CITY CODE
of
LEHI CITY, UTAH
2015
Code current through:
Ord. 49-2024, passed 8-13-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Lehi City, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 49-2024, passed August 13, 2024. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ORDINANCE NO. 05-2024
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING ADMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER 12.24 – CITY CEMETERY
 
   WHEREAS, in order to enhance the efficient operation of the Lehi City
Cemetery, city staff is proposing amendments to Chapter 12.24 – City Cemetery;
and
 
   WHEREAS, on February 13, 2024, the Municipal Council held duly noticed
public meetings to receive public comment and ascertain the facts regarding
this matter, which facts and comments are found in the hearing record; and,
 
WHEREAS, after considering the facts and comments presented to the Municipal
Council, the Council finds: (i) Lehi City Code Chapter 12.24 should be amended
as shown on the attached Exhibit “A”; and (ii) such action furthers the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of Lehi.
 
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Lehi City, Utah, as
follows:
 
PART I:
 
Current Chapter 12.24 is hereby amended as shown in Exhibit “A”.
 
PART II:
 
A.   If a provision of this Ordinance 05-2023 conflicts with a provision of a
previously adopted ordinance concerning the same title, chapter, and/or section
number amended herein, the provision in this Ordinance shall prevail.
 
B.   This ordinance and its various section, clauses and paragraphs are hereby
declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, clause or phrase is adjudged
to be unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
 
C.   The Municipal Council hereby directs that the official copy of the Lehi
City Code be updated to reflect the provisions enacted by this Ordinance.
 
D.   This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after being posted or
published as required by law.
 
 
Approved and adopted by the Lehi City Council this 13th day of February, 2024.
 
 
 
_______________________________
Mark Johnson, Mayor
 
 
Attest:
 
 
 
______________________________
Teisha Wilson, City Recorder
 
 
EXHIBIT “A”
 
Chapter 12.24
CITY CEMETERY
12.24.010: PURPOSE:
12.24.020: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
12.24.030: DEFINITIONS:
12.24.040: OWNERSHIP AND CERTIFICATES:
12.24.050: PROCEDURES:
12.24.060: FUNERAL AND INTERMENT:
12.24.070: RULES AND LANDSCAPING:
12.24.080: MARKERS AND MONUMENTS:
12.24.090: DECORATING GRAVESITES AND OTHER REGULATIONS:
12.24.100: INFANT CEMETERY:
12.24.010: PURPOSE:

The purpose of the cemetery is to provide an affordable, peaceful and well
maintained permanent resting place and memorial for the deceased. (Ord. 11-
2012, 4-24-2012)
 
12.24.020: GENERAL PROVISIONS:

The cemetery is owned by the city, and shall be operated and maintained by the
city parks department. Cemetery records shall be maintained by the city. (Ord.
11-2012, 4-24-2012)
 
12.24.030: DEFINITIONS:

BODY: The remains of one human body (cremated or otherwise) or the remains of a
mother and such mother's infant child.

CEMETERY: The real property owned by Lehi City, used and reserved for interment
of the dead.

CERTIFICATE FEE: The fee charged by the city for issuing a duplicate
certificate or by transferring certificate or transferring interment rights,
adding names or documents to the certificate records, as set forth therein.

CITY: Lehi City Corporation.

DISINTERMENT: The opening or excavation of an existing space.

FEE SCHEDULE: The current Lehi City fee schedule as adopted and amended by the
Lehi City council.

INFANT: A fetus or a child up to two (2) years of age whose remains will fit
into ½ the normal sized space in a combination casket vault that is less than
five (5) feet wide by five (5) feet long.
 
INFANT CEMETERY: The section of the Cemetery reserved for the burial of infants

INTERMENT OR INTER: The burial of a body into a space.

LOT: An area containing eight (8) spaces.

NONRESIDENT: Any person who is not a resident of Lehi City.

RESIDENT: Any person who is a legal resident of Lehi City.

SPACE: A legal and authorized gravesite generally measuring five feet by ten
feet (5' x 10') and intended for interment.

TRANSFER: To sell, donate, exchange, trade or convey a space. (Ord. 11-2012, 4-
24-2012)
 
12.24.040: OWNERSHIP AND CERTIFICATES:
 
A. Rights Of Ownership: In accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 8-5-7,
the city shall sell only the right to be interred in the city cemetery. The
purchase of interment rights in any lot or space as evidenced by a certificate
of interment rights shall provide only the right to be interred in the
cemetery, and is not a deed to convey title to real property.
B. Purchase Of Spaces: Residents must provide evidence in a form acceptable to
the city that they are a resident of Lehi City. Residents and nonresidents may
purchase spaces in the cemetery for the current prices listed and as adopted by
the Lehi City council on the fee schedule. The purchaser may purchase spaces of
one to a maximum of eight (8). The purchase price for each space includes
perpetual care with no maintenance fee to be assessed, and must be paid for in
full at the time of purchase. There are no sale agreements or payment
arrangements. All spaces purchased for the resident rate shall be clearly
marked on the certificate to indicate that the owner paid the resident pricing
for the space. Absolutely no cemetery space will be held or reserved. Spaces
can be traded for other spaces, but the owner will be required to pay the
difference between the original cemetery space and the current published
cemetery space price. Purchaser is to list two (2) persons as beneficiary
recipients of their said spaces in the event that the purchaser is deceased and
has remaining spaces left.
C. Certificate Of Ownership: Owners of each space shall be issued a certificate
of interment rights which describes the location of the space within the
cemetery. The city shall retain a duplicate record of all certificates of
interment rights issued. City records shall be the official record or ownership
for all spaces. The certificate of interment rights shall include a statement
that uses of the space are subject to these rules.
D. Transfer Of Space: A certificate of interment rights for an unoccupied space
may be transferred by the owner of the space by: 1) presenting the original
deed or certificate; 2) completing a space transfer form; 3) paying the
certificate fee for each new certificate that is required by virtue of the
transfer; and 4) either appearing in person and producing photo identification
proving owner identity, or have the owner's signature on the space transfer
form notarized by a licensed notary. The transfer of certificates of interment
rights owned by deceased persons may be completed in accordance with the Utah
uniform probate code. If a deed or certificate cannot be located by an
individual or a family for presentation, the parks manager or his/her designee
may, with the authorization of the city administrator, make such arrangements
for transfer and/or burial as are equitable and appropriate considering all the
circumstances. If spaces are purchased at the resident rate and are transferred
to a nonresident who is not the space owner's spouse, parent, sibling, child,
grandchild or great grandchild, prior to a new certificate being issued, the
transferee must pay the difference between residential rate and nonresidential
rate at the time of transfer, and pay the certificate fee charge. For every
space transferred, a new certificate of interment rights shall be issued and
the old certificate shall be null and void and remitted with the transfer forms
and requests.
E. Duplicate Certificates Of Interment Rights: Duplicate certificates of
interment rights may be issued upon written request of owner and payment of the
certificate fee. Duplicate certificates of interment rights shall be clearly
marked with the words "duplicate certificate".
F. Abandonment And Forfeiture Of Space: The city council may terminate the
rights of owners of spaces in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 8-5-
1 et seq. (Ord. 11-2012, 4-24-2012)
12.24.050: PROCEDURES:
A. Caskets Or Coffins: No more than one body may be buried in any one space, or
two (2) infants, or a maximum of six (6) remains in any one space, upon
approval of the parks manager or his/her designee. Vertical stacking of
caskets, vaults, coffins or urns is not allowed. All bodies, remains or other
items buried with the body must be in a casket, coffin or urn. All caskets,
coffins or urns must be enclosed in a city approved concrete vault. The casket,
coffin or urn shall contain only the body or remains of the deceased, clothing
and jewelry, and other small personal items that fit therein.
B. Excavating Spaces: Authorized city personnel shall be responsible for the
excavation of gravesites. The parks manager or his/her designee may allow a
third party to excavate a gravesite. Authorization must be provided in writing.
C. Application: The city shall not open a space for interment, provide
interment services or disinterment services until the city has received a
completed application form for interment or disinterment, signed by a relative
of the deceased, ecclesiastical leader or licensed funeral director
representing the deceased, together with the fee as provided herein.
D. Proof Of Ownership: If the deceased is the sole owner of the space, the city
shall verify the identity of the deceased prior to interment. If the space is
owned by someone other than the deceased, written permission in a form
acceptable to the city from the owner of the certificate shall be required
prior to any interment.
E. Payment Of Fees: The fee to open and close a gravesite, as set forth on the
fee schedule, shall be paid prior to any interment or disinterment. Mortuaries
that collect opening and closing gravesite fee will be billed on a monthly
basis.
F. Additional Fees And Charges: Fees and costs in addition to those set forth
in the fee schedule may be charged for special circumstances requiring
additional city staff, equipment or resources. Such additional charges shall be
paid in full prior to any interment or disinterment.
G. Closing Of Gravesites: City personnel shall close any open gravesite
promptly after the casket or coffin is placed in the vault.
H. Disinterment Services: The city shall provide disinterment services only for
persons buried in a nonbiodegradable vault and in accordance with applicable
statutes, rules and regulations. (Ord. 11-2012, 4-24-2012)
12.24.060: FUNERAL AND INTERMENT:
 
A. Prohibited Days: The city will not provide interment or disinterment service
on the following days: Sundays, New Year's Day, Independence Day, Pioneer Day,
Labor Day, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
B. Hours Of Services: Graveside services or interments shall be conducted
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M.,
unless otherwise approved by the parks manager or his/her designee.
C. Length Of Services: Graveside services and/or interments shall not exceed
two (2) hours in length, unless authorization is provided by the parks manager
or his/her designee.
D. Funeral Processions: Upon entering the cemetery, all funeral processions
shall be under control and direction of the parks manager or his/her designee.
E. Gravesite Decorations: Any grave decoration, funeral design, flowers or
other items left at a gravesite are subject to be removed for maintenance
purposes. Removal of flowers, grave decoration, etc., will occur after seven
(7) days, or as soon thereafter as the weather will allow. (Ord. 11-2012, 4-24-
2012)
12.24.070: RULES AND LANDSCAPING:
A. Recreational Activity: No recreational or athletic activities are permitted
within the cemetery. Walking or jogging on designated roadways is allowed.
B. Noise: All visitors to the cemetery shall maintain reasonable levels of
noise to avoid disturbing other visitors and/or neighbors at the cemetery. Loud
music, shouting, yelling, barking dogs and all other loud noises are
prohibited.
C. Damage Or Removal Of Headstones Or Markers: It is unlawful to damage or
remove any headstone, tombstone or marker, or city property located in the Lehi
City Cemetery, or to desecrate any gravesite within the cemetery. Violators
will be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
D. Placement Of Markers, Headstones, Etc.: No placement of grave markers,
headstones, etc., shall occur without preauthorization by the parks manager or
his/her designee.
E. Animals: Domestic and companion animals are not allowed on cemetery property
unless properly restrained. Properly restrained animals shall not be allowed to
urinate or defecate on a gravesite, headstone, grave marker, etc. The owner of
a properly restrained animal is responsible to remove any fecal matter his/her
animal deposits on cemetery property.
F. Individual Landscaping: No private mowing or digging will be allowed within
the cemetery. Flowers may not be planted without permission of the parks
manager or his/her designee. No private individual shall plant any plant, tree,
shrub or bush. Any plant, tree, shrub or bush planted by a private individual
without permission from the parks manager or his/her designee will be removed
and disposed of.
G. Motor Vehicles: Motor vehicles shall remain on clearly designated roadways
within the cemetery, unless provided express consent by city personnel.
H. Visitation Hours: Cemetery hours shall be from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. daily, unless otherwise noted.
I. Signs And Advertisements: No unauthorized signs or advertisements shall be
displayed within the cemetery.
J. Traffic Ordinances: City traffic ordinances relative to the operation of
vehicles and conduct of pedestrians shall be in effect within the cemetery. The
speed limit within the cemetery shall be five (5) miles per hour.
K. Children: Children under the age of sixteen (16) years shall not be allowed
within the cemetery unless accompanied by a parent or a chaperone whom is at
least eighteen (18) years of age. Exceptions to this rule are allowed for
persons attending an authorized funeral service, placing of flowers on a
gravesite of a deceased relative or friend, or performing any other customary
respect or respectful actions consistent with the environment maintained within
the cemetery.
L. Surface Grade: No blocks, lots or spaces shall be raised above the
established grade.
M. Alcohol Or Tobacco: Consumption of alcohol beverages and smoking is not
allowed in the cemetery at any time. (Ord. 11-2012, 4-24-2012)
12.24.080: MARKERS AND MONUMENTS:
A. Fencing And Dividers: No space shall be defined by fences, railings, coping,
hedges, trees, shrubs, embarking depression or any other markers to describe
its corners or boundaries, unless approved by the parks manager or his/her
designee.
B. Headstones, Markers And Monuments: Raised headstones, markers and monuments
are allowed in the cemetery. The owners of the certificate of space or
relatives of interred persons in the cemetery are required to erect and
maintain in a manner satisfactory to the city, and at the expense of the space
certificate holder or relatives of deceased, a headstone or marker or other
suitable monument at the head of the gravesite with the name of the deceased
person inscribed thereon. All headstones, markers and monuments must be in an
orderly row and reasonably in line with all other such markers in that lot. On
a cremation, or space with more than one remains, one headstone for the entire
space is allowed, unless approval of the parks manager or his/her designee is
given.
C. Headstone, Marker And Monument Bases: All headstones, markers and monuments
shall have a stone or cement base, level with the ground, extending outward
from the perimeter of the base of the headstone or marker and shall be six
inches (6") on all sides, with a minimum thickness of four inches (4").
D. Specifications For Raised Headstone, Marker Or Monument:
1. For a single raised headstone, marker or monument, the width (side to side)
shall not exceed forty eight inches (48"), not including the six inch (6")
base. The height shall not exceed forty eight inches (48"), including the base
of the headstone, marker or monument. The depth shall not exceed twenty four
inches (24"), not including the base.
2. For a double raised headstone, marker or monument, the width (side to side)
of a raised double headstone, marker or monument shall not exceed seventy six
inches (76"), not including the six inch (6") base. The height and depth
specifications are the same as a single raised headstone, marker or monument.
3. For a single raised headstone, marker or monument in sections K, 14N, 15N,
17N, & 18N, the width (side to side) shall not exceed thirty inches (30”), not
including the six-inch (6”) base. The height shall not exceed forty-eight
inches (48”), including the base of the headstone, marker, or monument. The
depth shall not exceed twenty-four inches (24’) not including the base.
E. Specifications For Flat Markers: Flat markers shall not be smaller in
surface measurement than twelve inches by eighteen inches (12" x 18"), not
including the base and not larger than twenty one inches by forty two inches
(21" x 42"), not including the base.
F. Materials: All headstones, markers and monuments must be made of real
bronze, glazed granite or other permanent materials acceptable to the city and
designees. Headstones, markers and monuments shall not be made of wood,
sandstone or any other material which is susceptible to decay and/or erosion.
G. Vases: All permanent vases placed in the cement or the stone base of a
headstone, marker or monument shall be recessed to ground level when not in
use. Receptacles in the monument itself are allowed, provided they do not
project horizontally beyond the base of the monument, marker or headstone.
H. Permanent Gravesite Decorations: All permanent gravesite decorations must be
approved by the park manager or his/her designee. Shepherd hooks, works of art
and solar lights, if installed, must be placed in the cement or stone base of
the headstone, marker or monument. There must be holes for these items to be
placed and any damage to the base, headstone, marker or monument caused by
adding holes, or due to the holes, is the owner's responsibility. Shepherd
hooks, works of art and solar lights placed in bases, headstones, markers or
monuments cannot project horizontally beyond the base in any horizontal
direction. Shepherd hooks, works of art and solar lights placed in headstones,
markers or monuments shall not exceed seven feet (7') in height from the
ground.
I. Liability For Damage: The city is not liable for any damage to headstones,
markers or monuments, unless the damage is due to the city's negligent,
reckless or intentional conduct. (Ord. 11-2012, 4-24-2012)
12.24.090: DECORATING GRAVESITES AND OTHER REGULATIONS:
A. Removal Of Items: If the city removes grave decorations, funeral designs,
flowers or other items, then such items shall be retained for the period of two
(2) days before being discarded. The city shall not be liable for any items
that are discarded, damaged or destroyed. Grave decorations will be removed
weekly for normal maintenance, with the exception of the week of Memorial Day.
B. Theft Or Loss Of Personal Belongings: The city is not responsible for the
theft or loss of personal belongings within the cemetery.
C. Prohibited Interment Outside Cemetery: It shall be unlawful for any person
to inter human remains within the city limits, except in the Lehi City
Cemetery. (Ord. 11-2012, 4-24-2012)
12.24.100: INFANT CEMETERY:
A.   There is hereby created a section of the cemetery reserved for the burial
of Infants.
B.   Unless modified by provisions of this section 12.24.100, all other
provisions found in this Chapter 12.24 shall apply to the Infant Cemetery.
C.   Burial in the Infant Cemetery is only available to Infants as defined
above.
D.   No permanent gravesite decorations are allowed in the Infant Cemetery.
This includes, but is not limited to, shepherd hooks, works of art, and solar
lights.
E.   No permanent vases are allowed in the apron, cement, or the stone base of
a headstone.
F.   Purchase of burial spaces is on an as-needed basis for the burial of an
infant only. Spaces are available to residents and nonresidents for the prices
listed as adopted by the Lehi City Council on the most recent fiscal year fee
schedule. Residents must provide an acceptable form of proof of residency to
the City. The purchaser my purchase no more than one (1) space in a given
transaction. The purchaser will not be permitted to select a burial space;
instead, an authorized city representative will determine the order and
placement of burial.
G.   Transfer of spaces within the Infant Cemetery is not permitted.
H.   Raised headstones are not allowed in the Infant Cemetery. All headstones
must be flush with the ground.
I.   Flat markers shall be eight (8) inches by sixteen (16) inches, not
including the apron.
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO: 52-2025
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE LEHI CITY MUNICIPAL CODE CODE TITLE 7 CHAPTER 1 -
PARKING
 
WHEREAS, it has become necessary to amend Chapter 7 of the Lehi City Municipal
Code adding clarity to parking restrictions during winter months for the
purpose of snow removal; and
 
WHEREAS, restricting parking on public streets overnight for 5 months of a
calendar year (Nov 1 to Mar 30), a total of 150 days, is excessive in meeting
the City’s needs for snow removal; and
 
WHEREAS, this amendment seeks to decrease the overall amount of days that on-
street parking is restricted during winter months, while strengthening the code
to better facilitate snow removal to take place during and after snowstorms;
and
 
WHEREAS, enforcement of overnight parking for a 5-month period is burdensome on
police forces and this adjustment will allow police to better focus enforcement
efforts to periods during and after snowstorms; and
 
WHEREAS, Lehi City has grown into a large city and the current code tends to be
designed to meet the snow removal needs of a small city; and
 
WHEREAS, on August 26, 2025, the City Council held a duly noticed meeting to
receive public comment and ascertain the facts regarding this matter, which
facts and comments are found in the hearing record and which include the staff
report and minutes from the DRC meeting of July 30, 2025; and,
 
WHEREAS, after considering the facts and comments presented to the Municipal
Council, the Council finds: Chapter 7 of the Lehi City Municipal Code should be
amended; and such action furthers the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of Lehi.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Lehi City, Utah as
follows:
 
PART I:
 
Chapter 7 of the Lehi City Municipal Code is hereby amended as shown on Exhibit
A.
 
PART II:
 
A.   If a provision of this Ordinance #52-2025 conflicts with a provision of a
previously adopted ordinance concerning the same title, chapter, and/or section
number amended herein, the provision in this Ordinance shall prevail.
 
B.   This ordinance and its various sections, clauses and paragraphs are hereby
declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, clause or phrase is adjudged
to be unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
 
C.   The City Council hereby directs that the official copy of the Lehi City
Code be updated to reflect the provisions enacted by this Ordinance.
 
D.   This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after being posted or
published as required by law.
 
Approved and Adopted by the City Council of Lehi City this 26 th day of August
2025.
 
 
 
                     ATTEST
 
 
_____________________________         _______________________________
Mark Johnson, Mayor               Teisha Wilson, City Recorder
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 16-2025
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING LEHI CITY CODE TITLE 4 CHAPTER 1 (BUSINESS LICENSE
PROVISIONS GENERALLY)
 
   WHEREAS, the City desires to amend the provisions of Lehi City Code Title 4
Chapter 1 (Business License Provisions Generally);
 
   WHEREAS, on April 8, 2025, the City Council held a duly noticed public
meeting to ascertain the facts regarding this matter, which facts and comments
are found in the meeting record; and,
 
WHEREAS, after considering the facts and comments presented to the City
Council, the Council finds: (i) Title 4 Chapter 1 should be amended; and (ii)
such action furthers the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Lehi.
 
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Lehi City:
 
PART I:
 
A.   Title 4 Chapter 1 (Business License Provisions Generally) of the Lehi City
Code is hereby amended.
 
PART II:
 
   A.   If a provision of this Ordinance No. 16-2025 conflicts with a provision
of a previously adopted ordinance concerning the same title, chapter, and/or
section number amended herein, the provision in this Ordinance shall prevail.
 
   B.   This ordinance and its various section, clauses, and paragraphs are
hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, clause, or phrase is
adjudged to be unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder shall not be affected
thereby.
 
   C.   The City Council hereby directs that the official copy of the Lehi City
Code be updated to reflect the provisions enacted by this Ordinance.
 
   D.   This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after being posted or
published as required by law.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approved and Adopted by the City Council of Lehi City, Utah this 8th day of
April, 2025.
 
 
LEHI CITY                        ATTEST
 
_______________________________         __________________________________
Mark Johnson, Mayor                   Teisha Wilson, City Recorder
 
 
 
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS GENERALLY
SECTION:
4-1-1: License Required
4-1-2: Application; Issuance; Recordkeeping; Deposit
4-1-3: Fee For License
4-1-4: Content Of License; Nontransferable
4-1-5: Term; Fee Due And Payable; Remedy
4-1-6: Denial Suspension Or Revocation
4-1-7: Enforcement
4-1-8: Each Day a Separate Violation
4-1-9: Notice of Denial, Suspension, or Revocation
4-1-10: Administrative Hearing
4-1-11: Unlawful to Engage in Business after Revocation
4-1-12: Issuance of New License After Denial or Revocation – Waiting Period.
4-1-13: Penalty
4-1-14: License Not to Authorize Unlawful Activities
 
4-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a place of business within
the city without first obtaining the license required by this chapter. (1984
Code § 5.04.010; amd. 2015 Code)
 
4-1-2: APPLICATION; ISSUANCE; RECORDKEEPING; DEPOSIT:
All applications for licenses shall be made in writing to the city, and the
amount of the license fee shall be paid at the time of such application. All
licenses shall be issued by the city and signed by the mayor and city recorder,
and attested under the seal of the city. The city shall keep a record of the
licenses issued, stating the name of the person to whom the license is issued,
the kind of business licensed, together with the amount paid for such license.
All license fees shall be deposited with the city treasurer. (1984 Code §
5.04.020; amd. 2015 Code)
 
4-1-3: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Amount Fixed By City Council: The city council shall by resolution or
ordinance fix the amount of license fees and the terms and conditions thereof,
which shall be found in the consolidated fee schedule. (1984 Code § 5.04.040;
amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Evidence Of Liability: In any action brought under, or arising out of
the provisions of this title, the fact that a person represented himself as
engaged in any business for the transaction of which a license is by ordinance
required, or that such person exhibited a sign indicating such business, shall
be prima facie evidence of the liability of such person to pay for a license.
(1984 Code § 5.04.060; amd. 2015 Code)
 
4-1-4: CONTENT OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   Every license shall specify by name the person, firm or corporation to
whom the license is issued, and shall designate the address at which the
business shall be carried on.
   B.   No license granted or issued under the provisions of this title, or
otherwise, shall be in any manner assignable or transferable, or authorize any
person other than the person to whom the license is issued, to do business, or
authorize any other business than is indicated on the license; or the business
therein mentioned or named to be done or transacted at any other place than
therein mentioned or named. (1984 Code § 5.04.030; amd. 2015 Code)
 
4-1-5: TERM; FEE DUE AND PAYABLE; REMEDY:
 
A.    Term; Fee Due and Payable: All licenses issued shall be valid for a
twelve (12) month period. All license fees that are imposed by this chapter,
except the initial license fee, shall be due and payable the last day of the
month in which the license expires.
B.   Late Renewal Fee; Penalties: If any license renewal fee is not paid by the
due date, a penalty of thirty-five percent (35%) of the amount of such license
fee shall be added to the original amount thereof, and, if such amount is not
paid within forty-five (45) days of the due date, an additional penalty of
sixty-five percent (65%) shall be added to the original amount thereof for a
total of one hundred percent (100%) of such license fee.
C.   Any licensee whose license renewal fee is not paid within ninety (90) days
of the due date shall terminate business operations at the previously licensed
location. No business shall be conducted thereafter at said location unless and
until the City approves an application, notice or petition for renewal of a
license or for a new license.
D.   Solicitor, Temporary, and Mobile Food Truck business licenses must re-
apply each year for a business license.
 
 
4-1-6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
An application for a new business license, or for renewal of an existing
business license, may be denied, or an existing business license may be
suspended or revoked, for the following reasons:
The applicant or licensee, or his or her business, does not meet zoning or
other requirements set forth in this Code or the city Development Code;
B.   False or incomplete information was provided on a business license
application;
C.   The licensee or applicant has violated without full remediation, or is
violating, any provision of this title, or any other provision of the City
Code, state or federal statutes, or other regulations relating to or governing
the applicant's or licensee's business;
D.   The licensee has obtained, the applicant has attempted to obtain, or the
licensee or applicant has aided another Person to obtain, a license by fraud or
deceit;
E.   The applicant for a renewal, or licensee, has failed to pay Utah County ad
valorem property taxes and/or personal property taxes, or Lehi City utility
service charges, sales tax, or any other fee or fine owed to the City;
F.   The applicant or licensee has refused to allow authorized representatives
of the City and/or any other authorized agency to make a lawful inspection of
the business or has interfered with such representatives while in the lawful
performance of their duty in making such an inspection;
G.   The applicant or licensee fails to comply with a requirement or condition
established by i) the Planning Commission or Community Development Department,
if applicable; ii) under a conditional use permit issued by the land use
authority, if applicable; iii) the conditions of a variance or special
exception; or iv) by other agreement with the City;
H.   Violation of this chapter or title by the agents or employees of a
licensee or applicant, and violations of other laws by the agents or employees
of the applicant or licensee while acting as an agent or employee of the
licensee or applicant; or any other reason expressly provided for in this
chapter.
 
4-1-7 ENFORCEMENT:
A.   The Mayor, or his designee as the Business License Official (Official),
shall have the authority, without a hearing, to deny an application for a new
business license for any reason provided for in this Chapter.
B.   The Official shall have the authority to deny an application for renewal
of an existing business license or to suspend or revoke a business license,
without a hearing, for any reason provided for in this Chapter. A denial,
suspension, or revocation by the business license official shall become
effective upon service of written notice to the business licensee or their
representative or delivered to the place of business and is subject to a review
hearing by the City Council.
C.   The Official shall have the authority, on his or her own initiative or in
response to complaints from the public or any City department, to investigate
and gather evidence of violations of this Code or other circumstances which may
give rise to a denial, suspension, or revocation of a license. Upon a finding
that one of the conditions described in this Chapter for denial of an
application or suspension or revocation of license exists, the Official may
deny an application, or suspend or revoke a license.
 
4-1-8  EACH DAY A SEPARATE VIOLATION:
A.   Unless otherwise specified, a Person convicted of violating any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor punishable by a fine,
imprisonment, or both as allowed by state law.
B.   Each day that a violation of this chapter occurs is deemed to constitute a
separate offense.
 
4-1-9 NOTICE OF DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION:
Upon a denial of a business license application, or suspension, or revocation
of a business license, the Official shall provide written notice of his or her
decision to deny an application or suspend or revoke a license to the applicant
or license holder, by personal service or regular mail, at the address listed
on the business license application or license. Such notice shall include the
reasons for the denial, suspension, or revocation and any accompanying
documentation relating to the business license official's decision to deny an
application or suspend or revoke business license. Such notice shall also
include a description, if applicable, of the applicant's or licensee's right to
appeal the decision of the business license official. Notice shall be deemed
served as follows:
A.   Personal service is deemed served on the day of service; and
B.   Service by mail is deemed served three (3) calendar days after the notice
is deposited in the United States mail.
 
4-1-10 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
A.   Any Person adversely affected by a decision of the Official or any other
City official made pursuant to this Title, shall have the right to request
RW1CC2an administrative hearing before the City Council at the next scheduled
City Council meeting.
 
B.   The licensee shall have the right to appear and respond to any allegations
made and to present reasons why the application should not have been denied, or
the license should not remain suspended or revoked.
 
C.    The hearing shall be conducted informally. Formal rules of evidence and
court procedure shall not apply. Hearsay evidence is admissible but must have
some probative weight and reliability to be considered. The standard of proof
shall be a preponderance of the evidence.
 
D.   The City Council shall have the authority to modify any sanction imposed
by the Official if it appears from the evidence presented that the sanction is
not warranted.
E.   If the City Council upholds a decision by the Official to suspend a
license, the City Council may impose graduated sanctions upon businesses that
fail to comply with the conditions of their suspension. The laws and ordinances
of Lehi City, the state of Utah, and the United States shall be controlling in
all appeals.
F.   The City Council shall not have the authority to waive compliance with any
of the applicable provisions of the business license ordinance, nor shall the
City Council extend deadlines set forth in such ordinances or change the
substance or form of such ordinances.
G.   The City Council shall make a ruling and decision based upon the evidence
presented at the hearing and shall enter a written decision and may impose or
limit sanctions as it deems proper based upon the evidence presented. In the
event the City Council upholds a sanction of suspension, the City Council may
impose conditions that the licensee must meet before the suspension is lifted.
If a license revocation or suspension is upheld, the sanction shall apply to
the licensee and to the business at the premises in question for the full term
of the imposed sanction. The order or decision entered by the City Council
shall be final.
The licensee may appeal the decision or order of the city council to a court of
competent jurisdiction within thirty (30) daysRW3CC4.
 
4-1-6-11 UNLAWFUL TO ENGAGE IN BUSINESS AFTER REVOCATION:
If any license is suspended, revoked or an application for a license is denied
as provided in this Title, it shall thereafter be unlawful for any person to
open, operate, maintain, manage, or conduct any business, trade, profession, or
calling for which a license is required at the premises where the license was
suspended, revoked or the application denied until the suspension period has
run, or a new license is granted by the City.
4-1-6-12 ISSUANCE OF NEW LICENSE AFTER DENIAL OR REVOCATION—WAITING PERIOD:
No person whose application for a business license has been denied, or whose
license has been revoked, and no person associated or connected with such a
Person in the conduct of his business, shall be allowed to reapply or to be
granted a new license for a period of at least six (6) months after such denial
or revocation.
 
 
4-1-13: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor. (2015 Code)
 
4-1-14 LICENSE NOT TO AUTHORIZE UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
A business license issued in conflict with the laws or ordinances of the state
of Utah or Lehi City is void. A valid business license does not authorize a
lawful business to be conducted in an unlawful manner.
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 30-2021
AN ORDINANCE OF THE LEHI CITY COUNCIL AMENDING LEHI CITY
CODE SECTION 1-6-4, COMPENSATION SCHEDULE FOR MAYOR
 
WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. 10-3-818 requires “the elective and statutory officers
of municipalities receive such compensation for their services as the governing
body may fix by ordinance adopting compensation or compensation schedules
enacted after public hearing”; and,
 
WHEREAS, the Council finds that Section 1-6-4 should be amended to increase the
mayor’s compensation;
WHEREAS, on July 27, 2021, the City Council held a duly noticed public hearing
to ascertain the facts regarding this matter, which facts and comments are
found in the meeting record; and,
WHEREAS, after considering the facts and comments presented to the City
Council, the Council finds: (i) Section 1-6-4 should be amended to increase the
mayor’s compensation; ii) such action furthers the health, safety and welfare
of the citizens of Lehi.
NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Lehi City:
PART I:
A. Section 1-6-4(A) of the Lehi City Code is hereby amended as follows:
Section 1-6-4:   COMPENSATION SCHEDULE:
A.   Compensation for the Mayor shall be set at $50,000.00 per year.
Additionally, the Mayor and the Mayor’s dependents shall be entitled to
coverage under the City’s medical, dental, and life insurance program to be
paid by the City, or alternatively, at the Mayor’s election, to have a sum
equal to one-half of the monthly premium amount, contributed to a 401(k)
retirement account.
PART II:
   A.   If a provision of this Ordinance No. 30-2021 conflicts with a provision
of a previously adopted ordinance concerning the same title, chapter, and/or
section number amended herein, the provision in this Ordinance shall prevail.
   B.   This ordinance and its various section, clauses, and paragraphs are
hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, clause, or phrase is
adjudged to be unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder shall not be affected
thereby.
   C.   The City Council hereby directs that the official copy of the Lehi City
Code be updated to reflect the provisions enacted by this Ordinance.
   D.   This Ordinance shall take effect beginning January 1, 2022.
   Approved and Adopted by the City Council of Lehi City, Utah this 27th day of
July, 2021.
 
 
____________________________________
Mark Johnson, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
________________________________
Teisha Wilson, City Recorder
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 37-2021
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 6 CHAPTER 1 SECTION 8
(RAPID ENTRY KEY BOX)
 
   WHEREAS, Lehi City Code Section 6-1-8 requires the installation of a rapid
entry key box to allow entry into structures for fire and/or life safety
purposes;
 
   WHEREAS, the Lehi City Fire Department desires to make technical updates to
the requirements of Section 6-1-8;
 
   WHEREAS, on September 14, 2021, the City Council held a duly noticed public
meeting to ascertain the facts regarding this matter, which facts and comments
are found in the meeting record; and,
 
WHEREAS, after considering the facts and comments presented to the City
Council, the Council finds: (i) Section 6-1-8 should be amended; and (ii) such
action furthers the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Lehi.
 
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Lehi City:
 
PART I:
 
A.   Section 6-1-8 is hereby amended as shown on Exhibit “A”.
 
PART II:
 
   A.   If a provision of this Ordinance No. ??-2021 conflicts with a provision
of a previously adopted ordinance concerning the same title, chapter, and/or
section number amended herein, the provision in this Ordinance shall prevail.
 
   B.   This ordinance and its various section, clauses, and paragraphs are
hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, clause, or phrase is
adjudged to be unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder shall not be affected
thereby.
 
   C.   The City Council hereby directs that the official copy of the Lehi City
Code be updated to reflect the provisions enacted by this Ordinance.
 
   D.   This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after being posted or
published as required by law.
   
 
 
Approved and Adopted by the City Council of Lehi City, Utah this 14 th day of
September, 2021.
 
 
LEHI CITY                     ATTEST
 
_______________________________         __________________________________
Mark Johnson, Mayor                   Teisha Wilson, City Recorder
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit “A”
 
 
6-1-8: RAPID ENTRY KEY BOX:
    A.   Applicability:
       1.   Lehi City uses the knox box brand of lockbox, security padlocks,
gate switches and fire department connection/standpipe caps and plugs to allow
entry to structures for fire and/or life safety purposes.
       2.   The following structures shall be equipped with a knox box brand
lockbox with the eLock core, knox connection caps and/or knox plugs prior to
issuance of the certificate of occupancy:
          a.   Any commercial or industrial structure protected by an automatic
suppression system (sprinkler or standpipe);
          b.   Any commercial or industrial structure protected by an automatic
fire alarm system having a connection to a central monitoring station facility;
          c.   Any commercial or industrial structure that has a type 1 hood
used for cooking purposes.
          d.   Any multi-family residential structure that possesses a common
corridor for access to living units that also restricts building access by
locking building entryway doors and/or has a common utility room for sprinkler
or fire alarm appliances.
          e.   Any facility that is required to prepare and have readily
available material safety data sheets and/or hazardous chemical inventory as
per federal and state codes.
          f.   Other properties or structures where fire department access
would be delayed as determined by the Lehi City fire marshal.
       3.   All commercial buildings under construction must provide a
temporary knox box for emergency access before construction begins.
       4.   Any commercial or industrial structure with an external audible
fire alarm and/or complex with perimeter fencing which limits emergency vehicle
access is required to provide a lockbox, gate switch or knox padlock.
       5.   The fire chief shall be authorized to implement rules and
regulations for the use of the knox box system.
    B.   Installation; Accountability:
       1.   Application for a knox box shall be obtained from the fire marshal.
       2.   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a knox box is
responsible for installation of the knox box.
       3.   The knox box shall be installed at a location as approved by the
fire marshal.
       4.   The size of the knox box that is required to be installed will be
determined by the number of keys or units that the box will support at the
property location as approved by the fire marshal.
       5.   More than one knox box may be required to be installed as per the
building size or complexity as per the fire marshal.
       6.   A knox box tamper switch connected to the building's fire alarm
system may be required.
    C.   Contents Of Lock Box:
       1.   The contents of the knox box shall include the following:
          a.   Grand master and/or keyless entry key/keys to locked points of
ingress or egress, whether on the interior or exterior of such buildings. One
grand master and or keyless entry key/keys per floor is/are required, up to
five (5) floors.
          b.   Keys to all mechanical rooms.
          c.   Keys to all locked electrical rooms.
          d.   Keys to elevators and their control rooms.
          e.   Keys to fire alarm panels.
          f.   Keys to reset pull stations or other fire protective devices.
          g.   Keys to any other areas as requested by the fire marshal.
          h.   A card containing the names and telephone numbers of emergency
contact people for such buildings or any code numbers associated with their
fire protection systems. These contact persons must be available on a twenty
four (24) hour basis.
    D.   Maintenance:
       1.   The operator of the building shall immediately notify the Lehi City
fire department and provide the new keys when a lock is changed or rekeyed. The
key to such lock shall be secured in the knox box by fire department personnel.
       2.   The operator of the building shall be responsible for the knox box
to be in proper working condition and to replace or make repairs as may be
necessary.
    E.   Temporary Key Lock Box During Times Of Construction:
       1.   Before any work is started on any building or property complex that
would require the installation of a rapid entry knox box or knox padlock, it
shall be the responsibility of its owner or operator to apply for a knox box or
knox padlock.
       2.   The temporary knox box must be mounted and keys installed prior to
securing the site or building in a location approved by the fire marshal.
    F.   Penalties For Violation Of Ordinance: Any violation of this section by
any owner or operator is hereby declared to be a class C misdemeanor. Each day
that such violation shall continue after notification shall be considered a
separate violation. (Ord. 37-2015, 7-28-2015)
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 54-2021
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 1 CHAPTER 9 SECTION 4
(CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS)
 
   WHEREAS, currently Lehi City Code Section 1-9-4 requires candidates for
municipal offices to comply with state campaign finance disclosures of Utah
Code Section 10-3-208;
 
   WHEREAS, deadlines in Utah Code Section 10-3-208 do not take into account
the timing of the dissemination of mail-in ballots;
 
WHEREAS, Utah Code Section 10-3-208(3)(a)(ii) allows a municipality by
ordinance to “require greater disclosure of campaign contributions and
expenditures than is required in this section”;
 
   WHEREAS, in order to provide timely campaign financial disclosure
information to voters for consideration with the use and return of mail in
ballots, Lehi City Code Section 1-9-4 should be amended to require an
additional campaign finance disclosure requirement;
 
   WHEREAS, on September 28, 2021 and October 26, 2021; the City Council held a
duly noticed public meeting to ascertain the facts regarding this matter, which
facts and comments are found in the meeting record; and,
 
WHEREAS, after considering the facts and comments presented to the City
Council, the Council finds: (i) Lehi City Code Section 1-9-4 should be amended;
and (ii) such action furthers the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
Lehi.
 
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Lehi City:
 
PART I:
 
A.   Section 1-9-4 is hereby amended as shown on Exhibit “A”.
 
PART II:
 
   A.   If a provision of this Ordinance No. 54-2021 conflicts with a provision
of a previously adopted ordinance concerning the same title, chapter, and/or
section number amended herein, the provision in this Ordinance shall prevail.
 
   B.   This ordinance and its various section, clauses, and paragraphs are
hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, clause, or phrase is
adjudged to be unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder shall not be affected
thereby.
 
   C.   The City Council hereby directs that the official copy of the Lehi City
Code be updated to reflect the provisions enacted by this Ordinance.
 
   D.   This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after being posted or
published as required by law.
   
 
 
Approved and Adopted by the City Council of Lehi City, Utah this 26 th day of
October, 2021.
 
 
LEHI CITY                     ATTEST
 
_______________________________         __________________________________
Mark Johnson, Mayor                   Teisha Wilson, City Recorder
 
 
 
 
Exhibit “A”
 
 
1-9-4: CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS:
 
In addition to complying with the campaign finance statement requirements of
Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-208, as amended, candidates for municipal
office shall file a campaign finance statement 28 days before the date of the
primary and general election. This additional campaign finance statement shall
include, up to the date of filing, the information required by Utah Code
Annotated section 10-3-208(4) and shall also include: (i) the disclosure of
anything of value provided by a person or entity for the political benefit of a
candidate that was not authorized by or coordinated with the candidate and of
which the candidate has actual knowledge; and (ii) the identity, if known, of
the person or entity by whom it was provided. (2015 Code)
 
 
ORDINANCE NO: 60-2021
 
 
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING THE PARKS, ARTS, RECREATION AND CULTURE SALES AND USE TAX
(“PARC” TAX)
 
WHEREAS, the State of Utah empowers cities to impose a sales and use tax for
the purpose of enhancing public financial support of publicly owned and
operated recreation and zoological facilities, and botanical, cultural, and zoological organizations owned or operated by institutions or private nonprofit organizations.
 
WHEREAS, a sales and use tax pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-12-1402 may be
imposed if it is determined by the legislative body that a majority of the
city's registered voters voting on the imposition of the tax have voted in
favor of the imposition.
 
WHEREAS, the County Board of Canvassers has determined, and Lehi City Council
has certified, that a majority of the City's registered voters voting on the
imposition of the Parks, Arts, Recreation and Culture Sales and Use Tax have
voted in favor of the imposition.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS ORDAINED by the City Council of Lehi City, Utah, that the
Lehi City Code be amended as follows:
 
Title.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Parks, Arts, Recreation and Culture
Sales and Use Tax”.
 
Purpose.
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish, enact, impose, and levy a
Parks,
Arts, Recreation and Culture Sales and Use Tax in accordance with UTAH CODE ANN. §59-
12-
1401 et. seq. for the purpose of funding cultural arts facilities and organizations and recreational facilities in the City of Lehi.
 
Imposition-Amount.
There is levied for collection a sales and use tax at the rate of one-
tenth of one percent (.1%) on all transactions described in UTAH CODE ANN. §59-
12-103(1), as amended, that are located within the City of Lehi.
 
Distribution and Use of Revenue.
The revenue shall be distributed in accordance with UTAH CODE ANN. §59-12-
1403 and for the purpose of funding eligible cultural ai1s facilities
and organizations and recreational facilities in the City of Lehi, pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-
12-1401 et. seq.
 
Effective Date.
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall become effective at 12:01 a.m.
April 1,
2022.  For transactions subject to the Parks, Arts, Recreation and Culture Tax pursuant to
UTAH CODE ANN. §59-12-103(1) that are located within the City of Lehi, the
effective date shall be the first day of the first billing period on or after
April 1, 2022, if the billing period for the transaction begins before April 1,
2022. For catalogue sales (as defined by the Utah State Tax Commission) where
the amount of the tax due is computed on the basis of sales and use tax
rates  published in the catalogue, the tax shall begin June 1, 2022.
 
 
Duration.
The Parks, Arts, Recreation and Culture Sales and Use Tax shall be in effect for a period of ten
(10) years.
 
 
This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its passage and publication as prescribed by law.
 
Passed by the  Lehi City Council on this 16th day of November, 2021.
 
 
                     ATTEST
 
 
 
 
__________________________________ _______________________________
MARK JOHNSON, Mayor       Teisha Wilson, City Recorder
 
Ord 55-2021
Exhibit “A”
 
 
8-7-5: PROCEDURES:
 
    A.   Caskets Or Coffins: No more than one body may be buried in any one
space, or two (2) infants, or a maximum of four (4) cremains in any one space,
upon approval of the parks manager or his/her designee. Vertical stacking of
caskets, vaults, coffins or urns is not allowed. All bodies, remains or other
items buried with the body must be in a casket, coffin or urn. All caskets and
coffins must be enclosed in a city approved concrete vault. Urns and cremains
may be placed in a sealed nonbiodegradable container. The casket, coffin or urn
shall contain only the body or remains of the deceased, clothing and jewelry,
and other small personal items that fit therein.
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 51-2015
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AMENDMENTS TO THE LEHI CITY CODE
   WHEREAS, over time various provisions of the Lehi City Code (the "Code")
have become out of date, duplicative of Utah State Code, or in some instances,
in direct conflict with Utah State Code; and
   WHEREAS, in an effort to update the Code and to resolve issues of conflict
described above, revisions have been made to various sections and chapters of
the Code, including the deletion of entire sections where necessary; and
   WHEREAS, on March 3, 2015, April 14, 2015, June 2, 2015, and October 6,
2015, the Lehi City Council reviewed the proposed changes to the Code and on
October 13, 2015, the Lehi City Council held a duly-noticed public meeting to
receive public comment and ascertain the facts regarding this matter, which
facts and comments are found in the meeting record; and,
   WHEREAS, after considering the facts and comments presented to the Lehi City
Council, the Council finds: (i) the Lehi City Code should be amended as shown
on the attached Exhibit "A"; and (ii) such action furthers the health, safety
and welfare of the citizens of Lehi City.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Lehi City Council, as follows:
PART I:
The Lehi City Code is hereby amended as shown in Exhibit "A".
PART II:
   A.   If a provision of this Ordinance 51-2015 conflicts with a provision of
a previously adopted ordinance concerning the same title, chapter, and/or
section number amended herein, the provision in this Ordinance shall prevail.
   B.   This ordinance and its various section, clauses and paragraphs are
hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, clause or phrase is
adjudged to be unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder shall not be affected
thereby.
   C.   The Lehi City Council hereby directs that the official copy of the Lehi
City Code be updated to reflect the provisions enacted by this Ordinance.
   D.   This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after being posted or
published as required by law.
Approved and adopted by the Lehi City Council this 13th day of October, 2015.
                                                
Bert Wilson, Mayor
Attest:
                                                
Marilyn Banasky, City Recorder
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
LEHI CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Adoption
1-1-2: Title; Citation; Reference
1-1-3: Codification Authority
1-1-4: Reference Applies To All Amendments
1-1-5: Title, Chapter And Section Headings
1-1-6: Effective Date
1-1-1: ADOPTION:
Pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-707, there is
adopted the Lehi City municipal code, as compiled, edited and published by
Sterling Codifiers, Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. (1984 Code § 1.04.010; amd. 2015
Code)
1-1-2: TITLE; CITATION; REFERENCE:
This code shall be known as the LEHI CITY MUNICIPAL CODE and it shall be
sufficient to refer to said code as the "Lehi City municipal code" in any
prosecution for the violation of any provision thereof or in any proceeding at
law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to,
amending, correcting or repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an
addition to, amendment to, correction or repeal of this code. Further reference
may be had to the titles, chapters, sections and subsections of this code and
such references shall apply to that numbered title, chapter, section and
subsection as it appears in this code. (1984 Code § 1.04.020)
1-1-3: CODIFICATION AUTHORITY:
This code consists of all the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of
the administrative ordinances of Lehi City, Utah, codified pursuant to the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-707. (1984 Code § 1.04.030; amd.
2015 Code)
1-1-4: REFERENCE APPLIES TO ALL AMENDMENTS:
Whenever a reference is made to this code as the Lehi City municipal code, or
to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of Lehi City, Utah, the reference
shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, now or
hereafter made. (1984 Code § 1.04.050)
1-1-5: TITLE, CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS:
Title, chapter and section headings contained in this code shall not be deemed
to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent
of the provisions of any title, chapter or section of this code. (1984 Code §
1.04.060)
1-1-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This code shall become effective on the date the ordinance adopting this code
as the Lehi City municipal code shall become effective. (1984 Code § 1.04.090)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the city passed prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: subdivision
standards and specifications ordinance; master plan ordinance; tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2015 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2015 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2015 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the
general provision imposed by this code, the provision imposing the greater
restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      5.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      6.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      7.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      8.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred by title, such
as "recorder", "treasurer", "chief of police", etc., such reference shall be
construed as if followed by the words "of Lehi City".
      9.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   D.   Time: When any time is specified in this code, it shall mean standard
time, as distinguished from solar time, and the words "midnight" or "noon"
shall be taken to be twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight or twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon standard time.
   E.   Authority Construed: Words prohibiting anything being done, except in
accordance with a license or permit or authority from a board or officer, shall
be construed as giving such board or officer power to license or permit to
authorize such thing to be done. (1984 Code § 1.08.010; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance:
      1.   Criminal: The city council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum
class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a
term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the city
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   A municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors: A person who has been convicted
of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions:
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons: A person convicted of an offense may be sentenced to
pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations: A corporation, association, partnership, other
business entity or governmental instrumentality shall pay a fine for an offense
defined in this code for which no special corporate fine is specified. The fine
shall not exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2015 Code)
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this city shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified:
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this city when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions: Infractions are not classified.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: City Seal
1-5-1: CITY SEAL:
The seal heretofore being provided and used by and for the city is the
impression of which represents a beehive on a stand with flowers surrounding,
and bees circling around the hive, within the inner circle, with the words,
"Corporate Seal of Lehi City, State of Utah", and two (2) stars in the outer
circle thereof, near the margin, is declared to have been, and that it now is
and hereafter shall be, the corporate seal of the city.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d8c21609a391ea6560a5c1a72c37854e8b46f44e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1390.gif]
(1984 Code § 1.12.010)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Form Of Government
1-6-2: Mayor
1-6-3: City Council
1-6-3-1: Rules Of Order And Procedure
1-6-3-2: Electronic Meetings
1-6-3-3: Council Assignments And Mayor Pro Tempore
1-6-4: Compensation Schedule
1-6-1: FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The city shall operate under the six (6) member form of government, which
consists of six (6) council members, one of which is the mayor. Unless modified
by city ordinance, the powers and duties of the mayor and city council are as
described in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3b-101 et seq. (2015 Code)
1-6-2: MAYOR:
   A.   Removal: If the mayor, or any elected officer, at any time during the
term of office, shall move from the limits of this city, the office shall
thereby become vacant. (1984 Code § 2.04.030)
   B.   Hiring Of Full Time Employees: Further, the mayor shall, in the
capacity of executive officer of the city, have charge of all full time city
employees. The mayor shall hire such personnel from time to time as the need
arises and, in so doing, shall follow such rules, regulations and laws
established for such hiring. (1984 Code § 2.04.050; amd. Ord. 01-26-10.1, 3-9-
2010; Ord. 01-2012, 1-24-2012; 2015 Code)
   C.   Signing Ordinances, Contracts, Other Documents: The mayor shall sign
all ordinances, contracts, leases, deeds and other writings on the part of the
city, authorized by the city council or required by law, or any ordinance of
the city, except as otherwise specifically provided. (1984 Code § 2.04.110)
1-6-3: CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Meetings: Meetings of the city council shall be held on the second and
fourth Tuesdays of each month at the council chambers, Lehi City Civic Center,
153 North 100 East, Lehi City, Utah, convening at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., or
such other time as designated by ordinance of the city council.
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   The mayor or any two (2) council members may order the convening of
a special meeting of the city council. Each order convening a special meeting
of the city council shall:
         a.   Be entered in the minutes of the city council; and
         b.   Provide at least three (3) hours' notice of the special meeting.
      2.   The city recorder shall serve notice of the special meeting on each
council member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally
or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode.
      3.   The personal appearance by a council member at a special meeting of
the city council constitutes a waiver of the notice required under subsection
B2 of this section. (1984 Code § 2.08.020; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Holding Offices Created During Council Membership: No member of the
city council shall hold or be appointed to any office which shall have been
created, or the salary which shall have been increased while he was a member,
during the term for which he was elected, and for one year after the expiration
of such term. (1984 Code § 2.08.120; amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   Powers: The city council shall control the finances and property of the
corporation and shall pass all ordinances and rules, and make all regulations,
not repugnant to law, necessary for carrying into effect or charging all powers
and duties conferred by law and such as are necessary to provide for the
safety, and preserve the health, and promote the prosperity, improve the
morals, peace and good order, comfort and convenience of the city and the
inhabitants thereof, and for the protection of property therein; and to enforce
obedience to such ordinances with such fines or penalties as the city council
may deem proper; provided, that the punishment of any offense shall comply with
the authority granted by Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-703. (1984 Code §
2.08.130; amd. 2015 Code)
1-6-3-1: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Powers And Conduct:
      1.   Authority:
         a.   These rules are adopted to expedite and facilitate the
transaction of the business of the city council in an orderly fashion and shall
be deemed to be procedural only, and the failure to strictly observe any such
rules shall not affect the jurisdiction of, or invalidate any action taken by,
the city council.
         b.   These council rules and procedures shall be reviewed within two
(2) months after newly elected officials are sworn in, every two (2) years.
         c.   No rule or procedure within this document is valid that would
remove or limit the powers and responsibilities given to the city council by
state or federal law.
      2.   Code Of Conduct:
         a.   Lehi City's current form of government is a six (6) member
council with the mayor presiding as the chairperson of the council. Each member
of the group has only one vote, with the mayor voting only in the event of a
tie vote, or in other circumstances dictated under state law. No one member of
the city council or the mayor can make decisions for the group nor should any
member of the group, knowingly or otherwise, give the perception to an
organization or individual citizen that they represent the full body of the
council without the council's vote and approval.
         b.   Council members must represent the interests of the citizens of
the city and should consider the interests of the citizens of the city as a
whole and vote accordingly.
         c.   Council members should not attempt to exercise individual
authority over the city, its employees, and its enterprises.
      3.   Adherence To Procedures: During city council discussions,
deliberations and proceedings, the mayor has been delegated the primary
responsibility to ensure the city council, staff and members of the public
adhere to the council's adopted procedures.
      4.   Procedure In Absence Of Rule: In the absence of a rule to govern a
point of procedure or rule, the mayor, as chair, or in his absence the mayor
pro tempore, shall temporarily rule on the issue until a meeting and discussion
of the full council can consider the issue. Only a vote made by the council may
override this decision.
   B.   Code Of Conduct:
      1.   City Council Members:
         a.   During city council meetings, city council members shall assist
in preserving order and decorum and shall, neither by conversation or
otherwise, delay or interrupt the proceedings.
         b.   A city council member desiring to speak shall address the chair
and, upon recognition by the chair, shall confine discussion to the question
under debate, avoid discussion of personalities and indecorous language, and
refrain from personal attacks and verbal abuse, sidebar discussions, or
political partisan rhetoric.
         c.   Except when a member of the administrative staff is giving a
presentation before the city council, a city council member desiring to
question the administrative staff shall address questions to the city
administrator, who shall be entitled either to answer the inquiries or to
designate some member of city staff for that purpose. City council members
shall not berate staff members, nor is it appropriate for anyone to berate the
mayor, council members or staff, in public meetings.
         d.   A city council member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted
while speaking unless called to order by the chair, unless a point of order is
raised by another member, or unless the speaker chooses to yield to questions
from another member if recognized by the chair.
         e.   City council members shall confine their questions to the
particular matters before the council and in debate shall confine their remarks
to the issues before the city council.
         f.   When there is more than one speaker on the same subject, city
council members will delay their comments until after all speakers on the
subject have been heard.
      2.   Administrative Staff:
         a.   Members of the administrative staff and employees of the city
shall observe the same rules, procedures and decorum applicable to members of
the city council.
         b.   Although the chair has the authority to preserve decorum in
meetings, the city administrator, or designee, is also responsible for the
orderly conduct and decorum of all city employees under the city
administrator's direction and control.
         c.   The city administrator, or designee, shall take such disciplinary
action as may be necessary against city employees acting within their scope of
employment to ensure that decorum is preserved at all times in city council
meetings.
         d.   All persons addressing the city council, including the city
administrator, other staff members, or members of the public, shall be
recognized by the chair and shall limit their remarks to the matter under
discussion and, if applicable, to the time limit given by the chair.
      3.   Citizens And Other Visitors:
         a.   Everyone attending the meeting will refrain from private
conversations while the city council is in session.
         b.   Citizens and other visitors attending city council meetings shall
observe the same rules of propriety, decorum and good conduct applicable to
members of the city council. Any person making personal, impertinent, profane
or slanderous remarks or who becomes boisterous while addressing the city
council or while attending the city council meeting shall be removed from the
room if the police chief, or his designee, is so directed by the chair, and the
person shall be barred from further audience before the city council during
that session of the city council. If the chair fails to act, any member of the
city council may move to require enforcement of the rules, and the affirmative
vote of a majority of the city council shall require the chair to act. In
addition to removal, violations of this rule may be subject to criminal
penalties as described in subsection H of this section.
         c.   Unauthorized remarks from the audience, stamping of feet,
whistles, yells, and similar demonstrations shall not be permitted by the
chair, who may direct the police chief, or his designee, to remove offenders
from the room. Aggravated cases shall be prosecuted on appropriate complaint
signed by the chair. In case the chair shall fail to act, any member of the
city council may move to require enforcement of the rules, and the affirmative
vote of the majority of the city council shall require the chair to act. In
addition to removal, violations of this rule may be subject to criminal
penalties as described in subsection H of this section.
         d.   No placards, banners, or signs will be permitted in the city
council chamber or in any other room in which the city council is meeting.
However, exhibits, displays, and visual aids used in connection with
presentations to the city council are permitted. Those used for presentations
on specific agenda items must be reviewed by staff in advance of the meeting.
      4.   Enforcement: The city police chief, or his designee, as chief law
enforcement officer, shall be present at council meetings unless excused by the
mayor, and shall act as sergeant at arms for the city council and shall furnish
whatever assistance is needed to enforce the rules of the city council.
   C.   Duties And Privileges Of Members:
      1.   Right Of Floor: A city council member who desires to speak must
first be recognized by the chair. No member shall address the chair or demand
the floor while a vote is being taken.
      2.   Demand For Roll Call: Upon demand of any member for roll call vote,
made before the result is announced, the roll shall be called for yes and no
votes upon any question before the city council. The demand for roll call shall
not be used as a means for members to explain their vote during the roll call.
      3.   Dissents And Protests: Any member shall have the right to express
dissent from or protest against any ordinance, resolution or other action of
the city council and shall have the reason for the dissent or protest entered
in the minutes.
      4.   Excusal From Attendance: City council members are expected to attend
meetings and stay in attendance during each meeting. No member shall be excused
from attendance at a city council meeting except for good and valid reasons.
The chair shall excuse members from a meeting when a good and valid reason is
presented.
   D.   Chair And Duties:
      1.   Chair: The mayor, if present, shall preside as chair at all meetings
of the city council. In the absence of the mayor, the mayor pro tempore shall
preside. In the absence of both the mayor and mayor pro tempore, the council
shall elect a chair.
      2.   Call To Order: The meetings of the city council shall be called to
order by the mayor or, in the mayor's absence, by the mayor pro tempore or, in
the mayor pro tempore's absence, by the appointed chair.
      3.   Preservation Of Order: The chair shall preserve order and decorum by
enforcing proper compliance with these rules, and confining members in debate
to the question under discussion. The chair may call upon the sergeant at arms
as necessary to maintain proper decorum in the council chambers.
      4.   Questions To Be Stated: The chair shall state all questions
submitted for a vote and announce the result. A roll call vote shall be taken
when requested by a member in accordance with subsection C2 of this section and
when required by state law.
      5.   Call For Recess: The chair may call for a recess at appropriate
points in the meeting agenda.
   E.   Order Of Business:
      1.   Agenda:
         a.   Preparation And Distribution: A written agenda for each regular
meeting shall be prepared under the direction of the mayor with assistance from
the city administrator. The order of business of each meeting shall be as
contained in the agenda, prepared as follows:
            (1)   The agenda shall be a listing by topic of subjects to be
considered by the city council, and shall be delivered to members of the city
council in advance of each meeting as early as practicable.
            (2)   In the event any member of the city council desires to add an
item or items to any prepared agenda, a city council member must obtain consent
from the mayor or one additional city council member. Upon receiving the
request from the mayor or one additional city council member, the item shall be
added to prepared agendas as requested. Once posted, amendments may be made to
the agenda in the same manner, up to twenty four (24) hours prior to the
meeting or as prescribed by state law. City council members desiring to
introduce items that may require substantial research, preparation and review
by administrative staff must first place the item on a precouncil meeting
agenda. After being presented, a majority vote of the city council is required
to move the item forward and direct staff to do the necessary research and to
prepare documents for consideration at a regular city council meeting.
         b.   Briefing; Precouncil Meetings:
            (1)   Prior to all regularly scheduled meetings, the city council
may hold a precouncil meeting. At a precouncil meeting, brief presentations to
the city council may be made and the mayor will review the agenda for the
regular council meeting. As described in subsection E1a(2) of this section,
items which require the dedication of substantial staff resources are required
to be placed on a precouncil meeting agenda for approval by a majority of the
city council before the item may proceed.
            (2)   It shall be the practice of the city council not to conduct a
final vote on an item during precouncil meeting unless necessary where time is
of the essence to advance the work of the city.
      2.   Citizen Speakers (Open Communications): At city council meetings, a
person may address the city council concerning any item, or may present a
subject for the city council's consideration during the open communication
periods, in accordance with the following rules:
         a.   Rules: In order that the city council may properly consider each
matter brought before them by citizens, speakers are asked to observe the
following rules:
            (1)   Only one person may approach the microphone at any one time
unless approved by the chair, and only the person at the microphone will be
allowed to speak. Speakers must clearly identify themselves at the beginning of
any comments.
            (2)   In an effort to reduce replication and to save time, pooling
of speakers is encouraged wherein one person may speak for and on behalf of a
group of individuals. Nothing in the foregoing precludes submission of comments
to the city council in writing, for such action or nonaction as the council, in
its discretion, may deem appropriate.
            (3)   Speakers shall address their comments to the governing body.
            (4)   Speakers may file copies of their remarks or supporting
information with the city recorder, or designee. The city recorder will make
the information available to the city council and city administrator if
requested.
            (5)   A person who addresses the city council during a public
hearing must limit remarks to the specific subject matter being considered by
the city council in that public hearing.
         b.   Time Limits On Items: The length of time a person will be allowed
to speak on items at city council meetings will be determined according to the
following rules:
            (1)   Speakers will have approximately three (3) minutes to speak
regardless of the number of items they wish to address unless the mayor grants
longer periods of time. The mayor may also shorten the amount of time if there
are high numbers of individuals wishing to speak. The mayor may determine the
order in which speakers are called. The order in which speakers are called is
not required to be in the order items appear on the agenda, nor are all
speakers on a particular item required to be called at the same time.
         c.   Debate: Council members will refrain from debate on any item
during the time allotted to speakers unless a specific time is granted by the
chair.
      3.   Oral Presentations: Matters requiring the city council's attention
or action may be presented orally by the mayor or city administrator. If
matters have developed since the deadline for delivery of the agenda, the
mayor, city administrator, or any city council member, may make an oral report
to the city council; but formal action, if required, shall be delayed until the
next meeting, unless said matter is deemed an emergency and immediate action is
required and approval of the action complies with state law.
      4.   Public Hearings:
         a.   The mayor shall schedule public hearings on the city council's
agenda in accordance with state law.
         b.   The city council may schedule public hearings at times other than
its regular meetings when they determine the matter to be heard is a
significant issue that requires more time than is available at regular
meetings. The mayor may call an advertised public hearing at a specified time
on any matter.
   F.   Votes Required: Approval of every ordinance, resolution or motion shall
require on final passage the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum
present unless state law imposes other voting requirements on various
questions.
   G.   Complaints: Personal complaints, especially those of a derogatory
nature against any official or employee of the city shall not be discussed at a
council meeting. Citizens wishing to make such complaints shall be instructed
that the same should be first processed and handled through the mayor's office.
Then, if the citizen feels appropriate action has not been taken, it shall be
proper for the complaint to be communicated in writing to the members of the
council. The city attorney, or designee, should be consulted regarding
confidentiality, rights to privacy and other legal concerns. (Ord. 35-2015, 7-
14-2015)
   H.   Penalty: Wilful or intentional disruption of a city council meeting is
declared to be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 35-2015, 7-14-2015; amd. 2015 Code)
1-6-3-2: ELECTRONIC MEETINGS:
   A.   Authorized: Any public body of the city may, by following the
procedures and requirements of this section and those outlined by state law,
convene and conduct an electronic meeting.
   B.   Definitions:
   ANCHOR LOCATION: The physical location where a public meeting is held and
from which the electronic meeting originates or from which the participant(s)
is/are connected.
   ELECTRONIC MEETING: A Lehi City meeting convened or conducted by means of a
telephonic, telecommunications or computer conference.
   ELECTRONIC NOTICE: Electronic mail or fax.
   MONITOR: To hear live, by speaker or by other equipment, all of the public
statements of each member of the public body who is participating in a meeting;
or see, by computer screen or other visual medium, all public statements of
each member of the public body who is participating in a meeting.
   PARTICIPATE: The ability to communicate with all of the members of the
public body, either verbally or electronically, so that each member of the
public body can hear or see the communication.
   PUBLIC BODY: The city council or other official city body or commission that
is created by city ordinance or resolution and consists of two (2) or more
persons and expends, disburses or is supported by tax revenue and is vested
with the authority to make decisions regarding the public's business.
   PUBLIC HEARING: A meeting at which comments from the public will be
accepted. At public meetings, participation of the public is through
observation/listening with public input being provided during any approved
period of the meeting agenda that has been designated for such participation.
   PUBLIC STATEMENT: A statement made in the ordinary course of business of the
public body with the intent that all other members of the public body receive
it.
   REMOTE LOCATION: Any place, other than the anchor location, where a member
is at, who participates in a telecommunications meeting.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS MEETING: A formal meeting of the city where one or more
members participates from a remote location via telephone, internet, television
or other telecommunication means now known or yet to be developed.
   C.   Procedures:
      1.   Same As For Nonelectronic Meeting: The meeting procedures to be
followed at the electronic meeting shall be the same as those followed by the
public body in a nonelectronic meeting.
      2.   Roll Call Method Used: A speakerphone, or similar amplifying
electronic device, will be connected in such a manner that comments made by the
members participating electronically will be broadcast through the public
address system at the anchor location. Full participation of each member
present and those participating electronically will be given to make inquiries
and participate in the discussion through a roll call method. Votes taken in
these circumstances shall be by roll call method, with each member audibly
verbalizing their vote in accordance with subsection C5 of this section.
      3.   Electronic Participants Considered Present: City elected and
appointed representatives and city staff shall be considered present as if the
individuals were physically on site and present. Any form of telephonic,
telecommunication, or computer assisted communication may be used, as long as
it allows for real time interaction in the way of discussions, questions and
answers, and voting.
      4.   Public Participation: Designated sites at which an electronic
meeting is held will be open to the public unless specifically closed to the
public under state law. Members of the public attending such a meeting may
provide input during any meeting designated for public participation. Space and
facilities will be provided at the anchor location so interested persons and
the public may attend, monitor and participate in the open portions of the
meeting.
      5.   Minutes To Record Participation: Minutes of the meeting shall record
the presence of members participating through electronic means. The roll call
for members present will be taken verbally and recorded.
      6.   Discussion Of Motions; Voting: Discussion of motions will take place
in accordance with usual procedures with the exception of those present
electronically must declare their intent verbally with their accompanying name
(s). All voting and consensus requests shall be made verbally and by roll call
when a voting participant is present electronically.
      7.   Public Notice: Public notice of the meeting shall be made in the
manner and within the time frame as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
52-4-202.
      8.   Premeeting Contact: Any member(s) participating from remote
locations shall make contact with the City fifteen (15) minutes prior to the
start of the meeting to ensure the equipment to be used is in proper working
order.
      9.   Quorum: Members participating via telecommunications are to be
considered present for purposes of establishing a quorum, as defined by law. In
the event of failure of equipment, or other factor, which causes a lack of
communication and thereby a lack of a quorum, no additional business may be
conducted until the quorum can be reconstituted. Continuances may be granted as
set forth by law. Business already conducted remains binding.
      10.   Location: Whenever a meeting is to be held with a member(s) via
telecommunications, the anchor location identified in all notices shall be the
City offices, 153 North 100 East, Lehi City, Utah County, Utah, or such other
location as determined by the Council in accordance with law. Public
participation is limited to the anchor location. Members participating via
telecommunications may do so from any location where access can be had and the
criteria of this subsection met.
      11.   Method: Any telecommunications method now known or hereafter
developed may be used to conduct a telecommunications meeting, so long as the
criteria set forth herein can be met. All persons at the anchor location shall
be required to have real time video and/or audio contact with member(s)
participating from remote locations, so as to know the entire discussion and
deliberations of the Council. Members participating from remote locations shall
have the obligation to use appropriate equipment or take other precautions to
eliminate static or other disturbances for the orderly conduct of the meeting.
If available, and not cost prohibitive, an audio and video feed is the
preferred method of conducting a telecommunications meeting. (Ord. 35-2015, 7-
14-2015)
1-6-3-3: COUNCIL ASSIGNMENTS AND MAYOR PRO TEMPORE:
   A.   Annual Meeting: On an annual basis, but at least on or before the
second City Council meeting in February, the City Council will meet and:
      1.   Elect a Mayor Pro Tempore from the body of elected Council members;
and
      2.   Discuss and may make assignments to each Council member that
promotes and enhances necessary representation and support for the citizens of
the City. (Ord. 35-2015, 7-14-2015)
1-6-4: COMPENSATION SCHEDULE:
   A.   Compensation for the Mayor shall be set at fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) per year. Additionally, the Mayor and the Mayor's dependents shall
be entitled to coverage under the city's medical, dental, and life insurance
program to be paid by the city, or alternatively, at the Mayor's election, to
have a sum equal to one-half of the monthly premium amount, contributed to a
401(k) retirement account.
   B.   Compensation for members of the City Council shall be set at one
thousand two hundred seventeen dollars ninety three cents ($1,217.93) per
month. Additionally, the members of the City Council and their dependents shall
be entitled to coverage under the City's medical, dental, and life insurance
program to be paid by the City, or alternatively, at the Council member's
election, to have a sum equal to one-half (1/2) of the monthly premium amount,
contributed to a 401(k) retirement account.
   C.   Compensation for the Mayor and members of the City Council shall be
adjusted annually based upon the same compensation increase that is made
available to all other employees of the City.
   D.   Elected officials shall be reimbursed for all City-related expenses,
including travel, as described in the adopted City Employee Policy Manual.
(Ord. 42-2018, 5-22-2018; amd. Ord. 30-2021, 7-27-2021)
ARTICLE A. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Agency Board Designated
1-6A-2: Authority Of Community Development And Renewal Agency
1-6A-1: AGENCY BOARD DESIGNATED:
The governing body of the city is designated as the governing body of the
community development and renewal agency of the city. (1984 Code § 2.88.010;
amd. 2015 Code)
1-6A-2: AUTHORITY OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY:
The community development and renewal agency of the city is authorized to enter
into agreements generally in connection with community development matters and
shall have the power, rights, duties and privileges set forth in Utah Code
Annotated title 17C et seq., community development and renewal agencies act,
which is adopted by reference the same as if fully set forth herein. (1984 Code
§ 2.88.020; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Creating Offices; Filling Vacancies
1-7-2: Powers And Duties Of City Officers And Employees
1-7-3: Oath And Bond
1-7-4: Compensation
1-7-5: Annual Report Required
1-7-6: City Administrator
1-7-7: City Residency And Response Time Requirements
1-7-1: CREATING OFFICES; FILLING VACANCIES:
   A.   General Authority: The city council may create any office deemed
necessary for the government of the city and provide for filling vacancies in
elective and appointive offices. (2015 Code)
   B.   Filling Vacancies In Office: In case any vacancy exists in any
statutory office of this city, the mayor shall appoint, subject to confirmation
by the city council, a suitable person to fill such vacancy, who shall qualify
and give bond in the same manner, and be subject to the same liabilities, as
the officer whose office shall become vacant. (1984 Code § 2.56.010; amd. 2015
Code)
1-7-2: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
City officers and employees shall have such powers, duties and authority as may
be prescribed by state and federal laws, statutes, city ordinances and
personnel policies. (2015 Code)
1-7-3: OATH AND BOND:
All elected and statutory officers of the city shall, before assuming the
duties of office, take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office,
and execute a bond with good and sufficient sureties, payable to the city, in
such penal sum as may by resolution or ordinance, be directed, conditioned for
the faithful performance of the duties of their offices, and the payment of all
monies received by such officer according to law and the ordinances of the
city. All bonds shall be filed with the city recorder, except the city
recorder's bond which shall be filed with the city treasurer. The premium
charged by a corporate surety for any official bond shall be paid by the city.
(1984 Code § 2.48.010; amd. 2015 Code)
1-7-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   The elected and statutory officers of the city shall receive such
compensation for their services as the city council may fix by ordinance
adopting compensation or compensation schedules enacted after public hearing.
   B.   Upon its own motion, the city council may review or consider the
compensation of any officer or officers of the city or a salary schedule
applicable to any officer or officers of the city for the purpose of
determining whether or not it should be adopted, changed or amended. In the
event that the city council decides that such compensation or compensation
schedules should be adopted, changed or amended, it shall set a time and place
of a public hearing at which all interested persons shall be given an
opportunity to be heard.
   C.   Notice of the time, place and purpose of the meeting shall be published
as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-818.
   D.   After the conclusion of the public hearing, the city council may enact
an ordinance fixing, changing or amending the compensation of any elective or
statutory officer of the city or adopting a compensation schedule applicable to
any officer or officers. (1984 Code § 2.52.010; amd. 2015 Code)
   E.   The compensation of all city officers shall be paid biweekly out of the
city treasury. (1984 Code § 2.52.020; amd. 2015 Code)
1-7-5: ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED:
Every elected or statutory officer of this city shall, on or before June 30 of
each year, make an annual report in writing to the mayor, which report shall
show:
   A.   The monies received and disbursed, if any, during the preceding twelve
(12) months.
   B.   The business done or labor performed by the officer during the
preceding twelve (12) months, and the general condition of such office at the
close thereof.
   C.   Such recommendations or suggestions as may be deemed of service or
benefit and for the welfare of the city. Such report shall comprise in a
consolidated form and for the whole year, the substance of the monthly or other
reports required by other provisions of this code or ordinances of the city.
The reports provided for in this section, or such portions thereof as may be
deemed necessary by the mayor, shall, with the mayor's own annual report,
giving a summary of the city business and condition, and such recommendations
as the mayor may consider advisable, be submitted to the city council on or
before the first meeting in September of each year. (1984 Code § 2.60.010; amd.
2015 Code)
1-7-6: CITY ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city
council, shall appoint a city administrator, who shall qualify by taking and
subscribing the constitutional oath of office. (1984 Code § 2.96.010; amd. 2015
Code)
   B.   Duties: Duties shall be established by job description and as described
by the governing body. (1984 Code § 2.96.020)
1-7-7: CITY RESIDENCY AND RESPONSE TIME REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Individuals hired into the positions listed in this subsection shall be
required to reside within the corporate boundaries of the city within twelve
(12) months of being hired unless: 1) upon a showing of good cause, an
exception is authorized by the mayor and approved by the city council; or 2) an
extension is authorized by the mayor and approved by the city council. Such
extension shall not exceed an additional twelve (12) month period. Additional
extensions may be granted at the discretion of the mayor and city council upon
a showing of hardship by the employee. The positions are as follows:
      1.   City administrator;
      2.   Police chief;
      3.   Fire chief.
   B.   The following positions shall be required to reside within a twenty
(20) minute response time of the city administrative offices as determined by
city GIS calculations:
      1.   Assistant city administrator;
      2.   City engineer;
      3.   Public works director;
      4.   Director of finance and administrative services;
      5.   Planning director;
      6.   Power director.
In addition, several city departments have essential employee positions that
require prompt response in the event of emergencies or service outage
occurrences. These departments are the police department, fire department,
public works department and the power department. Department directors of each
of these departments will specify, in department policies, such essential
positions. Employees occupying these specified positions will be required to
reside within a twenty (20) minute response time of the city administrative
offices as determined by the city GIS calculations.
   C.   There are no residency or response time requirements for all other
employees not identified in subsections A and B of this section.
   D.   City department directors may establish, by department policy,
residency and/or response time requirements more restrictive than the policies
described in subsection B of this section by identifying the essential employee
position and the corresponding response time requirement. However, those
policies must be related to the preservation of the health, safety or welfare
of the residents of the city and approved by the city council.
   E.   All current employees who hold positions with residency or response
time requirements as identified in subsections A and B of this section and who
do not currently meet those requirements are grandfathered in their current
positions and are not required to comply with the residency or response time
requirements so long as they hold their current positions. Should such
employees accept another position which has such requirements, compliance will
be required. However, this grandfathering provision does not apply if residency
or response time was a condition of employment imposed by the department when
the employee was hired.
   F.   The city "Personnel Policies And Procedures/Safety Manual" will be
amended to conform with the requirements of this section. All department
policies in conflict with the requirements of this section must be amended to
comply with this section. (Ord. 01-2012, 1-24-2012)
CHAPTER 8
PERSONNEL SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-8-1: General Policy And Procedure
1-8-2: Exempt And Nonexempt Services Designated
1-8-3: Administration Of Personnel System
1-8-4: Compliance With Federal And State Law; Hold Harmless Agreement
1-8-5: Criminal History Background Investigations Required
1-8-1: GENERAL POLICY AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   It is the policy of the city to provide an employee policy manual that
shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   A citywide system of employment in municipal government free from
personal and political considerations.
      2.   Equal employment opportunity without discrimination against any
employees or applicants for employment because of race, creed, color, ancestry,
religion, sex, age or national origin.
      3.   Appointments, promotions and all other personnel actions requiring
the application of the merit principles based on systematic and validated tests
and evaluations.
      4.   A formal plan, adopted and published, containing rules and
regulations for the appointment, dismissal, promotion, demotion, transfer,
tenure, discipline, classification, compensation, benefits, training, and all
other employment practices, policies and procedures which affect city
employees.
   B.   The city council retains the right to provide employment opportunity
and job growth for those who have limited skills or who are physically
handicapped.
   C.   Violation of the provisions of these rules shall be grounds for
rejection of application, suspension, demotion or dismissal.
   D.   Amendments and revisions to the employee policy manual shall become
effective upon adoption by the city council by resolution. (1984 Code §
2.80.010; amd. 2015 Code)
1-8-2: EXEMPT AND NONEXEMPT SERVICES DESIGNATED:
To facilitate provisions of the fair labor standards act, employees shall be
classified as either exempt or nonexempt, with respect to eligibility for
overtime payment. They shall be defined as:
   A.   Exempt: Positions of a managerial, administrative or professional
nature, as prescribed by federal and state labor statutes, shall be exempt from
minimum wage and mandatory overtime payment regulations.
   B.   Nonexempt: Positions of a clerical, technical or service nature, as
defined by federal and state labor statutes, which are covered by provisions
for minimum wage and mandatory overtime payment regulations. (2015 Code)
1-8-3: ADMINISTRATION OF PERSONNEL SYSTEM:
The mayor or his designee shall administer the personnel system in accordance
with the policy outlined in this section and by other applicable law. The mayor
shall perform the duties and have powers concerning personnel matters as
follows:
   A.   Administer and maintain the merit personnel system and other personnel
rules and regulations.
   B.   Develop, maintain and apply procedures for the recruitment,
compensation, promotion, training, discipline and related aspects of personnel
management for all personnel under its jurisdiction, subject to the provisions
of this chapter, city policies and personnel rules and regulations stated
herein, or adopted pursuant to this section.
   C.   Issue other supplemental personnel directives as are necessary for the
effective implementation of this section, city policies and rules and
regulations stated herein, or adopted pursuant to this section.
   D.   Recommend and submit to the city council for approval or modification
such new or revised personnel rules and regulations to include, but not be
limited to:
      1.   Classification of all city positions, based on the duties,
authority, responsibility, working conditions, knowledge and accountability of
each position whenever warranted by changed circumstances.
      2.   Compensation plan for all positions.
      3.   Methods for determining the merit and fitness of candidates for
appointment or promotion.
      4.   Policies and procedures regulating reduction in force, demotions,
transfers and removal, separation or discharge of employees.
      5.   Hours of work, standards of conduct, probationary period
requirements, attendance regulations, and provisions for sick and vacation
leave.
      6.   Policies and procedures governing persons holding provisional
appointments.
      7.   Policies and procedures governing employee management relationships.
      8.   Policies regarding all aspects of training and education programs.
      9.   Other practices and procedures necessary to the administration of
the personnel system. (1984 Code § 2.80.030; amd. 2015 Code)
1-8-4: COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAW; HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter, or in the rules and regulations developed under this
chapter, shall in any way conflict with any federal or state law, rule,
regulation or requirement which is or may become binding on the city because of
either the statutory existence of such laws and regulations or contracts into
which the city has entered or may enter with other units of government. The
mayor, city administrator, city recorder and all other officials and employees
of the city, whether elected, appointed or employed, shall not be held
personally liable for any decisions made under this chapter where such
decisions and the results thereof are determined to be in conflict with
federal, state or other statutory requirements. (1984 Code § 2.80.050; amd.
2015 Code)
1-8-5: CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS REQUIRED:
Prior to an offer of employment with the city, an applicant shall submit to a
background investigation, to be conducted by the city, to verify that there is
no history of violations of law regarding the applicant's morals, fitness for
duty, ethics, honesty or any violation which would hinder the applicant's
professional conduct in employment with the city. The use of criminal
background investigation records received shall comply with Utah Code Annotated
section 34-46-101 et seq., as amended, or any successor statute. (1984 Code §
2.80.060; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ELECTIONS AND CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Eligibility Of Elected Officers
1-9-2: Nonpartisan Primary System Adopted
1-9-3: Election Date; Terms Of Office
1-9-4: Campaign Finance Disclosure Requirements
1-9-1: ELIGIBILITY OF ELECTED OFFICERS:
All elected officers of the city shall be chosen by the qualified voters of the
city. No person shall be eligible to any elective office who is not a qualified
elector of the city. (1984 Code § 2.12.020; amd. 2015 Code)
1-9-2: NONPARTISAN PRIMARY SYSTEM ADOPTED:
The nonpartisan primary system for municipal elections in the city is adopted
as authorized by Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-404, whereby candidates for
municipal office shall be nominated at a nonpartisan primary election. All
provisions of the state election code as contained in Utah Code Annotated
section 20A-1-101 et seq., which pertain to the nonpartisan primary system for
municipal elections, are adopted and incorporated by reference. (1984 Code §
2.12.030)
1-9-3: ELECTION DATE; TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November 1965, and
biennially thereafter, there shall be held an election to fill all elective
offices to be vacated at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the first Monday of
January following. Such elected officers shall continue in office for four (4)
years, unless otherwise provided.
   B.   The election and term of office of officers shall be as follows: In the
year 1965, there shall be elected a mayor and two (2) council members for a
term of four (4) years, and quadrennially thereafter a mayor and two (2)
council members for a term of four (4) years. In the year 1967, there shall be
elected three (3) council members for a term of four (4) years, and
quadrennially thereafter.
   C.   The officers so elected shall enter upon their duties at twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon on the first Monday in January next succeeding their election.
(1984 Code § 2.12.040)
1-9-4: CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to complying with the campaign finance statement requirements of
Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-208, as amended, candidates for municipal
office shall file a campaign finance statement twenty-eight (28) days before
the date of the primary and general election. This additional campaign finance
statement shall include, up to the date of filing, the information required by
Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-208(4) and shall also include:
   A.   The disclosure of anything of value provided by a person or entity for
the political benefit of a candidate that was not authorized by or coordinated
with the candidate and of which the candidate has actual knowledge; and
   B.   The identity, if known, of the person or entity by whom it was
provided. (2015 Code; amd. Ord. 54-2021, 10-26-2021)
CHAPTER 10
ANNEXATION POLICY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Policy Plan
1-10-1: POLICY PLAN:
The annexation policy plan dated February 2010 is hereby adopted as the
annexation policy plan of the city and is on file in the city recorder's
office. (Ord. 02-23-10.2, 2-23-2010; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 11
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Policy Considerations
1-11-2: Definitions
1-11-3: Guidelines Advisory
1-11-4: Review Of Decision
1-11-5: Review Of Guidelines
1-11-6: Results Of Review
1-11-1: POLICY CONSIDERATIONS:
There is an underlying policy in the city, strongly favoring the careful
consideration of matters involving constitutional taking claims, in fairness to
the owner of private property bringing the claim and in view of the uncertainty
and expense involved in defending lawsuits alleging such issues. At the same
time, the legitimate role of government in lawfully regulating real property
must be preserved and the public right to require the dedication or exaction of
property consistent with the constitution. Consistent with this policy, it is
desired that a procedure be established for the review of actions that may
involve the issue of a constitutional taking. These provisions are to assist
governments in considering decisions that may involve constitutional takings.
It is intended that a procedure for such a review be provided, as well as
guidelines for such considerations. This chapter is further intended and shall
be construed to objectively and fairly review claims by citizens that a
specific government action should require payment of just compensation, yet
preserve the ability of the city to lawfully regulate real property and fulfill
its other duties and functions. (1984 Code § 1.40.010)
1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   "Constitutional taking" means actions by the city involving physical
taking or exaction of private real property that might require compensation to
a private real property owner because of:
      1.   The 5th or 14th amendment to the constitution of the United States;
      2.   Article I, section 22, of the Utah constitution;
      3.   Any court ruling governing the physical taking or exaction of
private real property by a government entity.
   B.   Actions by the city involving the physical taking or exaction of
private real property is not a "constitutional taking" if the physical taking
or exaction:
      1.   Bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest; and
      2.   Is roughly proportionate and reasonably related, on an
individualized property basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the
proposed development on the legitimate government interest. (1984 Code §
1.40.020)
1-11-3: GUIDELINES ADVISORY:
The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are advisory, and shall not be construed to expand or limit the
scope of the city liability for a constitutional taking. The reviewing body or
person shall not be required to make any determination under this chapter,
except pursuant to section
1-11-4 of this chapter. (1984 Code § 1.40.030)
1-11-4: REVIEW OF DECISION:
Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a constitutional
taking of their private real property shall request a review of a final
decision of any officer, employee, board, commission or council. The following
are specific procedures established for such a review:
   A.   The person requesting a review must have obtained a final and
authoritative determination, internally, within the city, relative to the
decision from which they are requesting review.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days from the date of the final decision that gave
rise to the concern that a constitutional taking has occurred, the person
requesting the review shall file in writing, in the office of the city
recorder, a request for review of that decision. A copy shall be filed with the
city attorney.
   C.   The city council, or an individual or body designated by the city
council, shall immediately set a time to review the decision that gave rise to
the constitutional takings claim.
   D.   In addition to the written request for review, the applicant must
submit, prior to the date of the review, the following:
      1.   Name of the applicant requesting review;
      2.   Name and business address of current owner of the property, form of
ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for profit or not for profit
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other, and, if owned by a
corporation, partnership or joint venture, name and address of all principal
shareholders or partners;
      3.   A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has
been a constitutional taking;
      4.   A detailed description of the property taken;
      5.   Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property taken,
including the date and cost at the date the property was acquired. This should
include any evidence of the value of the same property before and after the
alleged constitutional taking, the name of the party from whom purchased,
including the relationship, if any, between the person requesting a review and
the party from whom the property was acquired;
      6.   Nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as,
but not limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold interest;
      7.   Terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of a
full or partial interest in the property in the three (3) years prior to the
date of application;
      8.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, including
financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three (3)
years prior to the date of application;
      9.   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the
previous three (3) years;
      10.   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured
by the property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest
rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan and other significant
provisions, including, but not limited to, right of purchasers to assume the
loan;
      11.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three (3) years;
      12.   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the
petitioner within the previous three (3) years concerning feasibility of
development or utilization of the property;
      13.   For income producing property, itemized income and expense
statements from the property for the previous three (3) years;
      14.   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and
      15.   The city council or their designee may request additional
information reasonably necessary, in their opinion, to arrive at a conclusion
concerning whether there has been a constitutional taking.
   E.   An application shall not be deemed to be "complete" or "submitted"
until the reviewing body/official certifies to the applicant that all the
materials and information required above have been received by the city. The
reviewing body/official shall promptly notify the applicant of any incomplete
application.
   F.   The city council or an individual or body designated by them, shall
hear all the evidence related to and submitted by the applicant, city or any
other interested party.
   G.   A final decision on the review shall be rendered within fourteen (14)
days from the date the complete application for review has been received by the
city recorder. The decision of the city council regarding the results of the
review shall be given in writing to the applicant and the officer, employee,
board, commission or council that rendered the final decision that gave rise to
the constitutional takings claim.
   H.   If the city council fails to hear and decide the review within fourteen
(14) days, the decision appealed from shall be presumed to be approved. (1984
Code § 1.40.040)
1-11-5: REVIEW OF GUIDELINES:
The city council shall review the facts and information presented by the
applicant to determine whether or not the action by the city constitutes·a
"constitutional taking", as defined in this chapter. In doing so, they shall
consider:
   A.   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real property
bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest;
   B.   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action taken
by the city;
   C.   Is the property and exaction taken, roughly proportionate and
reasonably related, on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent,
to the impact caused by the activities that are the subject of the decision
being reviewed. (1984 Code § 1.40.050)
1-11-6: RESULTS OF REVIEW:
After completing the review, the reviewing person/body shall make a
determination regarding the above issues and where determined to be necessary
and appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the officer, employee, board,
commission or council that made the decision that gave rise to the
constitutional takings claim. (1984 Code § 1.40.060)
CHAPTER 12
SIGNIFICANT PARCELS OF REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Procedure For Disposing Of A Significant Parcel
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
REASONABLE NOTICE: At least fourteen (14) days prior to the public hearing, the
city shall publish notice: a) in a newspaper of general circulation within Lehi
City; b) on the Utah state notice website; and c) on the city website at least
fourteen (14) days prior to the public hearing before the city council, as
required by Utah Code Annotated section 10-8-2(4)(b)(ii).
SIGNIFICANT PARCEL OF REAL PROPERTY: A parcel of one acre or more having been
owned by Lehi City for a period of one year or more, as required by Utah Code
Annotated section 10-8-2(4)(b)(i). (1984 Code § 1.50.010; amd. 2015 Code)
1-12-2: PROCEDURE FOR DISPOSING OF A SIGNIFICANT PARCEL:
Before the city may dispose of a significant parcel of real property, the city
must give reasonable notice to the public. (1984 Code § 1.50.010; amd. 2015
Code)
CHAPTER 13
GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-13-1: State Statute Adopted By Reference
1-13-2: Fees
1-13-1: STATE STATUTE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-101 et seq., the government records access
and management act (GRAMA), is hereby adopted as the government records access
and management ordinance for the city and incorporated into this chapter. Those
portions of Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-101 et seq., that do not apply to
municipalities are not adopted herein. (1984 Code § 2.92.010; amd. 2015 Code)
1-13-2: FEES:
Fees are set forth in the consolidated fee schedule. (1984 Code § 2.92.020;
amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 14
STATE PROCUREMENT CODE
SECTION:
1-14-1: State Procurement Code Provisions And Rule Adopted
1-14-1: STATE PROCUREMENT CODE PROVISIONS AND RULE ADOPTED:
Utah Code Annotated section 63G-6a-1302 entitled "alternative methods of
construction contracting management" is hereby adopted as title 1, chapter 14
of this code. Also adopted hereby is rule R23-1, "procurement of construction"
adopted by the state building board. Said rules are hereby adopted only to the
extent they are relevant to Utah Code Annotated section 63G-6a-1302 as herein
adopted by the city. (1984 Code § 2.94.010; amd. 2015 Code)
TITLE 2
REVENUE AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 1
UTILITY BILLING AND COLLECTION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Title
2-1-2: Fee Schedule
2-1-3: Monthly Billing
2-1-4: Calculation Of Rates
2-1-5: Due Date
2-1-6: Late Fee
2-1-7: Involuntary Disconnect Procedures
2-1-8: Voluntary Disconnect/Reconnect Procedures
2-1-9: Turning On Utilities After Being Turned Off Prohibited
2-1-10: Restitution Of Payment
2-1-11: Application For Service Required
2-1-12: Security Deposit Required (Rep. by Ord. 25-2020, 5-12- 2020)
2-1-13: Service Fee For Returned Checks And Dishonored Credit Charges
2-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the UNIFORM UTILITY BILLING ORDINANCE. (2015
Code)
2-1-2: FEE SCHEDULE:
For the purposes of this chapter, all fees, charges and deposit amounts shall
be as set forth in the current city consolidated fee schedule as approved by
the city council. (2015 Code)
2-1-3: MONTHLY BILLING:
The treasury department will be responsible for the preparation and collection
of all utility bills. A system of unified billing shall be utilized whereby
charges for electric, water, sewer, pressurized irrigation, drainage and
garbage services are combined on one statement ("statement"), and billed on a
monthly basis. All owners or occupants of premises in the city shall pay for
electric and water services on a metered basis as used, sewer in the same usage
as water, and for drainage, garbage and green waste on a flat fee basis,
utilizing the person or firm designated for the city to collect appropriate
garbage, green waste and rubbish upon such premises. (2015 Code)
2-1-4: CALCULATION OF RATES:
The schedule of rates to be charged the consumers for all available municipal
services shall be calculated from time to time in accordance with the
requirements of the utility systems and the best interests of the community.
Those rates shall be approved by the mayor and city council. (2015 Code)
2-1-5: DUE DATE:
All charges billed on the statement shall be due and payable on the due date
provided on the statement. The due date shall be generally between fifteen (15)
and twenty five (25) days after the statement is mailed. All payments received
by the city shall be allocated among the charges billed on the statement
according to procedures determined by the city. (2015 Code)
2-1-6: LATE FEE:
A late fee will be calculated on all charges not paid on the due date as a set
amount established in the consolidated fee schedule. The late charge shall be
due and payable with all other unpaid charges. (2015 Code)
2-1-7: INVOLUNTARY DISCONNECT PROCEDURES:
In the event any customer fails to pay all charges billed for any of the
available municipal services, and any late charges assessed, on or before the
due date shown on the statement, the customer shall be subject to the following
disconnect procedures:
   A.   Prior to termination of a service for nonpayment, the customer shall be
mailed, at the customer's last known address, a notice providing that the
customer's electrical or water service, or both, shall be disconnected if all
delinquent charges and all related late charges are not paid within ten (10)
days of the date of the notice.
   B.   If any person shall fail or refuse to pay, or have paid on his behalf,
the charges for any of the available municipal services, the city shall shut
off either water or electric service, or both, to the premises occupied by that
person. In addition to terminating utility service, the city is authorized and
empowered to enforce the payment of all delinquent utility service charges by
an action at law. In such event, the city shall be entitled to recover its
costs and attorney fees.
   C.   The electrical services may only be reconnected for the customer if the
following are paid:
      1.   A reconnect charge; and
      2.   All outstanding charges for all services. (2015 Code)
2-1-8: VOLUNTARY DISCONNECT/RECONNECT PROCEDURES:
   A.   In the event a customer desires to disconnect the water and/or
electrical services, the service shall be disconnected by the city. The city
may, for security purposes, remove the electrical and/or water meters as part
of the disconnection process. If the meter has been removed, and if service is
again requested by that customer, a single reconnect charge shall be paid to
reconnect the service.
   B.   If a customer requests services be connected for the purposes of
inspection of said property, a reconnection fee shall be paid and services will
be restored for a period of two (2) city business days.
   C.   Services at rental property shall be disconnected between tenants
unless a landlord agreement is on file with the utility billing office. (2015
Code)
2-1-9: TURNING ON UTILITIES AFTER BEING TURNED OFF PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, after utility service has been turned off from
his/her premises for nonpayment of utility charges or other violation of the
rules and regulations pertaining to the utility service, to turn on or allow
the services to be turned on or used without authority. Violation of this
section shall be class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code)
2-1-10: RESTITUTION OF PAYMENT:
In the event that utility services at a structure are found to have been
incorrectly billed, restitution of payment to the customer, or to the city,
shall only be made on the most current thirty six (36) month billing period. No
claims shall be filed or suits shall be instituted for improper billing outside
this time limit. (2015 Code)
2-1-11: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE REQUIRED:
   A.   Application: No culinary water, secondary water or electric service
shall be furnished to any house, lot, tenement, apartment, building, premises
or place, whether such utility is for the use of an owner or a tenant, unless
the application therefor shall be made in writing, signed by such user or his
duly authorized agent, in which application the user shall agree to pay for all
water and/or electricity furnished thereto according to city ordinances, rules
and regulations. In the event there is a change in user, the city shall
nonetheless hold the original user liable for charges incurred until the city
is advised of the change and the new user makes appropriate application in
writing to transfer the account and agree to pay for changes thereon.
   B.   New Account Where Preexisting Debt: Where application is made to open a
new account which will benefit a user who still owes the city for utility
service under an old account from which the user benefited, the application
shall be rejected and service shall be refused until arrangements are made for
payment of the prior indebtedness. It shall constitute an offense of strict
liability for a user with outstanding indebtedness for utility service to
knowingly permit an account to be opened in another name for utility service
from which such user will benefit, and the user who engages in such a practice
may be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2015 Code)
2-1-12: SECURITY DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 25-2020, 5-12-2020)
2-1-13: SERVICE FEE FOR RETURNED CHECKS AND DISHONORED CREDIT CHARGES:
The city treasurer may assess and collect a service fee from the maker or
issuer of any check, debit card or credit card payable to the city when payment
is dishonored upon first presentment by the bank upon which it is drawn. The
service fee shall be the sum adopted by the city council in the consolidated
fee schedule. The assessment and collection of this fee shall not preclude the
initiation of appropriate civil or criminal proceedings against the issuer or
maker of the dishonored check or credit charges. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PURCHASING
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purposes
2-2-2: Scope
2-2-3: Definitions
2-2-4: General Powers
2-2-5: Purchasing Agent
2-2-6: Purchase Approval; Procurement Procedures Generally
2-2-7: Evaluation And Procedure In Competitive Procurement Processes
2-2-8: Construction Projects
2-2-9: Exceptions To Procurement Process
2-2-10: Appeals
2-2-11: Relief Due To Computation Error
2-2-12: Contract Change Orders
2-2-13: Performance And Bid Bonds
2-2-14: Records Maintained
2-2-15: No Collusion
2-2-16: Ineligibility
2-2-17: Personal Purchases
2-2-18: Right To Inspect Place Of Business
2-2-19: Cost Plus Percentage Of Cost Contract Prohibited; Exception
2-2-20: Sales Of Goods Or Services To City By Officials Or Employees
2-2-21: Participation By Bidder Who Supplies Specifications
2-2-22: Period Of Time For Contract Of Supplies Or Services
2-2-23: Failure To Comply
2-2-24: E-Verify Program
2-2-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   The purposes of this chapter are:
      1.   To encourage an economic and efficient procurement process for the
City;
      2.   To encourage fair and competitive bidding in the City's procurement
process;
      3.   To facilitate the procurement of the highest quality services,
products, and construction at the most reasonable and responsible cost to the
City;
      4.   To provide fair treatment of persons or entities who conduct
business, or wish to conduct business, with the City; and
      5.   To provide for more transparency in the expenditure of City funds.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall create any right, interest, or cause of
action against the City, its officers, agents, or employees. The City's failure
to follow any provision of this chapter shall not invalidate any particular
procurement, provided that:
      1.   The failure was not a result of bad faith; and
      2.   The purposes of this chapter have been substantially achieved. (Ord.
30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-2: SCOPE:
This chapter governs expenditures of public monies by the City under any
contract or similar business agreement, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   APPLICANT: Means any bidder, offeror, vendor, supplier, or proposer making a
proposal.
   COMPETITIVE PROCUREMENT PROCESS: Means the process of procuring any goods,
services, or construction through competitive, sealed proposals to requests
issued by the City through its open and public process.
   PROPOSAL: Means any bid, proposal, purchase, or other offer or submission
which is related to procurement by the City.
   REQUEST: Means any invitation or request for bids, proposals, offers,
submissions, quotes, or qualifications. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-4: GENERAL POWERS:
The City may take any action with respect to procurement which is in the best
interest of the City, provided that any such action is consistent with the
purposes contemplated by this chapter including:
   A.   Rejecting any proposal from an individual or entity which is in any
position adverse to the City in any past, present, pending, threatened, or
likely litigation, administrative proceeding, dispute resolution process, or
similar proceeding;
   B.   Rejecting any proposal that is determined by the City to be non-
responsive or that the applicant is non-responsible pursuant to criteria
established by the City in the request, this chapter, or a relevant City policy
or code;
   C.   Rejecting all or a portion of any proposal when doing so would be in
the City's best interests and provided that any such rejection does not violate
applicable laws;
   D.   Waiving or modifying requirements within a particular request when
doing so would be in the City's best interests and provided that any such
waiver or modification does not violate applicable laws; or
   E.   Utilizing any lawful means of solicitation to effectively,
economically, and efficiently procure services, products, and construction,
including:
      1.   Requiring prequalification;
      2.   Maintaining lists of prospective applicants;
      3.   Procuring in phases, subject to the restrictions in subsection
2-2-6B1 of this chapter;
      4.   Awarding multiple contracts, subject to the restrictions in
subsection
2-2-6B1 of this chapter;
      5.   Requiring multi-step, sealed bidding;
      6.   Utilizing any means of notification;
      7.   Requiring demonstrations of competence and responsibility; and
      8.   Requiring special processes to meet the particular needs of the
City. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-5: PURCHASING AGENT:
The Mayor may appoint a purchasing agent whose duties shall be defined by the
Mayor with the input of the City Administrator and the Finance Director. If a
purchasing agent is not appointed, the department head acts as the purchasing
agent for an individual department. The duties may include:
   A.   Coordinating proposals contemplated by this chapter;
   B.   Negotiating, recommending, and administering contracts;
   C.   Advising departments regarding various aspects of the requirements of
this chapter and any other applicable law or policy;
   D.   Maintaining lists and records of prospective applicants;
   E.   Recommending and maintaining approved policies governing matters
contemplated by this chapter;
   F.   Developing and maintaining forms to facilitate efficient processes
contemplated by this chapter;
   G.   Establishing criteria for prequalifying applicants for particular
procurements; and
   H.   Hiring support staff to provide adequate resources to accomplish the
purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-6: PURCHASE APPROVAL; PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES GENERALLY:
   A.   If authorized pursuant to section
2-2-5 of this chapter, the purchasing agent, or department heads, if a
purchasing agent is not appointed, shall have the authority and responsibility
for all procurements on behalf of the City and to enter into any contract or
similar transaction necessary to carry out the procurement as follows:
      1.   Purchases, contracts, and purchase orders less than twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) may be approved and signed by the department head
provided the funds for such procurement have previously been appropriated by
the City Council in the acquiring department's total budget appropriation.
      2.   Purchases, contracts, and purchase orders between twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) and one hundred twenty five thousand dollars
($125,000.00) shall be approved and signed by the Mayor or City Administrator,
provided the funds for such procurement have previously been appropriated by
the City Council to the acquiring department's total budget appropriation.
      3.   Purchases, contracts, and purchase orders exceeding one hundred
twenty five thousand dollars ($125,000.00) shall be approved by the City
Council and signed by the Mayor.
      4.   Any procurement not covered by a previous appropriation shall
require approval of the City Council and shall be signed by the Mayor.
      5.   All contracts must be countersigned by the City Recorder who shall,
as the custodian of the records, maintain a copy of the contract as required by
State Records Law.
   B.   City procurements of goods and services reasonably expected to cost
less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) do not require the solicitation of
bids or proposals. Procurements of goods and services reasonably expected to be
between five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) shall require three (3) written quotes for prices from proposed
vendors. Where the amount of expenditure for any procurement, other than
construction-related procurement, is reasonably likely to exceed twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00), a competitive procurement process shall be
utilized. For construction-related procurement, a competitive procurement
process shall be utilized where the amount is reasonably likely to exceed one
hundred twenty five thousand dollars ($125,000.00). In both such situations,
the purchasing agent shall issue a request for the procurement by any means
which the purchasing agent determines to be in the best interest of the City.
The request and subsequent award of a contract, if applicable, shall conform to
the requirements of this chapter.
      1.   The City shall not avoid the competitive procurement process by
dividing a project into smaller projects for the purpose of bringing each part
of the project below the amount where the competitive procurement process would
otherwise be required.
         a.   Change orders which could not have reasonably been foreseen or
contemplated shall not be deemed a division of a project into smaller projects
for the purpose of bringing each part of the project below the amount where the
competitive procurement process would otherwise be required.
         b.   Fee increases of not more than five percent (5%) in a multi-year
or automatically renewing contract shall not be deemed a division of a project
into smaller projects for the purpose of bringing each part of the project
below the amount where the competitive procurement process would otherwise be
required.
         c.   When the City has the option to extend the term of a contract for
additional terms, the extension shall be approved by: 1) a department head if
the annual amount of the original contract was less than twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00); 2) the Mayor or City Administrator if the annual amount
of the original contract was between twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00)
and one hundred twenty five thousand dollars ($125,000.00); and 3) the City
Council if the annual amount of the original contract was greater than one
hundred twenty five thousand dollars ($125,000.00).
         d.   If a multi-year or automatically renewing contract is for a term
of five (5) or more years, or if the contract has been automatically renewed
for a period of five (5) years, the contract shall be subject to the
competitive procurement process at the end of the then-existing term thereof.
      2.   The competitive procurement processes shall include, at a minimum,
the following requirements:
         a.   Notice of the request shall be made public in a manner determined
by the purchasing agent to be in the City's best interests. The request shall
state the requirements to which a prospective applicant may respond.
         b.   Proposals which are received after the time established in the
request or which are otherwise incomplete or nonresponsive shall not be
considered unless, at the purchasing agent's discretion, consideration is
otherwise allowed by the request, this chapter, or an applicable City policy.
         c.   Proposals which are received prior to or at the time established
in the request shall be opened in a manner established by the request, this
chapter, or an applicable City policy. A record of each such proposal shall be
retained by the City pursuant to the Utah Municipal general records retention
schedule.
         d.   Each timely and responsive proposal shall be evaluated based upon
the criteria established in the invitation, this chapter, and any applicable
City policy.
         e.   Prospective applicants may be pre-qualified by any process
established by the purchasing agent. Failure to prequalify shall not disqualify
a prospective applicant from consideration with respect to any request unless
otherwise provided in the request, this chapter, or an applicable City policy.
         f.   Any contract awarded pursuant to the competitive procurement
process shall be awarded to the lowest responsive and responsible applicant
according to the criteria set forth in any request, this chapter, and an
applicable City policy. However, no contract shall be awarded if the proposal
submitted by the lowest responsive and responsible applicant exceeds the amount
which has been previously appropriated to the applicable procurement.
         g.   The City shall provide written electronic or traditional
notification to each applicant of the City's determination of the lowest
responsive and responsible applicant. Upon providing such notification, the
proposals received by the City shall be open for public inspection.
   C.   The purchasing agent may waive minor defects in any proposal received
provided that doing so is in the best interest of the City.
   D.   An applicant may withdraw or modify its proposal at any time until the
submission deadline set forth in the request has passed.
   E.   When the City selects a lowest responsive and responsible applicant and
awards a contract pursuant thereto, the applicant shall enter into a written
contract with the City no later than forty five (45) days after the award of
contract. The form and contents of any such contract shall include any
provisions set forth in the request and shall be acceptable to the City
Attorney. In the event that the City and the successful applicant are unable to
enter into a written contract within forty five (45) days after the award of
contract, the City may rescind the award and offer the same to the next lowest
responsive and responsible applicant without having to start the competitive
procurement process anew. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-7: EVALUATION AND PROCEDURE IN COMPETITIVE PROCUREMENT PROCESSES:
   A.   In addition to any evaluation criteria established in a request, the
City may evaluate the following criteria when selecting the lowest responsive
and responsible applicant:
      1.   The applicant's capacity to perform the applicable contractual
requirements, including, but not limited to, whether the applicant has
available and appropriate financial, material, equipment, facility, and
personnel resources and expertise;
      2.   The applicant's legal capacity and ability to enter into an
agreement with the City;
      3.   The applicant's qualifications, ability, skill, and quality of
performance in light of the required goods, services, or construction;
      4.   The applicant's ability to provide warranties, maintenance, and
service with respect to the subject matter of the contract to be awarded;
      5.   The applicant's character, integrity, reputation, judgment,
experience, and efficiency;
      6.   The applicant's ability to work cooperatively with the City,
including, but not limited to, prior interactions with the City or other
similar entities;
      7.   Litigation or prosecution, or other similar claims, by or against
the applicant;
      8.   The cost of the applicant's proposal to the City; and
      9.   Past negative City experience with the applicant.
   B.   Criteria for evaluating proposals in competitive procurement processes
may also be established by an applicable City policy.
   C.   Unless altered by the request, the following general steps will be
followed in each competitive procurement process:
      1.   The City shall initially review all proposals received by the
submission deadline set forth in the request to determine if any of the
proposals are non-responsive or otherwise nonconforming to the requirements set
forth in the request. Any such non-responsive or otherwise nonconforming
proposal shall be eliminated.
      2.   The City shall next cursorily review the remaining proposals and
eliminate those which, in the sole judgment of the City, fail to provide enough
substantive information required to warrant further consideration.
      3.   Any remaining proposals shall then be reviewed and evaluated in
detail pursuant to the criteria established in the request, this chapter, and
any applicable City policy.
   D.   The City may, in its sole discretion, conduct interviews or discussions
with applicants to ensure a full understanding of the proposals submitted.
   E.   In the event two (2) or more applicants are equal in the City's
determination of the lowest responsive and responsible applicant, the City may
request each such applicant to submit an amended bid so that the City may
select a single lowest responsive and responsible applicant.
   F.   The City shall document the basis of selecting the lowest responsive
and responsible applicant. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-8: CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS:
   A.   Contracts for City construction projects shall comply with this chapter
as well as any applicable Federal and State law, including Utah Code Annotated
sections 10-7-20.5, 10-7-86, and 14-1-18.
   B.   The City may utilize as many alternative methods of construction
contracting and management as the City determines to be in its best interest,
including, but not limited to, design-bid, design-build, etc. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-
8-2018)
2-2-9: EXCEPTIONS TO PROCUREMENT PROCESS:
   A.   The following procurements, transactions, scenarios, products, and
services are not subject to the competitive procurement processes contemplated
by this chapter:
      1.   Grants, gifts, and bequests, provided that any such transfer
complies with applicable law and ethical practices and that prior to the City
accepting any such transfer, the Mayor has approved the same;
      2.   Superior or more suitable products, provided that the City documents
in writing how any such product significantly surpasses similar competing
products in terms of quality, serviceability, or longevity, or that such
product is better suited to the needs of the City to lower costs of inventory
or to maintain compatibility with existing City-owned equipment;
      3.   Interlocal agreements or other similar cooperative arrangements with
any Federal, State, County, or other local government entity, including special
service districts, school districts, and other similar entities, for the
purpose of procuring goods and services via any such agreement or arrangement
administered by another governmental entity; however, prior to entering into
any such interlocal agreement or other similar cooperative arrangement, the
City shall document in writing that the benefits of this method of procurement
outweigh utilizing the competitive procurement process;
      4.   Purchasing under State contracts;
      5.   When procurement involves the expenditure of Federal or State funds
received by the City, provided that the City's qualifications for receiving the
funds require the City to utilize procurement processes other than those
contemplated by this chapter;
      6.   Emergency situations where the competitive procurement processes
could not reasonably be utilized, in which case the emergency procurement shall
be made with as much competition as practicable in light of the circumstances
and, following the emergency procurement, the individual who made the
procurement shall provide a written declaration to the purchasing agent
detailing the procurement, including the cost of the emergency procurement, the
circumstances necessitating an emergency procurement, and the procedures
utilized in the emergency procurement. An emergency situation is an imminent
threat to the public's health, welfare, safety, or when there exists an
imminent and substantial risk of injury or loss to property under conditions
which reasonably do not permit fulfilling all the purchasing requirements in
this chapter. Before proceeding with procurement under this section, a
purchasing agent must notify and receive approval from the City Administrator
or Finance Director;
      7.   When products or services are reasonably available only from a
single source, in which case prior to procurement the City shall document in
writing the efforts that were taken to determine that the subject products or
services were, in fact, reasonably available only from a single source;
      8.   When a contractor is already on site;
      9.   When due to an inventory of replacement or servicing parts which is
compatible with existing specific equipment used by the City, the City has a
contract or multiple contracts for the continual replenishment of the
inventory;
      10.   Professional services contracts including legal, engineering,
accounting, financial services and architectural;
      11.   When fewer than three (3) timely and responsive proposals are
received by the City, in which case the purchasing agent may procure the goods
or services from any source and in any legal manner which the purchasing agent
determines to be in the best interests of the City; and
      12.   Contracts for special investigatory or similar services or supplies
for the Police Department where confidentiality is necessary.
   B.   At the discretion of the purchasing agent, the City may utilize the
competitive procurement process for any of the exceptions listed in subsection
A of this section. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-10: APPEALS:
   A.   An applicant may appeal an award of contract by filing a written notice
of appeal with the City Recorder.
      1.   The notice of appeal shall be filed by the applicant or its legal
representative within ten (10) calendar days of the award of contract by the
City and shall contain:
         a.   The name, address, email, and telephone number of the applicant;
         b.   Identification of the contract or procurement number;
         c.   A detailed statement of all legal and factual grounds for the
appeal, including true and accurate copies of all supporting documentation;
         d.   A detailed explanation of the relief requested; and
         e.   The signature of the applicant or its legal representative.
      2.   The purchasing agent shall issue a written decision within fifteen
(15) calendar days after receiving the notice of appeal. The purchasing agent
shall send the written decision to the applicant, as well as any other party
which the purchasing agent determines may have an interest in the appeal. The
written decision shall state the basis for the decision and either grant or
deny the relief requested by the applicant.
         a.   If no written decision is issued within fifteen (15) calendar
days after receiving the notice of appeal, the applicant's appeal shall be
considered denied by the purchasing agent.
         b.   The purchasing agent, in the agent's sole discretion, may conduct
a hearing before rendering a decision on the applicant's notice of appeal.
Notice of the hearing shall be provided to the applicant, as well as any other
party which the purchasing agent determines may have an interest in the appeal.
At the hearing, interested parties shall have an opportunity to be heard and to
present evidence within the discretion of the purchasing agent.
         c.   The purchasing agent, in his or her sole discretion, may decide
to postpone moving forward with the appealed procurement until the appeal has
been resolved.
   B.   The purchasing agent's written decision may be appealed to the Mayor by
any aggrieved party, including the City, by filing a written notice of appeal
of the decision with the City Recorder.
      1.   The notice of appeal shall be filed by the aggrieved party or its
legal representative within ten (10) calendar days after the purchasing agent
has issued the written decision and shall contain:
         a.   The name, address, email, and telephone number of the aggrieved
party or its legal representative;
         b.   Identification of the contract or procurement number;
         c.   A detailed statement of all legal and factual grounds of the
appeal of the purchasing agent's written decision, including true and accurate
copies of all supporting documentation;
         d.   A detailed explanation of the relief requested; and
         e.   The signature of the aggrieved party or its legal representative.
      2.   The Mayor or the Mayor's designee shall issue a written decision
within fifteen (15) calendar days after receiving the notice of appeal. The
Mayor or the Mayor's designee shall send the written decision to the aggrieved
party, as well as any other party which the Mayor or the Mayor's designee
determines may have an interest in the appeal. The written decision shall state
the basis for the decision and shall either grant or deny the relief requested
by the aggrieved party.
         a.   If no written decision is issued within fifteen (15) calendar
days after receiving the notice of appeal, the aggrieved party's appeal shall
be considered denied by the Mayor or the Mayor's designee.
         b.   The Mayor or the Mayor's designee, in his or her sole discretion,
may conduct a hearing before rendering a decision on the aggrieved party's
notice of appeal. Notice of the hearing shall be provided to the aggrieved
party, as well as any other party which the Mayor or the Mayor's designee
determines may have an interest in the appeal. At the hearing, interested
parties shall have an opportunity to be heard and to present evidence within
the discretion of the Mayor or the Mayor's designee.
         c.   The Mayor or the Mayor's designee, in his or her sole discretion,
may decide to postpone moving forward with the appealed procurement until the
appeal has been resolved.
      3.   The administrative appeals procedure contemplated by this chapter
shall be exhausted before other legal remedies may be pursued.
      4.   At all times, the party filing the appeal or lawsuit shall bear the
burden of proof. A procurement decision made pursuant to this chapter shall be
presumed valid unless the party can prove by clear and convincing evidence that
any such decision is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-
2018)
2-2-11: RELIEF DUE TO COMPUTATION ERROR:
Any bidder who seeks to withdraw or modify a bid may do so prior to the date
and time set for the bid closing. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-12: CONTRACT CHANGE ORDERS:
A City department head is authorized to approve change orders to a contract
when the total amount of all such change orders is less than twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00). The Mayor or City Administrator is authorized to
approve change orders to a contract when the total amount of all such change
orders is between twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) and one hundred
twenty five thousand dollars ($125,000.00). The City Council must approve
change orders to a contract when the total amount of all such change orders
exceeds one hundred twenty five thousand dollars ($125,000.00). At their
discretion, the Mayor or City Administrator may require a change order of any
amount to be approved by the City Council. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-13: PERFORMANCE AND BID BONDS:
Performance and bid bonds may be required by the purchasing agent in such
amounts as the purchasing agent determines are needed to protect the best
interests of the City. The nature, form, and amount of such bonds shall be
described in the notice inviting bids or in the request for competitive sealed
proposals. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-14: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
Except when a longer minimum time is required by State law or City ordinance,
the purchasing agent or department head making a procurement of more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall keep records relating to the procurement for
not less than three (3) years from the time of the procurement. (Ord. 30-2018,
5-8-2018)
2-2-15: NO COLLUSION:
   A.   Collusion Among Bidders: Any agreement or collusion among bidders or
prospective bidders is a restraint of freedom of competition and any agreement
to bid a fixed price, or otherwise, shall render the bids of such bidders void.
In addition to any criminal penalties that may be applicable, the City may
pursue all other legal and equitable remedies against any individual or entity
involved in such an agreement or collusion. Any individual or entity which the
City determines to have engaged in any such agreement or collusion shall be
disqualified from consideration in future procurement opportunities with the
City. Any such agreement or collusion shall constitute a material breach of any
contract which was obtained as a result of the agreement or collusion.
   B.   Gratuities: The acceptance of any gift, benefit, or gratuity in the
form of cash, merchandise or any other thing of value greater than fifty
dollars ($50.00) by an official or employee of the City from a vendor or
contractor, or prospective vendor or contractor, which would reasonably be
expected to substantially influence the actions of the official or employee in
favor of the giver in future procurements or negotiations may be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter and may be cause for removal or other disciplinary
action. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-16: INELIGIBILITY:
In addition to all other remedies permitted by law, the Mayor may declare a
bidder or contractor ineligible to bid on City procurement and public works
contracts for a period not to exceed five (5) years for any of the following
grounds: two (2) or more claims of computational error in bid submission within
a two (2) year period; an unjustified refusal to provide or execute contract
documents; unsatisfactory performance of contract; unjustified refusal to
perform or complete contract work or warranty performance; unjustified failure
to honor or observe contractual obligations or legal requirements pertaining to
the contract; or conviction under State or Federal Statutes for fraud, bribery,
theft, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen property or of
any other similar crime or offense indicating a lack of business integrity and
which would directly affect the reliability and credibility of performance of
such a vendor or contractor with future contracts with the City. (Ord. 30-2018,
5-8-2018)
2-2-17: PERSONAL PURCHASES:
Procurements of goods and services ordered on City credit or paid for by the
City which is for the personal use of an official or employee of the City shall
not be delivered, or if delivered, shall be void or voidable at the City's
option. Such personal procurements shall not be permitted and shall be
considered cause for disciplinary action. City officers and employees may
purchase goods or services for personal use from suppliers at discounted rates
offered to the City where the supplier makes such goods or services available
to all City officials and employees on the same terms, provided the official or
employee pays for such items from the official's or employee's own money, and
provided the purchase is not reasonably likely to improperly influence the
official, employee or a City department in the discharge of their duties or in
making purchases of supplies or services. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-18: RIGHT TO INSPECT PLACE OF BUSINESS:
The City may, at reasonable times, inspect the part of the plant or place of
business of a contractor or any subcontractor, which is related to the
performance of any contract awarded or to be awarded by the City. (Ord. 30-
2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-19: COST PLUS PERCENTAGE OF COST CONTRACT PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
Subject to the limitations of this section or other applicable law, any type of
contract which will promote the best interests of the City may be used, except
a cost plus a percentage of cost contract is prohibited. A cost reimbursement
contract may be used only when a determination is made in writing by the Mayor,
City Administrator, or the department head, that such contract is likely to be
less costly to the City than any other type, or that it is impracticable to
obtain the supplies, services or construction required except under such a
contract. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-20: SALES OF GOODS OR SERVICES TO CITY BY OFFICIALS OR EMPLOYEES:
City officials and employees may sell goods or services to the City under the
following conditions:
   A.   An employee or the employee's spouse, parent, children or siblings may
not sell goods or services to the employee's department unless the sale is
first approved in writing by the department head and either the Mayor or City
Administrator.
   B.   All such transactions are subject to applicable provisions contained in
Utah Code Annotated regarding ethics of Municipal officials and employees.
(Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-21: PARTICIPATION BY BIDDER WHO SUPPLIES SPECIFICATIONS:
A person other than a City employee who has prepared specifications used
substantially by the City in determining from which bidder or proponent it
wishes to purchase goods or services may participate in a bid or proposal
procurement where the purchasing agent determines in his or her reasonable
discretion that such participation will be in the best interest of the City in
light of the purposes stated in section
2-2-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-22: PERIOD OF TIME FOR CONTRACT OF SUPPLIES OR SERVICES:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided by law, a contract for supplies or services
may be entered into for any period of time deemed to be in the best interests
of the City; provided, that the term of the contract and conditions of renewal
or expansion, if any, are included in the solicitation and funds are available
for the first fiscal period at the time of contracting. Payment and performance
obligations for succeeding fiscal periods shall be subject to the availability
and appropriation of funds by the City Council.
   B.   When funds are not appropriated or otherwise made available to support
continuation of performance in a subsequent fiscal period, the contract shall
be canceled. The contractor may apply for reimbursement for the reasonable
value of any nonrecurring costs incurred, but not amortized in the price of the
supplies or services delivered under the contract, which may be awarded in the
reasonable discretion of the purchasing agent. The cost of cancellation may be
paid from any appropriations available for that purpose. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-
2018)
2-2-23: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
The failure to follow any provision of this chapter shall not render
procurement invalid, nor give a bidder or proponent a claim or right against
the City or the employee responsible for such failure. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
2-2-24: E-VERIFY PROGRAM:
All bidders and contractors under this chapter shall be required to participate
in the e-verify program. (Ord. 30-2018, 5-8-2018)
CHAPTER 3
IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Impact Fees Imposed
2-3-2: Service Area
2-3-3: Adjustment Of Impact Fee
2-3-4: Administrative Challenges And Appeals Procedure
2-3-5: Accounting, Expenditure And Refund Of Impact Fees
2-3-1: IMPACT FEES IMPOSED:
Impact fees are imposed as a condition of the issuance of a building permit by
the city for any development activity which creates additional demand and need
for public facilities for fire/EMS, police, parks and recreation, culinary
water, secondary water, storm drain, sewer, transportation and electric power,
as set forth in the city consolidated fee schedule. Applicant shall be entitled
to a credit or refund, if applicable, for any impact fees previously paid for
the same building permit or development activity. (Ord. 09-2011, 4-26-2011)
2-3-2: SERVICE AREA:
The entire area of the city and any areas outside of the city serviced by such
systems are designated and established as one service area with respect to
fire/EMS, police, parks and recreation, culinary water, secondary water, storm
drain, sewer, transportation and electric power. (Ord. 04-22-08.13, 4-22-2008,
eff. 5-26-2008)
2-3-3: ADJUSTMENT OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   The city may adjust the impact fees imposed pursuant to this chapter as
necessary in order to:
      1.   Respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases;
      2.   Ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly;
      3.   Permit the adjustment of the amount of the fee based upon studies
and data submitted by an applicant as approved by the city council in order to
ensure that the fee represents the proportionate share of the costs of
providing such facilities which are reasonably related to and necessary in
order to provide the services in question to anticipated future growth and
development activities; and
      4.   Allow credits against impact fees for dedication of land for
improvement to or new construction of any system improvements as defined by the
Utah impact fees act.
   B.   The city administrator shall have the authority to make such
adjustments based upon information submitted by an applicant and any
recommendations from the city engineer.
   C.   The city administrator may adopt policies consistent with this chapter
and any resolutions passed by the city council to assist in the implementation,
administration and interpretation of this chapter related to municipal impact
fees.
   D.   If the applicant, person or entity is not satisfied with the city
administrator decision, a further appeal may be made to the city council under
the procedures set forth in section
2-3-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 04-22-08.13, 4-22-2008, eff. 5-26-2008)
2-3-4: ADMINISTRATIVE CHALLENGES AND APPEALS PROCEDURE:
   A.   Any person or entity required to pay an impact fee who believes the fee
does not meet the requirements of law may file a written request for
information with the city as provided by the Utah impact fees act and any other
relevant information relating to the impact fee.
   B.   Any person or entity residing in or owning property within the city who
believes the fee does not meet the requirements of the law or wishes to
challenge the fee shall file a written appeal within thirty (30) calendar days
after payment of any impact fee with the city administrator setting forth in
detail all factual and legal grounds in support of the appeal. Upon receipt of
the appeal, the city administrator shall make a recommendation to the city
council and schedule a public hearing before the city council on the appeal for
the purpose of receiving input from all interested persons. The city council
shall thereafter render its decision on the appeal no later than thirty (30)
days after the date the appeal was filed. Any person or entity who has failed
to comply with these administrative remedies may not file or join an action
challenging the validity of any impact fee.
   C.   Any person or entity who was a party to an appeal under this section
who is adversely affected by the decision of the city council may petition the
district court for a review of the decision within ninety (90) days of a
decision upholding an impact fee by the city council or within one hundred
twenty (120) days after the date the challenge to the impact fee was filed,
whichever is earlier. Such a declaratory judgment action or petition for review
challenging the validity of the fee shall be filed in the fourth district court
for Utah County.
   D.   In the event a petition is filed with the court, the city shall
transmit to the reviewing court the record of its proceedings, including the
minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a true and correct transcript of
its proceedings.
   E.   If the proceeding was tape recorded, a transcript of that tape
recording is a true and correct transcript for the purposes of subsection D of
this section.
   F.   If there is a record:
      1.   The district court review is limited to the record provided by the
city; and
      2.   The court may not accept or consider any evidence outside the city
record unless that evidence was offered to the city and the court determines
that it was improperly excluded by the city.
   G.   If there is an inadequate record, the court may call witnesses and take
evidence.
   H.   The court shall affirm the decision of the city if the decision was
supported by substantial evidence in the record.
   I.   The judge may award reasonable attorney fees and costs to the
prevailing party in any action brought under this section. (Ord. 04-22-08.13,
4-22-2008, eff. 5-26-2008)
2-3-5: ACCOUNTING, EXPENDITURE AND REFUND OF IMPACT FEES:
The impact fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited into a
separate interest bearing ledger account and may only be used for capital
improvements for which the fees were collected. The accounting, expenditure and
refund of all such impact fees collected shall be handled in accordance with
the provisions of the Utah impact fees act. (Ord. 04-22-08.13, 4-22-2008, eff.
5-26-2008)
CHAPTER 4
TAXES
ARTICLE A. PROPERTY TAXES
SECTION:
2-4A-1: Certified Tax Rate
2-4A-2: Basis For Determining Levy
2-4A-3: Apportionment To Separate Funds
2-4A-4: Limit On Certified Tax Rate
2-4A-5: Certification Of Certified Tax Rate
2-4A-1: CERTIFIED TAX RATE:
Not later than June 22 of each year, or August 17 in the case of a property tax
rate increase, the city council shall, by resolution, adopt a certified tax
rate on the real and personal property within the city made taxable by law for
the various municipal purposes. (2015 Code)
2-4A-2: BASIS FOR DETERMINING LEVY:
From the effective date of the budget or any amendment thereof adopted prior to
the date on which property taxes are levied, the amount stated therein as the
amount of estimated revenue from property taxes shall constitute the basis for
a determination of the amount of the property tax levy to be imposed by the
city during the corresponding tax year, subject to any applicable limitations
or imposed by state law. (2015 Code)
2-4A-3: APPORTIONMENT TO SEPARATE FUNDS:
The city council shall, in its computation of the certified tax rate, determine
the requirements of each fund for which property taxes are to be levied and
shall specify in its resolution adopting said levy the amount of the levy
apportioned to each of said funds. The proceeds of said levy apportioned for
general fund purposes shall be received as revenue of the general fund. The
proceeds of said levy apportioned for utility and other special fund purposes
shall be credited to the appropriate accounts in the utility or other special
funds. (2015 Code)
2-4A-4: LIMIT ON CERTIFIED TAX RATE:
The certified tax rate for all purposes in any fiscal year, except in the
retirement of general obligation bonds and the payment of interest thereon, and
other taxes expressly authorized by law to be levied in addition thereto, shall
not exceed the maximum certified tax rate authorized by state law. (2015 Code)
2-4A-5: CERTIFICATION OF CERTIFIED TAX RATE:
The city recorder shall certify the resolution making the annual certified tax
rate to the county auditor within the time required by state law. (2015 Code)
ARTICLE B. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
2-4B-1: Title
2-4B-2: Purpose
2-4B-3: Tax Levied
2-4B-4: Exemptions From Taxes
2-4B-5: Contract With State Tax Commission
2-4B-6: Distribution Of Tax Revenues
2-4B-7: Report Of Tax Collections; Point Of Sale; Public Utilities
2-4B-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the UNIFORM LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF
LEHI CITY. (2015 Code)
2-4B-2: PURPOSE:
The Utah legislature has authorized municipalities to adopt an ordinance that
imposes a one percent (1%) sales and use tax. It is the purpose of this article
to conform the city sales and use tax ordinance to the requirements of the
local sales and use tax act, and successor provisions. (2015 Code)
2-4B-3: TAX LEVIED:
   A.   City Sales And Use Tax Levied: There are levied and there shall be
collected and paid taxes, as follows:
      1.   A tax at the rate of one percent (1%) is imposed upon every retail
sale of tangible personal property, services or meals, and items listed in Utah
Code Annotated section 59-12-103, or successor sections, and any other retail
sale permitted by law which is made within the city; and
      2.   An excise tax at the rate of one percent (1%) is imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the city of tangible personal property or
any items listed in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-103, or any successor
provisions, and any others allowed by law.
   B.   Place Of Sales Defined: For the purpose of this article, all retail
sales shall be presumed to have been consummated at the place of business of
the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out of state destination. If a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the state, or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by the
state tax commission. The place of sale or the sales tax revenues arising from
public utility services allocable to the city shall be as determined by the
state tax commission, pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   C.   State Law Incorporated By Reference: Except as herein provided and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of the Utah local
sales and use tax act, all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, as amended, insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes,
excepting section 59-12-101, and the amount of the sales or use tax levied
therein, are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set
forth herein.
   D.   Exceptions To State Law Incorporated: Wherever, and to the extent that
Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, the state of Utah
is named or referred to as the "taxing agency", the name of this city shall be
substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require
substitution of the name of the city for the word "state" when that word is
used as part of the title of the state tax commission, or of the constitution
of Utah, nor shall the name of the city be substituted for that of the state in
any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against the city or any agency thereof, rather than by or against
the state tax commission in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this article.
   E.   Incorporated From State Law Amendments: Any amendments made by the Utah
legislature to Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended,
which would be applicable to the city, are hereby incorporated herein by
reference and shall be effective upon the date they are effective as a Utah
statute.
   F.   Governmental Purchase Sales Tax Exemption: There shall be excluded from
the purchase price paid or charged by which the tax is measured:
      1.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
      2.   Receipts from the sale of tangible personal property upon which a
sales or use tax has become due by reason of the same transaction to any other
municipality or any county in the state, under a sales or use tax ordinance
enacted by that county or municipality in accordance with the Utah local sales
and use tax act. (2015 Code)
2-4B-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAXES:
The sale, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property, the
gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of which has been subject to sales
or use tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Utah
Code Annotated section 59-12-104, as amended, by a county other than Utah
County or by any other Utah city or town, shall be exempt from the tax. (2015
Code)
2-4B-5: CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
The contract entered into with the state tax commission to perform all
functions incident to the administration or operation of the sales and use tax
ordinance of the city is confirmed. The mayor is authorized to negotiate and
arrange such supplementary agreements with the state tax commission as may be
necessary to the continued administration and operation of this article. (2015
Code)
2-4B-6: DISTRIBUTION OF TAX REVENUES:
The tax revenues collected by the state tax commission for the city pursuant to
section
2-4B-5 of this article shall be distributed according to the provisions of
state law. The mayor is authorized to execute whatever documents are necessary
to distribute sales and use tax revenues on the combination of point of sale
and population factors set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-205, or
successor provisions. (2015 Code)
2-4B-7: REPORT OF TAX COLLECTIONS; POINT OF SALE; PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Retailer Duty To Report: All sales and use taxes collected under this
article shall be reported to the state tax commission on forms which accurately
identify the location where the sale or use transaction was consummated. If a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated for the purposes of this article shall be determined under rules of
the state tax commission.
   B.   Public Utilities Reporting Duty: "Public utilities", as defined by Utah
Code Annotated title 54, as amended, are not obligated to determine the place
or places within the county where public utility services are rendered, and the
state tax commission shall apportion the revenues arising from such services,
on an equitable basis, pursuant to an appropriate formula and under rules to be
prescribed and adopted by it. (2015 Code)
ARTICLE C. TRANSIENT ROOM SERVICES TAX
SECTION:
2-4C-1: Definitions
2-4C-2: Tax Imposed
2-4C-3: Gross Receipts
2-4C-4: Collection Of Tax
2-4C-5: Penalties And Interest
2-4C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION: A place providing temporary sleeping accommodations to
the public and includes:
   A.   A motel;
   B.   A hotel;
   C.   A motor court;
   D.   An inn;
   E.   A bed and breakfast establishment;
   F.   A condominium; and
   G.   A resort home.
RENTS: Include:
   A.   Amounts paid or charged for transient accommodations and services in a
tourist home, hotel, motel or trailer court which is regularly rented for less
than thirty (30) consecutive days; and
   B.   Timeshare fees or dues.
TRANSIENT: A person who occupies a public accommodation for thirty (30)
consecutive days or less. (2015 Code)
2-4C-2: TAX IMPOSED:
There is levied a transient room tax on the rents charged to transients
occupying public accommodations in an amount that is equal to one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts derived from the rents charged. (2015 Code)
2-4C-3: GROSS RECEIPTS:
For purposes of this article, gross receipts shall be computed upon the base
room rental rate. There shall be excluded from the gross receipts, by which the
annual license fee is calculated, the following:
   A.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state of Utah or by
any other government agency upon a retailer or consumer;
   B.   The amount of any transient room tax levied under authority of Utah
Code Annotated title 17, chapter 31, as amended, or its successor;
   C.   Receipts from the sale of or service charge for any food, beverage or
room service charges in conjunction with the occupancy of the suite or room not
included in the base room rate; and
   D.   Charges made for supplying telephone service, gas or electrical energy
service not included in the base room rate. (2015 Code)
2-4C-4: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   When Due: The tax imposed by this article shall be due and payable to
the city treasurer quarterly on or before the thirtieth day of the month
following each calendar quarter, the first of such quarterly periods being the
period commencing with July 1, 1996.
   B.   Report Filed: Every person or business taxed hereunder shall, on or
before the thirtieth day of the month following each calendar quarter, file
with the city treasurer's office a report of its gross revenue for the
preceding quarterly period. The report shall be accompanied by a remittance of
the amount of tax due for the period covered by the report.
   C.   Contract For Administration And Operation: The mayor is authorized to
negotiate a contract with the state tax commission to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this article. (2015 Code)
2-4C-5: PENALTIES AND INTEREST:
   A.   Penalty: The penalty for failure to file a report within the time
prescribed in this article is the greater of twenty dollars ($20.00) or ten
percent (10%) of the unpaid tax due on the report.
   B.   Interest: Interest on any underpayment, deficiency or delinquency of
any tax or fee administered by the commission shall be computed from the time
the original return is due, to the date the payment received, at the rate of
two (2) percentage points above the federal short term rate. (2015 Code)
ARTICLE D. TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
2-4D-1: Definitions
2-4D-2: Levy Of Tax
2-4D-3: Rate Of Tax
2-4D-4: Effective Date Of Tax Levy
2-4D-5: Changes In Rate Or Repeal Of Tax
2-4D-6: Interlocal Agreement For Collection Of Tax
2-4D-7: Procedures For Taxes Erroneously Recovered From Customers
2-4D-8: Repeal Of Inconsistent Taxes And Fees
2-4D-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
   COMMISSION: The state tax commission.
   CUSTOMER: A. Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, the person
who is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications provider to pay for
telecommunications service received under the contract.
   B.   For purposes of this article, "customer" means:
      1. The person who is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications
provider to pay for telecommunications service received under the contract; or
      2. If the end user is not the person described in subsection B1 of this
definition, the end user of the telecommunications service.
   C.   "Customer" does not include a reseller:
      1. Of telecommunications service; or
      2. For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's
licensed service area.
   END USER: A. The person who uses a telecommunications service.
   B.   For purposes of telecommunications service provided to a person who is
not an individual, "end user" means the individual who uses the
telecommunications service on behalf of the person who is provided the
telecommunications service.
   GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE CITY: Those gross receipts from a
transaction for telecommunications services that is located within the city for
purposes of sales and use taxes under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
the sales and use tax act, and determined in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-207.
   GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered,
except for amounts collected or paid as:
   A.   A tax, fee or charge:
      1. Imposed by a governmental entity;
      2. Separately identified as a tax, fee or charge in the transaction with
the customer for the telecommunications service; and
      3. Imposed only on a telecommunications provider;
   B.   Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a
customer under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, the sales and use tax
act; or
   C.   Interest, a fee or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications
provider on a customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when
payment is due.
   MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: As defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
   PLACE OF PRIMARY USE: A. For telecommunications service, other than mobile
telecommunications service, the street address representative of where the
customer's use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which shall
be:
      1. The residential street address of the customer; or
      2. The primary business street address of the customer; or
   B.   For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
   SERVICE ADDRESS: Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid, means:
   A.   If the location described in this subsection A is known, the location
of the telecommunications equipment:
      1. To which a call is charged; and
      2. From which the call originates or terminates;
   B.   If the location described in subsection A of this definition is not
known but the location described in this subsection B is known, the location of
the origination point of the signal of the telecommunications service first
identified by:
      1. The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
      2. If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the
telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider; or
   C.   If the locations described in subsection A or B of this definition are
not known, the location of a customer's place of primary use.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: A. Subject to subsections B and C of this
definition, a person that:
      1. Owns, controls, operates or manages a telecommunications service; or
      2. Engages in an activity described in subsection A1 of this definition
for the shared use with or resale to any person of the telecommunications
service.
   B.   A person described in subsection A of this definition is a
telecommunications provider whether or not the public service commission of
Utah regulates:
      1. That person; or
      2. The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls,
operates or manages.
   C.   "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator as defined
in Utah Code Annotated section 54-8b-2.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: A. "Telephone service", as defined in Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-102, other than mobile telecommunications service, that
originates and terminates within the boundaries of this state; and
   B.   "Mobile telecommunications service", as defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-102:
      1. That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state; and
      2. Only to the extent permitted by the mobile telecommunications sourcing
act, 4 USC section 116 et seq. (2015 Code)
2-4D-2: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to the city. (2015 Code)
2-4D-3: RATE OF TAX:
   A.   The rate of the tax levy shall be three and one-half percent (3.5%) of
the telecommunication provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service
that are attributed to the city. If the location of a transaction is determined
to be other than this city, then the rate imposed on the gross receipts for
telecommunications services shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of
Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-407.
   B.   The rate of this levy shall not exceed three and one-half percent
(3.5%) of the telecommunications provider's gross receipts from
telecommunication service attributed to the city, unless a higher rate is
approved by a majority vote of the voters in the city that vote in:
      1.   A municipal general election;
      2.   Regular general election; or
      3.   A local special election. (2015 Code)
2-4D-4: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX LEVY:
This tax shall be levied beginning July 1, 2004. (2015 Code)
2-4D-5: CHANGES IN RATE OR REPEAL OF TAX:
This article is subject to the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 10-
1-403. If the tax rate is changed or the tax is repealed, then the appropriate
notice shall be given as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-403.
(2015 Code)
2-4D-6: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR COLLECTION OF TAX:
On or before the effective date hereof, the city shall enter into a uniform
interlocal agreement with the state tax commission, as described in Utah Code
Annotated section 10-1-405, for the collection, enforcement and administration
of this municipal telecommunications license tax. (2015 Code)
2-4D-7: PROCEDURES FOR TAXES ERRONEOUSLY RECOVERED FROM CUSTOMERS:
Pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-408, a customer
may not bring a cause of action against a telecommunications provider on the
basis that the telecommunications provider erroneously recovered from the
customer the municipal telecommunications license tax, except as provided in
Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-408. (2015 Code)
2-4D-8: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT TAXES AND FEES:
   A.   Any tax or fee previously enacted by the city under authority of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-1-203, or title 11, chapter 26, local taxation of
utilities limitation, is hereby repealed.
   B.   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to repeal any city
ordinance or fee which provides that the city may recover from a
telecommunications provider the management costs of the city caused by the
activities of the telecommunications provider in the rights of way of the city,
if the fee is imposed in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 72-7-102,
and is not related to the city's loss of use of a highway as a result of the
activities of the telecommunications provider in a right of way, or increased
deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the
telecommunications provider in a right of way, nor does this article limit the
city's right to charge fees or taxes on persons that are not subject to the
municipal telecommunications license tax under this article and locate
"telecommunication facilities", as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 72-7-
108, in the city. (2015 Code)
ARTICLE E. MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
2-4E-1: Purpose
2-4E-2: Definitions
2-4E-3: Municipal Energy Sales And Use Tax Levied
2-4E-4: Exemptions
2-4E-5: No Effect Upon Existing Franchises; Credit For Franchise Fee
2-4E-6: Tax Collection Contract With State Tax Commission
2-4E-7: Incorporation Of State Statutes, Including Amendments
2-4E-8: No Additional License Or Reporting Requirements
2-4E-1: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of the city to adopt the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to, and in conformance with, Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-301 et
seq., the municipal energy sales and use tax act. (1984 Code § 3.36.010)
2-4E-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
   CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject
to the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE: A. A fee:
      1. Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
      2. That is under consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   B.   A fee similar to subsection A of this definition; or
   C.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
   DELIVERED VALUE: A. The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered
for sale or use in the city and includes:
      1. The value of the energy itself; and
      2. Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service charges,
or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable form to
each class of customer in the city.
   B.   "Delivered value" does not include the amount of a tax paid under Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1 or part 2.
   ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimus amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded
by rule promulgated by the state tax commission.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract or agreement
granting a franchise.
   FRANCHISE TAX: A. A franchise tax;
   B.   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   C.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
   PERSON: Means and includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate,
this state, any county, city, municipality, district, or other local
governmental entity of the state, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
   SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise,
in any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
   A.   Installment and credit sales;
   B.   Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C.   Any transaction under which right to acquire use of consumer taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract, and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
   STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in Lehi City for any
purpose, except sale in the regular course of business.
   TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
   USE: A. The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to
the ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
   B.   "Use" does not include the sale, display, demonstration or trial of the
taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (1984
Code § 3.36.020)
2-4E-3: MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX LEVIED:
There is levied, subject to the provisions of this article, a tax on every sale
or use of taxable energy made within the city equaling six percent (6%) of the
delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax shall be known
as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   A.   The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer.
   B.   The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on taxable energy
imposed by Lehi City authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
part 2, the local sales and use tax act. (1984 Code § 3.36.030)
2-4E-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax
except as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b),
notwithstanding an exemption granted by Utah Code Annotated section 59-1-104.
   B.   The following are exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b):
      1.   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel, and special fuels
subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      2.   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
federal law, the United States constitution, or the Utah constitution;
      3.   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
      4.   Sales or use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a
fuel subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      5.   Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident living or
working in the state at the time of purchase;
      6.   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      7.   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the
city.
   C.   The sale, storage, use or other consumption of taxable energy is exempt
from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this chapter, provided:
      1.   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
state authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 3; and
      2.   The city is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this article, if the
tax due under this article exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.
(1984 Code § 3.36.040)
2-4E-5: NO EFFECT UPON EXISTING FRANCHISES; CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   This article shall not alter any existing franchise agreements between
the city and energy suppliers.
   B.   There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the amount
of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the city
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 1997;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (1984 Code §
3.36.050)
2-4E-6: TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
   A.   The city shall contract with the state tax commission to perform all
functions incident to the administration and collection of the municipal energy
sales and use tax, in accordance with this article. This contract may be a
supplement to the existing contract with the commission to administer and
collect the local sales and use tax, as provided in article B of this chapter.
The mayor is authorized to enter agreements with the state tax commission that
may be necessary to the continued administration and operation of the municipal
energy sales and use tax ordinance enacted by this article.
   B.   An energy supplier shall pay the municipal energy sales and use tax
revenues collected from consumers directly to the city monthly if:
      1.   The city is the energy supplier; or
      2.   a. The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales and
use tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more; and
         b.   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   C.   An energy supplier paying the municipal energy sales and use tax
directly to the city may deduct any contractual franchise fees collected by the
energy supplier qualifying as a credit and remit the net tax less any amount
the energy supplier retains as authorized by Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-
307(4). (1984 Code § 3.36.060)
2-4E-7: INCORPORATION OF STATE STATUTES, INCLUDING AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 1, part 3, the
municipal energy sales and use tax act, as well as this article, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, and
in force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to
sales and use taxes, excepting Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-101, and
excepting for the amount of the sales and use taxes levied therein, are adopted
and made a part of this article as if fully set forth herein. (1984 Code §
3.36.070; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, as amended, the state of Utah is named or referred to as
the "taxing agency", the name of Lehi City shall be substituted, insofar as is
necessary for the purpose of that part, as well as Utah Code Annotated title
10, chapter 1, part 3, as amended. Nothing in this subsection B shall be deemed
to require substitution of the name Lehi City for the word "state" when that
word is used as part of the title of the state tax commission, or in the
constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of Lehi City be substituted for that
of the state in any section when the result of such a substitution would
require action to be taken by or against Lehi City or any agency thereof,
rather than by or against the state tax commission in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this article.
   C.   Any amendments made to Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part
1, as amended, which would be applicable to the city for the purpose of
carrying out this article, are incorporated herein by reference and shall be
effective upon the date that they are effective as a Utah statute. (1984 Code §
3.36.070)
2-4E-8: NO ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
No additional license to collect or report municipal energy sales and use tax
levied by this article is required, provided the energy supplier collecting the
tax has a license issued under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106. (1984
Code § 3.36.080)
CHAPTER 5
SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
2-5-1: Definition
2-5-2: Disposal Of Surplus Personal Property
2-5-1: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this chapter, the following word shall have the following
meaning:
    PERSONAL PROPERTY: Tangible city property that is movable. (Ord. 01-2013,
1-8-2013)
2-5-2: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Compliance Required: No city owned personal property, except personal
property that is consumed in normal operations, shall be disposed of or
released to ownership by anyone other than the city, unless the transaction is
in compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Notification; Transfer: Whenever city owned property is surplus,
unused, obsolete, unsuitable or otherwise no longer needed, the department head
having control of such property shall promptly notify the city administrator or
a designee. The city administrator or a designee shall then notify other city
departments of the availability of such property. The city administrator or a
designee shall supervise the transfer of such property to the department
requesting the property and adjust the city inventory control to document the
transfer. If no use can be made of the property or is expected to be made
within the reasonably foreseeable future, the property shall be disposed of as
provided below.
   C.   Personal Property Exceeding Two Thousand Dollars: The city
administrator or a designee shall prepare and present a listing to the city
council of all city owned personal property with an estimated value of equal to
or exceeding two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) which is deemed no longer needed
by the city and which can be declared surplus by resolution of the city
council. The city administrator or a designee shall proceed to sell such
surplus property based on the highest and best economic return to the city. The
highest and best economic return to the city, as referred to above, shall be
determined by one or more of the following methods: 1) advertised competitive
bid (including auction); 2) evaluation by a qualified and disinterested
appraiser; 3) other professional publication and valuation service; or 4) an
informal market survey by the city administrator or a designee. The city
administrator shall determine the best forum for the sale of the personal
property so long as a notice of the sale has been posted on the city website
and at least one public place ten (10) days prior to the event. Monetary
proceeds from the sale or other disposition of such property pursuant to this
section shall be credited to the fund that originally purchased the property,
if it can be determined. If the fund from which the property was originally
purchased cannot be determined, the default fund shall be the general fund.
Property initially valued at over two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) that does
not sell shall be disposed of as described in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Personal Property Two Thousand Dollars Or Below: All personal property
with a value of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) or less as estimated by the
city administrator or designee may be disposed of at the discretion of the city
administrator or designee, with the consent of the mayor after compliance with
subsection B of this section. Disposal of personal property may include, but is
not limited to, donating property to a bona fide charity, or transferring
property to a salvage or junk yard, or landfill. (Ord. 01-2013, 1-8-2013)
TITLE 3
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: Commission Established; Members; Terms
3-1-3: Commission Duties
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
The city recognizes that the historical heritage of the city is among its most
valued and important assets. It is therefor the intent of the city to identify,
preserve, protect and enhance historic areas and sites lying within the city
limits. The historic preservation commission shall be responsible for surveying
and inventorying community historic resources, reviewing proposed nominations
to the national register of historic places, providing advice and information
to city officials and other governmental officials and supporting enforcement
of state historic preservation laws. (1984 Code § 12.28.010)
3-1-2: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS; TERMS:
A historic preservation commission is hereby established by the city with the
following provisions: (1984 Code § 12.28.020)
   A.   The commission shall consist of a minimum of five (5) members with a
demonstrated interest, competence or knowledge in historic preservation,
appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, for
terms of not less than two (2) years. (1984 Code § 12.28.020; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   To the extent available in the community, two (2) commission members
shall be professionals, as defined by national park service regulations, from
the disciplines of history, archaeology, planning, architecture or
architectural history.
   C.   The commission shall meet at least twice each year and conduct business
in accordance with the open public meeting laws of the state. This includes
public notification of meeting place, time and agenda items.
   D.   Written minutes of each commission meeting shall be prepared and made
available for public inspection. (1984 Code § 12.28.020)
3-1-3: COMMISSION DUTIES:
The historic preservation commission shall have the following duties:
   A.   Survey And Inventory Community Historic Resources: The historic
preservation commission shall conduct or cause to be conducted survey of the
historic, architectural and archaeological resources within the community. The
survey shall be compatible with the Utah inventory of historic and
archaeological sites. Survey and inventory documents shall be maintained and
shall be open to the public. The survey shall be updated at least every ten
(10) years.
   B.   Review Proposed Nominations To The National Register Of Historic
Places: The historic preservation commission shall review and comment to the
state historic preservation officer on all proposed national register
nominations for properties within the boundaries of the city. When the historic
preservation commission considers a national register nomination which is
normally evaluated by professionals in a specific discipline and that
discipline is not represented on the commission, the commission shall seek
expertise in that area before rendering its decision.
   C.   Provide Advice And Information:
      1.   The historic preservation commission shall act in an advisory role
to other officials and departments of government regarding the identification
and protection of local historic and archaeological resources.
      2.   The historic preservation commission shall work toward the
continuing education of citizens regarding historic preservation and community
history. (1984 Code § 12.28.030)
   D.   Enforcement Of State Historic Preservation Laws: The commission shall
support the enforcement of all state laws relating to historic preservation.
(1984 Code § 12.28.030; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-2-1: Creation
3-2-2: Powers And Duties
3-2-3: Qualifications For Membership
3-2-4: Membership; Appointment, Removal, Terms And Vacancies
3-2-5: Alternate Members
3-2-6: Recording Secretary
3-2-7: Quorum And Necessary Vote
3-2-8: Meetings, Hearings And Procedure
3-2-1: CREATION:
There is hereby created and established a Lehi City planning commission
("planning commission"). (2015 Code)
3-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall be an advisory body to the city council in making
decisions pertaining to amendments to the Lehi City general plan and the Lehi
City development code. The planning commission shall have the following powers
and duties:
   A.   To prepare or cause to be prepared a general plan or element thereof
and to submit the proposed general plan or element(s) to the city council;
   B.   To prepare or cause to be prepared amendments to the general plan or
elements thereof from time to time and to submit the proposed amendments to the
city council;
   C.   To review and make recommendations to the city council with regard to
amendments to the Lehi City general plan land use map(s);
   D.   To review and make recommendations to the city council with regard to
interpretations of authorized permitted and conditional uses;
   E.   To initiate, hear, review and make recommendations to the city council
on applications for amendments to the text or zoning district map of the Lehi
City development code;
   F.   To hear, review, recommend approval or disapproval, or approve or
disapprove applications for development approval, as authorized in accordance
with the provisions of the Lehi City development code;
   G.   To hear and decide appeals from the actions of the development review
committee; and
   H.   To adopt bylaws, policies, procedures and regulations for the conduct
of its duties and meetings, for the consideration of applications for
development approval, and for any other purposes deemed necessary for the
functioning of the commission provided; that, such bylaws, policies, procedures
and regulations shall be consistent with the Lehi City development code and
shall be approved by the city council before taking effect. (2015 Code)
3-2-3: QUALIFICATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP:
Members of the commission shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council from the qualified electors of the city. (2015
Code)
3-2-4: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL, TERMS AND VACANCIES:
   A.   The commission shall be composed of five (5) members to be appointed by
the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council. Each member of the
city council shall be authorized to submit names of candidates.
   B.   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, may remove
any member of the commission without cause.
   C.   Members of the commission may be compensated on a per diem basis, based
upon the meetings actually attended and reasonable and necessary expenses, as
determined by the city council.
   D.   All members shall serve a term of three (3) years. No member shall
serve more than three (3) consecutive terms. Prior to serving their first term
or any subsequent term to which they may be reappointed, each commissioner
shall take the oath of office.
   E.   At an annual organizational meeting, the members of the commission
shall elect one of their members as chair and one of their members as vice
chair. In the absence of the chair, the vice chair shall act as chair and shall
have all powers of the chair. The chair shall serve a term of one year. No
member shall serve as chair for more than two (2) consecutive terms.
   F.   The chair, or in the chair's absence the vice chair, shall administer
oaths, shall be in charge of all proceedings before the commission, and shall
take such action as necessary to preserve order and the integrity of all
proceedings before the commission.  (2015 Code; amd. Ord. 09-2023, 1-24-2023)
3-2-5: ALTERNATE MEMBERS:
   A.   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, may appoint
up to two (2) alternate planning commissioners who may act with the full powers
and duties of a regular planning commissioner, however, an alternate member may
vote only in the absence of a regular member. The senior alternate member will
be the first to replace an absent regular member.
   B.   Except for illness or other unforeseen circumstances, regular members
shall notify the Recording Secretary at least one (1) week in advance of a
meeting if they are unable to attend so that an alternate member can be
prepared to attend in their place.
   C.   Alternate members may attend a meeting even if all regular members are
present. However, they will sit in the audience and not participate in the
discussion and debate with the regular members.
   D.   Alternate members shall not vote in the place of a member who abstains
from voting unless that member completely withdraws from the discussion and
removes themselves from the commission table during the consideration of the
matter upon which the commissioner abstains. Under such circumstances, the
alternate member may sit as a replacement for the regular member for that
particular agenda item.
   E.   The appointment and participation of alternate members does not
increase the number of members of the commission nor does it increase the
number of members constituting a quorum required to take action. When an
alternate member fills in for an absent or abstaining regular member, such
alternate is considered to be a regular member for the purpose of that meeting
or agenda item.
   F.   Alternate members shall serve a term of three (3) years. (2015 Code;
amd. Ord. 09-2023, 1-24-2023)
3-2-6: RECORDING SECRETARY:
The mayor shall appoint a recording secretary to serve the commission. The
recording secretary shall keep the minutes of all proceedings of the
commission, which minutes shall be the official record of all proceedings
before the commission, attested by a majority vote of the members of the
commission. The recording secretary shall maintain all records of commission
meetings, hearings and proceedings, and handle the correspondence of the
commission. (2015 Code)
3-2-7: QUORUM AND NECESSARY VOTE:
No meeting of the commission may be called to order, nor may any business be
transacted without a quorum consisting of at least three (3) members of the
commission being present. The chair shall be included for purposes of
establishing a quorum and shall act as a voting member of the commission. All
actions shall require the vote of a majority of the members of the commission.
(2015 Code; amd. Ord. 09-2023, 1-24-2023)
3-2-8: MEETINGS, HEARINGS AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   The commission shall establish a regular meeting schedule.
   B.   Special meetings may be requested by the city council, the chair of the
commission, or a majority of the members of the commission.
   C.   If a matter is postponed due to lack of a quorum, the chair shall
reschedule the matter to the next available commission meeting. The recording
secretary shall notify interested parties and all members of the commission of
the date of the continued meeting. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
LAND USE HEARING EXAMINER
SECTION:
3-3-1: Creation
3-3-2: Powers And Duties
3-3-3: Qualifications For Membership
3-3-4: Recording Secretary
3-3-5: Meetings, Hearings And Procedure
3-3-6: Filing Fee
3-3-1: CREATION:
There is hereby created and established a Lehi City land use hearing examiner
("hearing examiner"). (Ord. 39-2016, 7-12-2016)
3-3-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The hearing examiner shall hear and decide:
      1.   Appeals from final administrative decisions of the zoning
administrator applying the provisions of this code;
      2.   Variances from the terms of this code with a finding of unreasonable
hardship as allowed by chapter 25 of the city development code;
      3.   Interpretations of a zoning district boundary line as allowed by
section 02-020 of the city development code;
      4.   Appeals from planning commission decisions concerning conditional
use permits;
      5.   Requests for the issuance of a building permit authorizing the
reconstruction, remodeling, expansion or enlargement of a nonconforming
building or structure.
   B.   The hearing examiner shall not have power, jurisdiction or authority to
consider any of the following:
      1.   Variances to any of the standards governing approval of
subdivisions, site plans, or conditional use permits; or
      2.   Amendments to the general plan, and any element or map thereof or
any provision, requirement or map of this code, the zoning district map(s),
including the permissible use of land within any zoning district. (Ord. 39-
2016, 7-12-2016)
3-3-3: QUALIFICATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The hearing examiner shall be retained by the mayor or the mayor's
designee as needed to fulfill the duties and responsibilities described in this
chapter and shall be an attorney currently licensed to practice law in Utah.
The hearing examiner shall have experience in Utah municipal land use law,
municipal land use code, constitutional due process requirements, and
administrative or quasi-judicial hearings.
   B.   The hearing examiner shall be compensated based upon the terms in an
agreement signed by the mayor or the mayor's designee and shall be an
independent contractor. (Ord. 39-2016, 7-12-2016)
3-3-4: RECORDING SECRETARY:
The city recorder shall provide a recording secretary to serve the hearing
examiner. The recording secretary shall keep minutes of all proceedings of the
hearing examiner, which minutes shall be the official record of all proceedings
before the hearing examiner, attested to by the hearing examiner. The recording
secretary shall maintain all records of hearing examiner meetings, hearings and
proceedings, and handle the correspondence of the hearing examiner. (Ord. 39-
2016, 7-12-2016)
3-3-5: MEETINGS, HEARINGS AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Meetings: Meetings of the hearing examiner shall be held only as
necessary to fulfill the duties and responsibilities described in subsection
3-3-2A of this chapter.
   B.   Other Duties: The hearing examiner may adopt rules in accordance with
the provisions of state law, this chapter, and any other applicable city
ordinance. Meetings of the hearing examiner shall be held at such times as the
hearing examiner may determine. The hearing examiner may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the hearing examiner shall
be subject to the Utah open meetings act.
   C.   Written Statement Setting Forth Theories Of Relief Required: The
appellant shall deliver to the hearing examiner and all other participants,
five (5) business days prior to the hearing, a written statement setting forth
each and every theory of relief the appellant intends to raise at the hearing,
along with a brief statement of facts in support thereof.
   D.   Condition Precedent To Judicial Review: No theory of relief may be
raised in the district court unless it was timely and specifically presented to
the appeal authority.
   E.   Standard Of Review And Burden Of Proof On Appeal: The hearing examiner
shall, on appeal, presume that the decision applying the land use ordinance is
valid and determine only whether or not the decision is arbitrary, capricious,
or illegal. The burden of proof on appeal is on the appellant. (Ord. 39-2016,
7-12-2016)
3-3-6: FILING FEE:
Upon filing of any appeal or application to the hearing examiner, the appellant
or applicant shall pay to the city a fee prescribed by the city council in the
consolidated fee schedule. The said fee shall be collected by the officer in
whose office said appeal is filed and shall be deposited with the city
treasurer and credited to the general fund. No appeal or application shall be
considered by the hearing examiner unless and until such fee has been paid.
(Ord. 39-2016, 7-12-2016)
CHAPTER 4
PARKS, TRAILS AND TREES ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Established
3-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities
3-4-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created and established a Lehi City parks, trails and trees
advisory committee (PTTAC). The following provisions shall apply to the
committee:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor shall appoint and the city council approve a
parks, trails and trees advisory committee consisting of seven (7) voting
members, all of whom must be residents of the city. Other nonvoting members of
the committee may be appointed by the mayor as needed.
   B.   Term Of Office:
      1.   All members shall serve a term of three (3) years.
      2.   No member may serve more than three (3) consecutive terms.
      3.   In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, a successor shall be appointed for the remaining portion of the term.
   C.   Chairperson: At an annual organizational meeting, the members of the
committee shall elect one of their members as chair and one of their members as
vice chair. In the absence of the chair, the vice chair shall act as chair and
shall have all powers of the chair. The chair shall serve a term as per the
bylaws of the committee.
   D.   Receipt Of Gifts And Bequests: The PTTAC, on behalf of and with the
consent of the city council, shall have the authority to receive gifts or
bequests for the purchase and planting of trees and shrubs along any street,
avenue or public property and fund other special events sponsored by the
committee. Such gifts or bequests shall be received by the city treasurer and
conveyed into a special fund for the purposes set out in this chapter.
   E.   Compensation: Members of the PTTAC may be compensated on a per diem
basis, based upon meetings actually attended and reasonable and necessary
expenses, as determined by the city council. (2015 Code)
3-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The committee shall be an advisory body to the mayor, city council, planning
commission, department heads, and other city employees in making decisions
regarding the needs and management of the city parks, open space, trails and
trees. The committee shall report to, and is accountable to the mayor and city
council. The committee shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
   A.   To assist in the development and administration of a community tree
management program for Lehi City.
   B.   To adopt bylaws, policies, procedures and regulations for the conduct
of its duties and meetings, for consideration of items brought before the
committee, and for any other purposes deemed necessary for the functioning of
the committee; provided, that such bylaws, policies, procedures and regulations
shall be approved by the city council before taking effect.
   C.   To review development applications in an advisory capacity that include
elements pertaining to parks, trails, open space and/or community forestry, and
provide recommendations to the planning commission and city council regarding
the applications.
   D.   To develop and maintain a street tree and landscape tree selection
guide.
   E.   To assist the city's department heads in establishing educational and
information programs.
   F.   To assist the city's department heads in the establishment and
maintenance of a street tree inventory database and mapping.
   G.   In cooperation with the Lehi City historic preservation commission, to
identify and mark notable or historic trees for preservation.
   H.   To assist the city's department heads in scheduling and planning of an
annual Arbor Day observance. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 5
LIBRARY BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Board Of Directors
3-5-1: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   Appointment; Terms: The mayor, by and with the consent of the city
council, shall annually appoint two (2) suitable persons who are not members of
the city council for a term of three (3) years, which term commences on July 1,
to be members of the board of directors of the public library of the city;
provided, that all directors now appointed and serving shall fill out the
unexpired terms for which they were appointed. Such five (5) persons so
appointed, shall constitute the board of directors of the city public library.
Such directors shall be chosen from the citizens at large, with reference to
the fitness of such persons for the appointment. Directors shall serve without
compensation, but the actual and necessary expense incurred in the performance
of their duties may be paid from library funds. Directors shall serve not more
than two (2) full terms in succession. (1984 Code § 2.76.020; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Removal Of Directors: The mayor may, by and with the consent of the
city council, remove any director for misconduct or neglect of duty. (1984 Code
§ 2.76.030)
   C.   Vacancies: Vacancies in the board of directors caused by removals,
resignation or otherwise, shall, within thirty (30) days, be reported by the
secretary of the board to the city council and such vacancies shall be filled
for the unexpired term in the same manner as original appointments. (1984 Code
§ 2.76.040)
   D.   Election Of Officers; Financial Responsibilities:
      1.   The directors shall immediately, after their appointment, and
annually thereafter, meet and elect one of their number as president, and such
other officers as they may deem necessary. They may make and adopt such bylaws,
rules and regulations for their guidance, and for the government of the library
as may be expedient, not inconsistent with law. They shall have exclusive
control of the expenditure of all monies collected for the benefit of the
Frances Comer perpetual library fund. The board shall promote and care for the
library and shall recommend policies for its operation and in general, carry
out the spirit and intent of the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Provided, that all monies received for such library shall be
deposited in the city treasury to the credit of the Frances Comer perpetual
library fund, and shall be kept separate and apart from other monies of the
city, and drawn upon by the proper officers of the city upon the properly
authenticated vouchers of the library board. The board shall have power to
purchase or lease grounds, to lease or erect an appropriate building, or
buildings, for the use of the library, and, in general, to carry out the spirit
and intent of the provisions of this chapter. The librarian shall act as the
executive officer for the library board. (1984 Code § 2.76.050; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PARKS, ARTS, RECREATION, AND CULTURE (PARC) ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
3-6-1: Established
3-6-2: Duties And Responsibilities
3-6-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created and established a Lehi City Parks, Arts, Recreation,
and Culture Advisory Committee (PARC Advisory Committee). The following
provisions shall apply to the committee:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor shall review all applications and present the
name or names of potential committee members to the city council for its
approval. The mayor shall appoint and the city council approve a PARC Committee
consisting of seven (7) voting members. Other nonvoting members of the
committee may be appointed by the mayor and approved by the city council as
needed. The voting members of the committee shall consist of the following:
      1.   Two (2) city staff members;
      2.   Five (5) at-large positions made up of city residents
   B.   Term Of Office:
      1.   The at-large members shall serve a term of three (3) years. Two (2)
initial at-large committee members will be appointed for two (2)-year terms and
three (3) initial at-large committee members will be appointed for three (3)-
year terms. This will ensure staggered appointments to provide continuity to
the committee. All successive terms shall be for three (3) years.
      2.   No member may serve more than three (3) consecutive terms.
      3.   In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, a successor shall be appointed for the remaining portion of the term.
If appointed to fill a vacancy for a term lasting more than one (1) year, this
partial term shall count toward the limit of a committee member serving no more
than three (3) consecutive terms.
   C.   Chairperson: The mayor shall appoint and the city council approve the
initial chairperson and vice chairperson of the committee. Thereafter, the
chairperson and vice chairperson shall be elected by the members of the
committee at the first annual organizational meeting. The members of the
committee shall elect one of their members as chairperson and one of their
members as vice chairperson. In the absence of the chairperson, the vice
chairperson shall act as chairperson and shall have all powers of the
chairperson. The chairperson and vice chairperson shall serve a two (2)-year
term. No chairperson or vice chairperson shall serve more than two (2)
consecutive terms.
   D.   Compensation: Members of the PARC Committee may be compensated on a per
diem basis, based upon meetings actually attended and reasonable and necessary
expenses, as determined by the city council. (Ord. 12-2022, 2-22-2022)
3-6-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The PARC Advisory Committee shall review all grants and provide the
mayor and city council with recommendations on projects, needs, suggested
funding areas, recommended grants, needed facilities, etc. The city council
will consider the recommendations and make the final determination in
distributing the PARC funds.
   B.   The PARC Advisory Committee will evaluate all grant applications for
eligibility on a broad spectrum of cultural arts disciplines including visual
arts, performing arts, literary arts, historic preservation, arts education,
etc.
   C.   The PARC Advisory Committee may adopt bylaws, policies, procedures and
regulations for the conduct of its duties and meetings, for consideration of
items brought before the committee, and for any other purposes deemed necessary
for the functioning of the committee; provided, that such bylaws, policies,
procedures and regulations shall be approved by the city council before taking
effect. (Ord. 12-2022, 2-22-2022)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS GENERALLY
SECTION:
4-1-1: License Required
4-1-2: Application; Issuance; Recordkeeping; Deposit
4-1-3: Fee For License
4-1-4: Content Of License; Nontransferable
4-1-5: Term; Fee Due And Payable; Remedy
4-1-6: Suspension Or Revocation
4-1-7: Penalty
4-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a place of business within
the city without first obtaining the license required by this chapter. (1984
Code § 5.04.010; amd. 2015 Code)
4-1-2: APPLICATION; ISSUANCE; RECORDKEEPING; DEPOSIT:
All applications for licenses shall be made in writing to the city, and the
amount of the license fee shall be paid at the time of such application. All
licenses shall be issued by the city and signed by the mayor and city recorder,
and attested under the seal of the city. The city shall keep a record of the
licenses issued, stating the name of the person to whom the license is issued,
the kind of business licensed, together with the amount paid for such license.
All license fees shall be deposited with the city treasurer. (1984 Code §
5.04.020; amd. 2015 Code)
4-1-3: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Amount Fixed By City Council: The city council shall by resolution or
ordinance fix the amount of license fees and the terms and conditions thereof,
which shall be found in the consolidated fee schedule. (1984 Code § 5.04.040;
amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Evidence Of Liability: In any action brought under, or arising out of
the provisions of this title, the fact that a person represented himself as
engaged in any business for the transaction of which a license is by ordinance
required, or that such person exhibited a sign indicating such business, shall
be prima facie evidence of the liability of such person to pay for a license.
(1984 Code § 5.04.060; amd. 2015 Code)
4-1-4: CONTENT OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   Every such license shall specify by name the person, firm or
corporation to whom issued, and shall designate the particular place at which
the business shall be carried on.
   B.   No license granted or issued under the provisions of this title, or
otherwise, shall be in any manner assignable or transferable, or authorize any
person other than is mentioned therein, to do business, or authorize any other
business than is therein mentioned or named to be done or transacted; or the
business therein mentioned or named to be done or transacted at any other place
than therein mentioned or named. (1984 Code § 5.04.030; amd. 2015 Code)
4-1-5: TERM; FEE DUE AND PAYABLE; REMEDY:
   A.   Term; Fee Due And Payable: All licenses issued shall be for a twelve
(12) month period. All license fees that are imposed by this chapter, except
the initial license fee, shall be due and payable the last day of the month in
which the license expires. In the event the fee is not paid within forty five
(45) days of the expiration of the license, a penalty of twenty five percent
(25%) of the amount due shall be imposed and shall become a part of the license
fee levied by this chapter.
   B.   Final Notice; Remedy: Sixty (60) days after the business license
renewal fee is due, a final notice shall be sent to all licensees whose annual
license fee remains unpaid. This notice shall state that unless the fee and any
accrued penalties are paid within ninety (90) days of the license expiration
date, legal action will be initiated by the city attorney for engaging in
business without a valid business license.
   C.   Solicitor, Temporary, and Mobile Food Truck business licenses do not
receive a renewal notice and must re-apply each year for a business license.
(Ord. 43-2012, 12-11-2012; Ord. 13-2020, 3-31-2020)
4-1-6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Conditions: The city may suspend or revoke a license:
      1.   Because the license should not have been issued;
      2.   Because of licensee's failure or refusal to permit or cooperate with
an audit or inspection;
      3.   For failure to pay a required fee;
      4.   If continued operation of the licensed activity would constitute a
nuisance, or present a danger to the health, safety or general welfare of the
community; or
      5.   Because of a violation of this title or any other applicable
provision of law.
   B.   Procedure: The following procedures apply to the suspension or
revocation of any license issued under this title:
      1.   A license may be suspended or revoked for one or more violations of
this title, after a hearing before the city council. Written notice of such
hearing shall be served upon the licensee or licensee's agent at least ten (10)
calendar days prior to the date of the hearing. Notice may be served personally
or by certified mail. Such notice shall state the grounds for possible
suspension or revocation and the time and place where the hearing shall be
held. The licensee shall have the right to appear and respond to any
allegations made and to present reasons why the license should not be suspended
or revoked.
      2.   The hearing shall be conducted informally. Formal rules of evidence
and court procedure shall not apply. Hearsay evidence is admissible, but must
have some probative weight and reliability to be considered. The standard of
proof for suspension or revocation shall be a preponderance of the evidence.
      3.   A license may be suspended or revoked without a hearing for failure
to pay a required fee.
      4.   The city council shall make a ruling and decision based upon the
evidence presented at the hearing and shall enter a written order or decision,
and may impose such sanctions as it deems proper based upon the evidence
presented. In the event the city council institutes a sanction of suspension,
the city council may impose conditions that the licensee must meet before the
suspension is lifted. If a license is suspended or revoked, the sanction shall
apply to the licensee and to the business at the premises in question for the
full term of the imposed sanction. The order or decision entered by the city
council shall be final.
      5.   The licensee may appeal the decision or order of the city council to
a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   Reapplication Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person, firm,
partnership, company or corporation who has had a license suspended or revoked
to reapply for or obtain a license during the period of suspension or
revocation. (Ord. 12-2012, 5-8-2012)
4-1-7: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FRANCHISES AND SPECIAL PRIVILEGES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Application; Copies Required; Fee
4-2-2: Nonassignable; Exception
4-2-3: Manner Of Assignment
4-2-4: Forfeiture Upon Unauthorized Assignment
4-2-1: APPLICATION; COPIES REQUIRED; FEE:
Whenever application shall be made to the city council for a franchise or grant
of special privilege, or for an extension or renewal of any existing franchise
or grant of special privilege, the applicant shall furnish to the city recorder
for the use of the city council ten (10) copies of the proposed resolution or
ordinance, and pay into the city treasury a fee to be determined by the city
council. (1984 Code § 5.08.010)
4-2-2: NONASSIGNABLE; EXCEPTION:
All franchises and grants of special privilege shall be deemed to be
nonassignable, without express permission of the city council, whether such
limitation is set forth in the body of the franchise or grant or not. (1984
Code § 5.08.020)
4-2-3: MANNER OF ASSIGNMENT:
All assignments of franchises and special grants after being permitted by the
city council, must be in writing and a copy thereof filed in the office of the
city recorder before any such assignment or transfer will be recognized by the
city. (1984 Code § 5.08.030)
4-2-4: FORFEITURE UPON UNAUTHORIZED ASSIGNMENT:
Any attempted assignment or transfer of a franchise or a special privilege, not
made in accordance with the provisions of this title, shall operate as a
forfeiture of all rights of the grantee therein given. (1984 Code § 5.08.040)
ARTICLE A. CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM FRANCHISES
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Scope
4-2A-2: Required Information
4-2A-3: Review Of Application
4-2A-4: Public Hearing
4-2A-5: Action By City Council
4-2A-6: Bond Required
4-2A-1: SCOPE:
All applications for a new cable television franchise or for renewal of an
existing cable television franchise shall be filed in conformance with and
subject to the provisions of this article. This chapter shall not be as to
prescribe the detail in which an applicant shall make its presentation nor in
any way restrict the scope of its presentation. The matters required in this
article shall, however, be fully covered in such detail that the city council
can make fully informed judgment concerning the adequacy of the proposal and an
applicant's legal, character, financial, technical and other qualifications to
construct and operate a cable television system in the city. (1984 Code §
5.60.010)
4-2A-2: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
Each applicant under this article shall submit in reasonable detail as required
by the city council the following information:
   A.   The applicant shall submit sufficiently detailed information to allow
the city council to determine whether the size of the requested franchise is in
the public interest, considering the size of the area requested relative to the
technical, fiscal and legal qualifications of the applicant, the potential for
development in the near future for the area requested, and the extent to which
existing cable operators have installed facilities and equipment in the area
proposed to be included within the franchise.
   B.   All applications shall contain the name, address and telephone number
of the applicant and of the principal or representative of applicant to whom
inquires should be made. The application shall also identify all persons of
other entities having an ownership interest in the applicant, and for each such
entity shall provide information as to name, address, amount of interest, type
of interest, basis of acquiring ownership, existence of any buyout agreements,
and ownership interest in other media. Applicants shall likewise provide full
identification and ownership detail as required by the preceding sentence for
all affiliates, subsidiaries and parent companies of applicant.
   C.   Applicant shall supply all records relating to any past or present
involvement of the applicant or any of its principals or managers as a party in
any criminal or civil proceedings. The application shall also include detailed
information concerning whether the applicant or any principal, owner, director
or manager of the applicant, has ever been subject to a penalty for failure to
comply with any cable television franchise, has been involved in any legal
action involving any franchising authority, or has ever had any license of any
type revoked or suspended, or had renewal of any franchise denied. The
application shall also contain a complete list of all other cable television
systems owned by or affiliated with the applicant, or its principals or
managers, including location, miles of cable television line, percent
completed, density of area served, number of residences passed, number of
subscribers, channel capacity, services offered, rates charged and market
penetration for each such cable television system.
   D.   The application shall describe in detail the financing plan for the
construction and initial operation of the proposed cable television systems and
provide proof of financial capability. Proof of financial capability shall
include a showing of sources and amount of equity capital and amount and terms
of debt capital, both primary and secondary, accompanied by appropriate
documentation. If equity contribution is borrowed, the application shall also
describe the collateral and terms of the loan. All equity commitments shall be
evidenced by appropriate documentation. If funding is to be provided by a
parent or affiliated entity, the source of funding of that parent or affiliated
entity shall be similarly documented. The application shall also include pro
forma financial statements for a minimum of five (5) years beginning with the
date the franchise is accepted by an applicant. Such statements shall include
income statements, sources and uses of funds, loan amortization information,
anticipated capital expenditures, construction costs, depreciation schedules,
and operating expenses, along with detailed assumptions on which such
projections are based. Applicant shall submit an audited financial report for
the preceding two (2) years or, if the applicant has existed for less than two
(2) years, for such period of existence.
   E.   The application shall describe any qualifications and cable television
system experience of the applicant, including, but not limited to: 1) the
ownership, construction, management and operation of other cable television
systems and specifying the manner in which applicant participated therein; 2)
available personnel with technical qualifications and experience committed to
the proposed system design, construction and operations; 3) construction
contractors to be used, if any; and 4) technical consultants, if any. The
application shall detail the type of participation and the qualifications of
all such persons, consultants and contractors whose services will be utilized.
   F.   The applicant shall submit a detailed construction plan supported by
detailed maps indicating areas of construction and projected construction
schedules in six (6) month increments and showing the location of the
facilities of any existing cable television franchisee within or immediately
adjacent to such areas. The applicant shall demonstrate that sufficient pole
and conduit space exists for the placement of its facilities and shall provide
a copy of any agreement between the applicant and any other utility providing
for the use of any utility facilities.
   G.   The application shall include a comprehensive description of the system
configuration, manufacturer and model of each type of equipment used, a
spectrum utilization chart, and a complete list of all services which will be
offered by the applicant.
   H.   The application shall set forth detailed plans for system maintenance,
handling customer complaints, procedures for billing subscriber privacy, and
policies related to interruptions of service.
   I.   To assist the city council in making its evaluation of the impact of an
additional franchisee, an applicant shall, if appropriate, provide detailed
information relating to the extent of installation of facilities and equipment
of existing cable television operators, detailing the density of areas served,
unserved areas and the location of the facilities and equipment of existing
operators in the area for which the applicant is applying. (1984 Code §
5.60.020)
4-2A-3: REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
All applications made pursuant to this article shall be submitted to the city
recorder. Upon submission of an application, the city recorder shall review the
application to ensure that all required information is provided and that the
application is complete and correct. If necessary, the city recorder may
request the applicant to provide additional information. The city recorder
shall, within sixty (60) days after receipt of an application, accept the same,
reject it as incomplete or deficient, or accept the same with conditions. (1984
Code § 5.60.030)
4-2A-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Upon acceptance, or acceptance with conditions, of any application
under this article, the city recorder shall forward the application to the city
council and shall set a date for a public hearing before the city council at
which the city council will consider the application. If the application is
accepted with conditions, all conditions shall be met by the applicant at least
ten (10) days before the public hearing. Notice of the public hearing shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city once per
week for two (2) consecutive weeks with the first such publication being at
least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing. A notice of the public hearing,
together with a copy of the application, shall be given by the city recorder to
each existing cable television franchisee. Existing franchisees and all other
interested persons shall be given an opportunity to submit comments in writing
prior to the hearing. Existing franchisees and other interested persons may
appear and submit comments at the public hearing. Following the submission of
all comments, the city council shall review the application to ensure that all
information provided is complete and correct and the applicant has the
financial, technical, and other required background and resources to provide
the proposed services.
   B.   In evaluating an application submitted pursuant to this article, the
city council may consider all information set forth in the application and any
other information it deems appropriate in determining whether to award a
franchise to the applicant. In the event an application is filed proposing a
franchise area which overlaps, in whole or in part, the area covered by an
existing cable television franchise, the city council, in considering such
application shall take into account:
      1.   The availability of space on existing poles and conduits;
      2.   The likelihood that more than one franchisee can maintain
financially feasible operations over an extended period of time so as to
provide long term benefits to subscribers;
      3.   The impact on the financial and operating capability of an existing
franchisee;
      4.   The ability of the city to regulate multiple franchisees;
      5.   The disruption of public and private property by multiple
franchisees;
      6.   The loss of uniformity of service as may be provided by a single
franchisee;
      7.   The ability of multiple franchisees to ensure availability of high
quality cable television service at the lowest economically feasible price; and
      8.   Whether access to cable service might be denied to certain potential
subscribers based on the income of residents of a particular area. (1984 Code §
5.60.040)
4-2A-5: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
Upon consideration of all relevant information and completion of the public
hearing, the city council may reject the application or award a franchise with
or without conditions. (1984 Code § 5.60.050)
4-2A-6: BOND REQUIRED:
Upon granting a franchise for construction of a new cable television system,
the city council shall require as a condition of any such franchise that the
applicant post a surety bond with the city with sureties acceptable to the city
in such amount as established in the city consolidated fee schedule to secure
the faithful performance by the applicant of all obligations under the
franchise. If the new franchise overlaps the service area of an existing
franchise, the new franchise shall also be conditioned upon applicant's
agreement to indemnify all existing franchisees with respect to any damage to
physical facilities or disruption of service caused by the construction or
maintenance of applicant's facilities. (1984 Code § 5.60.060; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BEER HANDLER PERMIT
SECTION:
4-3-1: Class A Beer Handler Permit Required
4-3-2: Application Process
4-3-3: Qualifications
4-3-4: Penalties For Violations By Permit Holder
4-3-5: Licensee Penalties
4-3-6: Right To Hearing
4-3-1: CLASS A BEER HANDLER PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   A licensee involved in the transaction of retail beer sales for off
premises consumption (class A retail sales) shall require any and all employees
involved in the transaction of retail beer sales to obtain a beer handler
permit from the Utah County health department. All employees of a licensee
involved in the transaction of retail beer sales will be required to possess
and wear a beer handler permit while on duty. This permit shall be worn in a
conspicuous place such that the permit shall be clearly visible to any person.
   B.   New employees of licensee shall obtain a beer handler permit within
thirty (30) days of hire. During this thirty (30) day period, the employee may
sell alcoholic beverages in accordance with the state alcoholic beverage
control act, the regulations of the alcoholic beverage control commission, and
the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   The licensee is required to inform the Utah County health department of
any employee possessing a beer handler permit whose employment is terminated
for conduct that would be punishable under the statutes or ordinances
regulating alcoholic beverages. Licensees shall permit law enforcement officers
and Utah County health department employees to conduct random handler permit
compliance checks on licensee's premises. (1984 Code § 5.76.010)
4-3-2: APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   To obtain a beer handler permit, applicants must:
      1.   Fill out a beer handler permit application form available from the
Utah County health department.
      2.   Produce acceptable photo identification showing the identity of the
applicant.
      3.   Attend a beer handler permit training session administered by, or
approved by, the Utah County health department.
      4.   Pass the beer handler permit test given by the Utah County health
department.
   B.   If subsections A1 through A4 of this section are satisfied, the Utah
County health department shall issue the applicant a beer handler permit photo
identification card. This permit must be possessed and conspicuously worn by
the applicant while on duty such that the permit shall be clearly visible to
any person. (1984 Code § 5.76.020)
4-3-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The Utah County health department shall not grant a beer handler permit to any
individual who has had a felony conviction within three (3) years, or a
misdemeanor conviction involving alcohol or controlled substances within one
year. (1984 Code § 5.76.030)
4-3-4: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS BY PERMIT HOLDER:
   A.   A violation of this chapter or of any law involving the sale of an
alcoholic beverage is a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Additionally, an employee possessing a beer handler permit
who is convicted of any law involving the sale of an alcoholic beverage is not
only subject to criminal penalty, but shall incur a suspension of the
employee's beer handler permit as follows: (1984 Code § 5.76.040; amd. 2015
Code)
      1.   First violation: Automatic suspension of the employee's beer handler
permit for a period of one year.
      2.   Second violation: Automatic suspension of the employee's beer
handler permit for a period of one year.
      3.   Any subsequent violation: Automatic suspension of the employee's
beer handler permit for a period of three (3) years.
   B.   The licensee shall report any known violation involving the sale of an
alcoholic beverage to the Utah County health department within thirty (30)
days. (1984 Code § 5.76.040)
4-3-5: LICENSEE PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter by a licensee or any employee of the licensee
shall subject the licensee to the following penalties:
   A.   Upon a first violation of this chapter, the licensee shall be issued a
warning.
   B.   Upon any violation of this chapter which occurs within twenty four (24)
months of a prior violation, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00).
   C.   Upon any violation of this chapter which occurs within twenty four (24)
months of two (2) prior violations, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and the licensee shall have its license to sell beer
suspended for a period of three (3) consecutive days, on a Thursday through
Saturday.
   D.   Upon any violation of this chapter which occurs within twenty four (24)
months of three (3) prior violations, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) and the licensee shall have its license to sell
beer suspended for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days. Additionally, the
licensee shall be placed on probation for a period of one year. Any violation
of this chapter by the licensee or any employee of the licensee during the
period of probation shall result in the revocation of the licensee's license to
sell beer. The licensee shall not be eligible to reapply for a new license for
at least six (6) months from the date of revocation.
   E.   Failure to pay any fine imposed for a violation of any provision of
this chapter within thirty (30) days of the imposition of such fine, shall be
grounds for revocation of the licensee's license to sell beer.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the rights and powers of the city
council to grant, refuse to grant, or revoke a licensee's license to sell beer
under this chapter. (1984 Code § 5.76.050)
4-3-6: RIGHT TO HEARING:
   A.   The licensee shall have the right to request a hearing to contest the
existence of any violation of this chapter or the imposition of any penalty
under this chapter. A written request for a hearing must be filed by the
licensee with the city recorder and with the city attorney within fifteen (15)
days of the date of the mailing of the city notice of violation to the
licensee. The request for a hearing shall include the licensee's name, address,
telephone number, and a statement of the licensee's basis for disputing the
existence of a violation or the imposition of a penalty. A timely request for a
hearing shall stay the imposition of any penalty until the hearing is decided.
The city finding of a violation shall be considered final if the licensee fails
to request a hearing within the time period set forth above.
   B.   The city council shall notify the licensee in writing of the date and
time for the hearing. Hearings before the city council shall be conducted
informally. Formal rules of evidence and court procedure shall not apply. The
hearings are administrative in nature, and hearsay is admissible, but the
evidence must have some probative weight and reliability to be considered. The
licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard at the hearing, shall have
the right to be represented by counsel, and may call witnesses. The city
council shall consider all of the evidence and shall take any action they deem
appropriate as it relates to the licensee. The city council decision shall be
made orally at the end of the hearing or in writing within ten (10) business
days following the hearing. (1984 Code § 5.76.060)
CHAPTER 4
SOLICITOR'S LICENSE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: No Other City License Or Approval Required
4-4-3: Definitions
4-4-4: Exemptions
4-4-5: Solicitation Prohibited
4-4-6: Registration Of Solicitors
4-4-7: Application Form
4-4-8: Written Disclosures
4-4-9: When Registration Begins
4-4-10: Issuance Of Certificates
4-4-11: Form Of Certificate And Identification Badge
4-4-12: Maintenance Of Registry
4-4-13: Nontransferability Of Certificates
4-4-14: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of Certificate
4-4-15: Appeal
4-4-16: Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited
4-4-17: "No Solicitation" Notice
4-4-18: Duties Of Solicitors
4-4-19: Time Of Day Restrictions
4-4-20: Buyer's Right To Cancel
4-4-21: Penalty
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Residents of Lehi City have an inalienable interest in their personal
safety, well being and privacy in their residences, as well as their ability to
provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief, political
or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in commerce. The city
has a substantial interest in protecting the well being, tranquility, personal
safety and privacy of its citizens, which includes the ability to protect
citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property. The city also has
a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or otherwise unfair
consumer sales practices, as well as criminal activity.
   B.   There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the city
and its citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the
rights of those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of city
officials derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and
property from criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens
regarding door to door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement
officers and those affected by door to door solicitation and canvassing, as
well as judicial decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional
protections afforded and denied persons seeking to engage in door to door
solicitation, the city adopts this chapter to promote the city's substantial
interests in: respecting citizens' decisions regarding privacy in their
residences; protecting persons from criminal conduct; providing equal
opportunity to advocate for and against religious belief, political position or
charitable activities; and permitting truthful and nonmisleading door to door
solicitation regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate
commerce.
   C.   The city finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in
this chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the city interests
referred to herein while, at the same time, balancing the rights of those
regulated. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-2: NO OTHER CITY LICENSE OR APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not
apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit or registration from the city
to engage in door to door solicitation.
   B.   Any business licensed by the city under another city ordinance that
uses employees, independent contractors or agents for door to door solicitation
in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to the business,
shall be required to have such solicitors obtain a certificate, unless
otherwise exempt from registration.
   C.   Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered
solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit or
registration from the city, provided they do not establish a temporary or fixed
place of business in the city.
   D.   Nothing herein is intended to interfere with or supplant any other
requirement of federal, state or other local government laws regarding any
license, permit or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise
required to have or maintain. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   ADVOCATING: Speech or conduct intended to inform, promote or support
religious belief, political position or charitable activities.
   APPEALS OFFICER: The city council or designee of the city responsible for
receiving the information from the city and appellant regarding the denial or
suspension of a certificate and issuing a decision as required by this chapter.
   APPELLANT: The person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of a
certificate, either personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on
behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor.
   APPLICANT: An individual who is at least sixteen (16) years of age and not a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other lawful entity who
applies for a certificate permitting door to door solicitation.
   APPLICATION FORM: A standardized form provided by the city to an applicant
to be completed and submitted as part of registration.
   BCI: An original, dated no older than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to
the date of the application, of either: a) a Utah department of public safety,
bureau of criminal identification, verified criminal history report personal to
the applicant or equivalent report prepared by the corresponding public safety
agency of the applicant's home state if the applicant is not a Utah resident;
or b) verification by the Utah department of public safety, bureau of criminal
identification, that no criminal history rising to the level of a disqualifying
status exists for the applicant.
   BUSINESS: A commercial enterprise licensed by the city as a person or entity
under this title, having a fixed or temporary physical location within the
city.
   BUSINESS DAY: Every official working day on which the city administrative
offices are open.
   CERTIFICATE: An annual or renewal certificate permitting door to door
solicitation in the city, applied for or issued pursuant to the terms of this
chapter.
   CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES: Advocating by persons or entities that either are, or
support, a charitable organization.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: A. Includes any person, joint venture, partnership,
limited liability company, corporation, association, group, or other entity
that is:
      1.    a.    A benevolent, educational, voluntary, health, philanthropic,
humane, patriotic, religious or eleemosynary, social welfare or advocacy,
public health, environmental or conservation, or civic organization;
         b.    For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement or
firefighter fraternal association; or
         c.    Established for any charitable purpose; and
      2.    That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the internal
revenue code, as amended, and qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible
contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
   B.   Charitable organization includes a chapter, branch, area or office, or
similar affiliate, or any person soliciting contributions within the state for
a charitable organization that has its principal place of business outside the
city or state of Utah.
   COMPETENT INDIVIDUAL: A person claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage
in rational thought, conversation and conduct.
   COMPLETED APPLICATION: A fully completed application form, a BCI, two (2)
copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant to establish
proof of identity, and the tendering of fees.
   CRIMINALLY CONVICTED: The final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of
no contest, guilty, entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not
been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal
conviction is that offense of which the applicant or registered solicitor was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
   CURTILAGE: The space of ground and buildings immediately surrounding a
living unit which is typically, but not necessarily, enclosed within a fence
and within which a person has a reasonable expectation of privacy because the
intimate activities associated with the sanctity of a person's home and the
privacies of life occur.
   DISQUALIFYING STATUS: Anything specifically defined in this chapter as
requiring the denial or suspension of a certificate, and any of the following:
   A.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of:
1) felony homicide; 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing or exploiting a
minor; 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances; or 4) sexual
assault of any kind;
   B.   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or registered
solicitor for: 1) felony homicide; 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing or
exploiting a minor; 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances; or 4)
sexual assault of any kind;
   C.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a felony within the last ten (10) years;
   D.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
federal or state prison within the past five (5) years, regardless of the
duration of incarceration;
   E.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a misdemeanor within the past five (5) years involving a crime of: 1) moral
turpitude; or 2) violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
   F.   A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant or
registered solicitor within the last five (5) years indicating that: 1) the
applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in fraud or intentional
misrepresentation; or 2) that a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor
was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)(2), (a)
(4), (a)(6) or (a)(19), as amended;
   G.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution or governmental entity, including
being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device, for engaging in any
activity constituting a disqualifying status;
   H.   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest warrant
from any jurisdiction; or
   I.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse, issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION: The practice of engaging in or attempting to
engage in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that
person is a competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate
a home solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or
services.
   ENTITY: Includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or
other lawfully registered and recognized entity, organization, society or
association.
   FEES: The cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the
issuance of a certificate and/or identification badge, which shall not exceed
the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the certificate
and/or identification badge.
   FINAL CIVIL JUDGMENT: A civil judgment from any court that would be
recognized under state law as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would
apply.
   GOODS: One or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise,
perishables of any kind, subscriptions or manufactured products offered,
provided or sold.
   HOME SOLICITATION SALE: To make or attempt to make a sale of goods or
services by a solicitor at a residence by means of door to door solicitation,
regardless of: the means of payment or consideration used for the purchase; the
time of delivery of the goods or services; or the previous or present
classification of the solicitor as a solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant
merchant, or similar designation.
   LICENSING OFFICER: The city employee or agent responsible for receiving from
an applicant or registered solicitor the completed application and either
granting, suspending, or denying the applicant's certificate.
   NO SOLICITATION SIGN: A reasonably visible and legible sign that states "No
Soliciting", "No Solicitors Or Salespersons", "No Trespassing" or words of
similar import.
   POLITICAL POSITION: Any actually held belief, or information for, against or
in conjunction with any political, social, environmental or humanitarian belief
or practice.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has been issued a current certificate
by the city.
   REGISTRATION: The process used by the city licensing officer to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a certificate will be
denied, granted or suspended.
   RELIGIOUS BELIEF: Any sincerely held belief, or information for, against or
in conjunction with, any theistic, agnostic or atheistic assumption,
presumption or position, or religious doctrine, dogma or practice, regardless
of whether or not the belief or information is endorsed by any other person or
public or private entity.
   RESIDENCE: Any living unit contained within any building or structure that
is occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the
city, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. This does not include the public sidewalk, public street or public
rights of way.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON OR ENTITY: That person or entity responsible for the
following with respect to an applicant, registered solicitor and the competent
individual in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or
attempted to be made by means of a home solicitation sale:
   A.   Maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax
number, computing the sales taxes owing from any sale of goods or services,
paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
   B.   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to
cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
   C.   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
   SALE OF GOODS OR SERVICES: The conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the
competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good or service that
entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three (3) days under any
applicable federal, state or local law.
   SERVICES: Those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided or
sold to a competent individual of a residence.
   SOLICITING, SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Any of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought.
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
insurance, subscriptions to publications or publications.
   C.   Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value
for the benefit of any person or entity.
   D.   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services.
   E.   Seeking to engage an individual in conversation at a residence for the
purpose of promoting or facilitating the receipt of information regarding
religious belief, political position, charitable conduct or a home solicitation
sale.
   F.   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
soliciting, such as hawking or peddling.
   SOLICITOR OR SOLICITORS: A person engaged in door to door solicitation.
   SUBMITTED IN WRITING: The information for an appeal of a denial or
suspension of a certificate, submitted in any type of written statement to the
city offices by certified, registered, priority, overnight or delivery
confirmation mail, facsimile or hand delivery.
   SUBSTANTIATED REPORT: An oral, written or electronic report:
   A.   That is submitted to and documented by the city by any of the
following: competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or
other city employees with publicly available identification of the individual's
name, address and any other reliable means of contact; city law enforcement or
licensing officer; or any other regularly established law enforcement agency at
any level of government;
   B.   That provides any of the following information regarding a registered
solicitor:
      1.    Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying
status of a registered solicitor;
      2.    Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed an act
constituting a disqualifying status which has not yet been determined to be a
disqualifying status;
      3.    Documented, eyewitness accounts that the registered solicitor has
engaged in repeated behavior that demonstrates failure by the registered
solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
      4.    Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor
creates a circumstance that threatens the health, safety or welfare of any
individuals or entities within the City.
   WAIVER: The written form provided to applicant by the City wherein applicant
agrees that the City may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on
the applicant for licensing purposes under this chapter, and which contains
applicant's notarized signature. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following are exempt from registration under this chapter:
      1.   Persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent
individual prior to the time of the person's arrival at the residence;
      2.   Persons whose license, permit, certificate or registration with the
State of Utah permits them to engage in door to door solicitation to offer
goods or services to an occupant of the residence;
      3.   Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously
made order, or persons providing services at a residence pursuant to a
previously made request by a competent individual;
      4.   Persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any religious belief or political position, regardless of
whether goods, services or any other consideration is offered or given, with or
without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge or purchase; and
      5.   Persons representing a charitable organization. The charitable
exemption shall apply to students soliciting contributions to finance
extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs;
provided, that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school
administration, and that such student solicitors carry current picture student
identification from the educational institution for which they are soliciting.
   B.   Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties
and prohibitions outlined in sections
4-4-16,
4-4-17,
4-4-18 and
4-4-19 of this chapter while advocating or soliciting. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-
2013)
4-4-5: SOLICITATION PROHIBITED:
Unless otherwise authorized, permitted or exempted pursuant to the terms and
provisions of this chapter, the practice of being in and upon a private
residence within the City by solicitors, for the purpose of home solicitation
sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is punishable as set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-6: REGISTRATION OF SOLICITORS:
Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, all persons desiring to engage in
door to door solicitation within the City, prior to doing so, shall submit a
completed application to the Licensing Officer and obtain a certificate. (Ord.
18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-7: APPLICATION FORM:
   A.   Standard Form: The Licensing Officer shall provide a standard
application form for use for the registration of solicitors. Upon request to
the Licensing Officer, or as otherwise provided, any person or entity may
obtain in person, by mail, e-mail, or facsimile a copy of the application form.
   B.   Required Information: Each application form shall require disclosure
and reporting by the applicant of the following information:
      1.   An affirmation that the applicant has received and reviewed the
disclosure information required by this chapter;
      2.   Contact information including:
         a.   Applicant's true, correct and legal name, including any former
names or aliases used during the last ten (10) years;
         b.   Applicant's telephone number, home address and mailing address,
if different;
         c.   If different from the applicant, the name, address and telephone
number of the responsible person or entity;
         d.   The address by which all notices to the applicant required under
this chapter are to be sent, which must be a physical street address; and
         e.   A valid e-mail address.
      3.   An in person verification by the Licensing Officer of the
applicant's true identity by use of any of the following which bears a
photograph of the applicant:
         a.   A valid driver license;
         b.   A valid passport;
         c.   A valid identification card issued by any state; or
         d.   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
      4.   Proof that either the applicant, or the responsible person or
entity, is properly registered with the State Department of Commerce.
      5.   If applicable, a special events sales tax number for either the
applicant or for the responsible person or entity for which the applicant will
be soliciting.
      6.   Marketing information including:
         a.   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered or trademarked names; and
         b.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations or other qualifications required by Federal or State law to
promote, provide or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
      7.   An original BCI background check, as defined in section
4-4-3 of this chapter, and a signed copy of a waiver whereby applicant agrees
to allow the City to obtain a name and date of birth BCI background check on
applicant for purposes of enforcement of this chapter.
      8.   Answers to each of the following questions on the application form:
         a.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of: 1) felony
homicide; 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing or exploiting a minor; 3) the
sale or distribution of controlled substances; or 4) sexual assault of any
kind?
         b.   Are any criminal charges currently pending against the applicant
for: 1) felony homicide; 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing or exploiting
a minor; 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances; or 4) sexual
assault of any kind?
         c.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a felony within
the last ten (10) years?
         d.   Has the applicant been incarcerated in a Federal or State prison
within the past five (5) years, regardless of the duration of incarceration?
         e.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor
within the past five (5) years involving a crime of: 1) moral turpitude; or 2)
violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property?
         f.   Has a final civil judgment been entered against the applicant
within the last five (5) years indicating that: 1) the applicant had either
engaged in fraud or intentional misrepresentation; or 2) a debt of the
applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)
(2), (a)(4), (a)(6) or (a)(19), as amended?
         g.   Is the applicant currently on parole or probation to any court,
penal institution or governmental entity, including being under house arrest or
subject to a tracking device, for engaging in any activity constituting a
disqualifying status?
         h.   Does the applicant have an outstanding arrest warrant from any
jurisdiction?
         i.   Is the applicant currently subject to a protective order based on
physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction?
   C.   Execution Of Application: The applicant shall execute the application
form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on
the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the information provided is
complete, truthful and accurate.
   D.   Fee: The applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the
City, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of reviewing and processing
the application and issuing the certificate and identification badge. (Ord. 36-
2017, 9-12-2017)
4-4-8: WRITTEN DISCLOSURES:
The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying the
applicant of the following:
   A.   The applicant's submission of the application authorizes the City to
verify information submitted with the completed application, including:
      1.   The applicant's address;
      2.   The applicant's and/or responsible person's or entity's State tax
identification and special use tax numbers, if any;
      3.   The validity of the applicant's proof of identity;
      4.   Any other representation made by the applicant in submitting an
application.
   B.   The City may consult any available sources for information on the
applicant, including, but not limited to, databases for any outstanding
warrants, protective orders or civil judgments.
   C.   Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is
allowed.
   D.   Identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by applicant
with a completed application.
   E.   The applicant must submit a BCI background check (or equivalent
background check from the applicant's home state if the applicant is not a Utah
resident), as set forth in this chapter, with a completed application.
   F.   To the extent permitted by State and/or Federal law, the applicant's
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection.
   G.   The City will maintain copies of the applicant's application form,
proof of identity, and identification badge for a time period required by
applicable law. If no such time period is specified by applicable law, the City
will maintain such documentation for a reasonable and customary period of time.
These copies will become public records available for inspection on demand at
the City offices whether or not a certificate is denied, granted or renewed.
   H.   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial or suspension of a
certificate under the provisions of this chapter.
   I.   That a request for a certificate will be granted or denied within one
business day after a completed application is submitted. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-
2013)
4-4-9: WHEN REGISTRATION BEGINS:
The Licensing Officer shall not begin the registration process unless the
applicant has submitted a completed application. The original identification
submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned after the Licensing
Officer verifies the applicant's identity. A copy of the identification may be
retained by the Licensing Officer. The Licensing Officer shall make and retain
a copy of the original BCI background check submitted by the applicant, and
return the original to the applicant. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-10: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES:
The Licensing Officer shall review the completed application submitted by the
applicant and issue a certificate in accordance with the following:
   A.   Annual Certificate: Within one business day of the submission of a
completed application, the City shall:
      1.   Take any and all actions it deems appropriate to verify the
truthfulness and completeness of the information submitted by the applicant,
including, but not limited to, those disclosed with the application form.
      2.   Issue written notice to the applicant or entity, if any, that the
applicant either:
         a.   Will be issued an annual certificate, eligible for renewal one
year from the date of issuance; or
         b.   Will not be issued an annual certificate for reasons cited in
section
4-4-14 of this chapter.
   If the applicant lists a responsible person or entity on the submitted
application, the applicant must also sign a release at the time he or she
submits the application to the city, allowing the city to disclose the
foregoing information to the responsible person or entity.
   B.   Renewal Certificate: An annual certificate shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance, and shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
on the anniversary date of issuance as indicated on the applicable certificate.
Any annual certificate that is not suspended, revoked or expired may be renewed
upon the request of the registered solicitor and the submission of a new
completed application and payment of the fee, unless a disqualifying status, or
any of the conditions for the denial, suspension or revocation of a certificate
are then applicable as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-11: FORM OF CERTIFICATE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE:
   A.   Certificate Form: Should the licensing officer determine that the
applicant is entitled to a certificate, the licensing officer shall issue a
certificate to the applicant. The certificate shall list the name of the
registered solicitor and the responsible person or entity, if any, and the date
on which the certificate expires. The certificate shall be dated and signed by
the licensing officer. The certificate shall be carried by the registered
solicitor at all times while soliciting in the city.
   B.   Identification Badge: With both the annual and renewal certificates,
the city shall issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that
shall be worn prominently on his or her person while soliciting in the city.
The identification badge shall bear the name of the city and shall contain: 1)
the name of the registered solicitor; 2) address and phone number of the
registered solicitor, or the name, address and phone number of the responsible
person or entity; 3) a recent photograph of the registered solicitor; and 4)
the date on which the certificate expires. The city may also include any other
information it deems necessary on the identification badge, including a
statement notifying potential consumers that the city does not expressly or
impliedly endorse the registered solicitor, nor the goods or services offered
by the solicitor. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-12: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The licensing officer shall maintain and make available for public inspection a
copy or record of every completed application received and the certificate or
written denial issued by the city. The applicant's BCI background check shall
remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public
inspection unless otherwise required by applicable federal, state or local law.
The licensing officer may furnish to the head of the city law enforcement
agency a listing of all applicants, those denied and those issued a
certificate. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-13: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF CERTIFICATES:
Certificates shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and shall list
the responsible party or entity, if any. The certificate shall be
nontransferable. Prior to a registered solicitor facilitating or attempting to
facilitate home solicitation sales with different or additional goods or
services, or with a responsible person or entity from those designated in the
originally submitted completed application, such registered solicitor shall
submit a written change request to the licensing officer and obtain a new
certificate reflecting the amended information.
   A.   A new certificate based on the amended information shall issue for the
balance of time remaining on the solicitor's previous certificate before the
amendment was filed.
   B.   Before the new certificate is given to the registered solicitor, the
registered solicitor shall obtain a revised identification badge from the city,
after payment of the fee for the identification badge and applicable
processing. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-14: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Denial: Upon review, the licensing officer shall refuse to issue a
certificate to an applicant for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Denial of annual certificate:
         a.   The application form is not complete, or is incorrect;
         b.   The applicant fails to: 1) establish proof of identity; 2)
provide a BCI; or 3) pay the fees;
         c.   The completed application or BCI indicates that the applicant has
a disqualifying status;
         d.   The applicant has previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or has had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter;
         e.   Since the submission of the completed application, the applicant
is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         f.   The city has received a substantiated report regarding the past
or present conduct of the applicant;
         g.   Since the submission of the application, the city or other
governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil
injunction against the applicant for violating this chapter or similar federal,
state or municipal laws in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying
status; or
         h.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud or intentional misrepresentation; or 2) that a debt of
the applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523
(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6) or (a)(19), as amended.
      2.   Denial of annual renewal certificate:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant when seeking renewal
of a certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the renewal application, the applicant is
subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application or granting of a
certificate, the city has received a substantiated report regarding the past or
present conduct of the solicitor;
         e.   The city or other governmental entity has either criminally
convicted or obtained a civil injunction against the applicant for violating
this chapter or similar federal, state or municipal laws in a manner rising to
the level of a disqualifying status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud or intentional misrepresentation; or 2) that a debt of
the applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523
(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6) or (a)(19), as amended.
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation: The city shall either suspend or revoke a
certificate when any of the reasons warranting the denial of a certificate
occurs.
   C.   Notice Of Denial Or Suspension: Upon determination of the licensing
officer to deny an applicant's completed application or to suspend a registered
solicitor's certificate, the city shall cause written notice to be sent to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the method indicated in the completed
application. The notice shall specify the grounds for the denial or suspension,
the documentation or information the city relied on to make the decision, the
availability of the documentation for review by applicant upon one business
day's notice to the city, and the date upon which the denial or suspension of
the certificate shall take effect. It shall further state that the applicant or
registered solicitor shall have ten (10) business days from the receipt of the
notice of denial or suspension to appeal the same. The denial or suspension of
the certificate shall be effective no sooner than two (2) calendar days from
the date the notice is sent, unless that suspension is because of circumstances
outlined in subsection B4 of the definition of "substantiated report" in
section
4-4-3 of this chapter, in which case, the suspension is effective immediately.
The denial or suspension shall remain effective unless and until the order is
rescinded, overturned on appeal, or determined by a court to be contrary to
equity or law. Failure to appeal the suspension of a certificate automatically
results in its revocation.
   D.   Return Of Items To City: If an applicant's completed application is
denied or suspended, the applicant must immediately return any previously
issued annual certificate, renewal certificate and city issued identification
badge to the city. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-15: APPEAL:
An applicant or registered solicitor whose certificate has been denied or
suspended shall have the right to appeal to the city council or its designee.
Any appeal must be submitted by either the applicant, the responsible person or
entity, or legal counsel for either who: a) documents the relationship with the
applicant or responsible person or entity; or b) is licensed or authorized by
the state to do so, and makes the assertion of an agency relationship. The
following procedures and requirements shall apply:
   A.   Filing; Time Limit: Any appeal must be submitted in writing to the city
recorder with a copy to the license officer within ten (10) business days of
the decision from which the appeal is taken. Such appeal shall describe in
detail the nature of the appeal, the action complained of and the grounds for
appeal.
   B.   Availability Of Information: Upon request of the applicant or
registered solicitor, within one business day, the city will make available any
information upon which it relied in making the determination to either deny or
suspend the certificate.
   C.   Review: The appeals officer shall review, de novo, all written
information submitted by the applicant or registered solicitor to the licensing
officer, any additional information relied upon by the licensing officer as the
basis for denial, suspension or revocation, and any additional information
supplied by the city, applicant or registered solicitor. Any additional
information submitted by any party to the appeal to the appeals officer shall
be simultaneously submitted to the opposing party. If desired, any party shall
have three (3) business days to submit rebuttal documentation to the appeals
officer regarding the additional information submitted by the opposing party.
   D.   Decision: The appeals officer will render a decision no later than
fifteen (15) calendar days from the date the appeal was taken, unless an
extension of time is agreed upon by the parties. In the event that any party to
the appeal submits rebuttal information as allowed in subsection C of this
section, the fifteen (15) calendar days shall be extended to include the
additional three (3) days for rebuttal.
      1.   The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be reversed by the
appeals officer if, upon review of the written appeal and information
submitted, the appeals officer finds that the licensing officer made a material
mistake of law or fact in denying or suspending the applicant or registered
solicitor's certificate.
      2.   If the written appeal and information submitted indicates that the
licensing officer properly denied or suspended the certificate of the applicant
or registered solicitor, the denial or suspension of the certificate shall be
affirmed and constitute a determination that the suspended certificate is
revoked.
      3.   The decision of the appeals officer shall be delivered to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the means designated in the completed
application, or as otherwise agreed upon when the appeal was filed.
   E.   Exhaust Of Administrative Remedies: After the ruling of the appeals
officer, the applicant or solicitor is deemed to have exhausted all
administrative remedies with the city.
   F.   Further Relief: Nothing herein shall impede or interfere with the
applicant's, solicitor's or city's right to seek relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction. However, an applicant or solicitor must first exhaust its
administrative remedies before seeking relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-16: DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   False Statements: No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially
false or fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   B.   Disclosure To Consumer: A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the
consumer during face to face solicitation: 1) the name of the solicitor; 2) the
name and address of the entity with whom the solicitor is associated; and 3)
the purpose of the solicitor's contact with the person and/or competent
individual. This requirement may be satisfied through the use of the badge and
an informational flier containing the information above, as well as a notice
that the city does not expressly or impliedly endorse the registered solicitor,
nor the goods or services offered by the solicitor.
   C.   Fictitious Name: No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias or
any name other than his or her true and correct name.
   D.   Implication Of City Endorsement: No solicitor shall represent directly
or by implication that the granting of a certificate of registration implies
any endorsement by the city of the solicitor's goods or services or of the
individual solicitor. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-17: "NO SOLICITATION" NOTICE:
   A.   Permitted: Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to
refuse solicitors by displaying a "No Solicitation" sign, which shall be posted
on or near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to
the sidewalk leading to the residence.
   B.   Notice To Solicitor: The display of such sign or placard shall be
deemed to constitute notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the
residence does not desire to receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   C.   Responsibility Of Solicitor: It shall be the responsibility of the
solicitor to check each residence for the presence of any such notice prior to
engaging in any type of solicitation.
   D.   Applicability To Exempt Solicitors: The provisions of this section
shall apply also to solicitors who are exempt from registration pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-18: DUTIES OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   Every person soliciting or advocating shall check each residence for
any "No Soliciting" sign or placard or any other notice or sign notifying a
solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as, but not limited to, "No
Solicitation" signs. If such sign or placard is posted, the solicitor shall
desist from any efforts to solicit at the residence or dwelling and shall
immediately depart from such property. Possession of a certificate of
registration does not in any way relieve any solicitor of this duty.
   B.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person soliciting or
advocating to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any other manner
attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears a "No
Solicitation" sign or similar sign or placard for the purpose of engaging in or
attempting to engage in advocating a home solicitation sale, door to door
soliciting or other soliciting.
   C.   It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor, through ruse,
deception or fraudulent concealment of a purpose, to solicit, or to take action
calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.
   D.   Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an occupant of a residence or
dwelling to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart.
   E.   The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly make any physical
contact with or touch another person without the person's consent.
   F.   The solicitor shall not follow a person into a residence without their
explicit consent.
   G.   The solicitor shall not continue or repeat soliciting after a person
and/or competent individual has communicated clearly and unequivocally their
lack of interest in the subject, goods or services of the solicitor.
   H.   The solicitor shall not use obscene language or gestures.
   I.   Unless an occupant of the residence gives consent to the solicitor to
enter the curtilage, the solicitor shall walk from a public area to the main
entrance to the home using the most obvious path in order to make contact with
occupants of the residence. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-19: TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at a
residence before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
Mountain time, unless the solicitor has express prior permission from the
resident to do so. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-20: BUYER'S RIGHT TO CANCEL:
In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain buyer's signature to a written
statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the third
business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "buyer's
right to cancel" shall be in the form required by Utah Code Annotated section
70C-5-103, as amended, or any state or federal law modifying or amending such
provision. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
4-4-21: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or a jail sentence not to exceed six (6)
months. (Ord. 18-2013, 3-26-2013)
CHAPTER 5
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Title
4-5-2: Purpose Of Provisions
4-5-3: Application Of Provisions
4-5-4: Definitions
4-5-5: Obscenity And Lewdness; Statutory Provisions
4-5-6: Location And Zoning Restrictions
4-5-7: Business License Required
4-5-8: Exemptions From License Requirements
4-5-9: Legitimate Artistic Modeling
4-5-10: Business Categories; Number Of Licenses
4-5-11: Employee Licenses
4-5-12: License Application Disclosures Required
4-5-13: Fees For License
4-5-14: Bond Required
4-5-15: Premises, Location And Name
4-5-16: License Issuance Conditions
4-5-17: Term Of License
4-5-18: Notice Of Change Of Information
4-5-19: Transfer Limitations
4-5-20: Display Of License
4-5-21: Statement In Advertisements
4-5-22: Regulations And Unlawful Activities
4-5-23: Outcall Services; Operation Requirements
4-5-24: Adult Business; Design Of Premises
4-5-25: Seminude Entertainment Business; Design Of Premises
4-5-26: Seminude Entertainment Business; Location Restriction
4-5-27: Alcohol Prohibited
4-5-28: Seminude Dancing Agencies
4-5-29: Performers; Prohibited Activities
4-5-30: Patrons; Prohibited Activities
4-5-31: Nudity; Defenses To Prosecution
4-5-32: Existing Businesses; Compliance Time Limits
4-5-33: Violation; Injunction
4-5-34: Violation; License Suspension Or Revocation
4-5-35: Effect Of License Revocation
4-5-36: Appeal Procedures
4-5-37: Violation; Penalty; Responsibility
4-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING ORDINANCE. (1984 Code § 5.72.010)
4-5-2: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
It is the purpose and object of this chapter that the city establish reasonable
and uniform regulations governing the time, place and manner of operation of
sexually oriented businesses and their employees in the city. This chapter
shall be construed to protect the governmental interests recognized by this
chapter in a manner consistent with constitutional protections provided by the
United States and Utah constitutions. (1984 Code § 5.72.020)
4-5-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on certain
business activities which are characterized as sexually oriented businesses,
and certain employees of those businesses characterized as sexually oriented
business employees. (1984 Code § 5.72.030)
4-5-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial
establishment:
   A. Which excludes minors from more than fifteen percent (15%) of the retail
floor or shelf space of the premises; or
   B. Which, as one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rental, for
any form of consideration, any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter; or photographs, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes or video reproductions, slides or other visual representations,
the central theme of which depicts or describes "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas"; or instruments, devices or paraphernalia which
are designated for use in connection with "specified sexual activities", except
for legitimate medically recognized contraceptives.
   ADULT BUSINESS: An adult motion picture theater, adult theater, adult
bookstore, novelty store or adult video store.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment which:
   A. Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions
(repeated showings of any single presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
   B. As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration, films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions
which are primarily characterized by the depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which:
   A. Holds itself out as such a business; or
   B. Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions
(repeated performance of the same presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
   C. As its principal business, features persons who appear in live
performances in a state of seminudity or which are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   EMPLOY: Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary or any other form of
compensation, whether such person is hired on the payroll of the employer, as
an independent contractor, as an agent, or in any other form of employment
relationship.
   ESCORT: Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes,
visits, consorts with, or accompanies or offers to date, consort, socialize,
visit, or accompany another or others to or about social affairs,
entertainment, or places of amusement, or within any place of public or private
resort or any business or commercial establishment or any private quarters.
"Escort" shall not be construed to include persons who provide business or
personal services, such as licensed private nurses, aides for the elderly or
handicapped, social secretaries or similar service personnel whose relationship
with their patron is characterized by a bona fide contractual relationship
having a duration of more than twelve (12) hours and who provide a service not
principally characterized as dating or socializing. "Escort" shall also not be
construed to include persons providing services such as singing telegrams,
birthday greetings or similar activities characterized by appearances in a
public place, contracted for by a party other than the person for whom the
service is being performed and of a duration not longer than one hour.
   ESCORT SERVICE: An individual or entity who, for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes or offers to furnish escorts, or provides or offers to introduce
patrons to escorts.
   ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER: Any third person, not an escort, who, for pecuniary
compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service,
escort or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services, escorts or
patrons at any location within the city, whether or not such third person is
employed by such escort service, escort, patron or by another business, or is
an independent contractor or self-employed.
   OPERATOR: The manager or other natural person principally in charge of a
sexually oriented business.
   OUTCALL SERVICES: Services of a type performed by a sexually oriented
business employee outside of the premises of the licensed sexually oriented
business, including, but not limited to, escorts, models, dancers and other
similar employees.
   PATRONS: Any person who contracts with or employs any escort services or
escort or the customer of any business licensed pursuant to this chapter.
   PECUNIARY COMPENSATION: Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward, or any other form of consideration.
   PERSON: Any person, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership, or
other legal entity.
   SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which:
   A. Fully opaque clothing completely covers the human female breast below a
point immediately above the top of the areola, and in the case of a female
performer, covers the areola and nipple of such performer in a shape and color
other than the natural shape and color of the nipple and areola; and
   B. The male or female genitals, pubic region, buttocks and anus, are covered
by fully opaque clothing no narrower than four inches (4") wide in front and
five inches (5") wide in the back, which shall not taper to less than one inch
(1") wide at the narrowest point.
   SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY: Any person, agency, firm, corporation, partnership,
or any other entity or individual which furnishes, books or otherwise engages
or offers to furnish, book or otherwise engage the service of a professional
dancer licensed pursuant to this chapter for performance or appearance at a
business licensed for adult theaters.
   SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: A business, including an adult theater,
where employees perform or appear in the presence of patrons of the business in
a state of seminudity. A business shall also be presumed to be a seminude
entertainment business if the business holds itself out as such a business.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Seminude entertainment businesses, sexually
oriented "outcall services", "adult businesses" and "seminude dancing
agencies", as defined by this chapter.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES: Those employees who work on the
premises of a sexually oriented business in activities related to the sexually
oriented portion of the business. This includes all managing employees,
dancers, escorts, models and other similar employees, whether or not hired as
employees, agents or as independent contractors. Employees shall not include
individuals whose work is unrelated to the sexually oriented portion of the
business, such as janitors, bookkeepers and similar employees. Sexually
oriented business employees shall not include cooks, serving persons and
similar employees, except where they may be managers or supervisors of the
business. All persons making outcall meetings under this chapter, including
escorts, models, guards, escort runners, drivers, chauffeurs and other similar
employees shall be considered sexually oriented business employees.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: The human male or female pubic area, genitalia,
buttocks or anus; or the human female breast below a point immediately above
the top of the areola.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Acts, whether real or simulated, of:
      1.    Masturbation;
      2.    Human sexual intercourse;
      3.    Sodomy;
      4.    Fellatio;
      5.    Cunnilingus; or
      6.    Bestiality.
   B.    Manipulating, caressing or fondling, or simulating the manipulation,
caressing or fondling by any person of: 1) the genitals of a human; 2) the
pubic area of a human; 3) any part of the breast or breasts of a human female;
or 4) any part of the human buttocks or anus.
   C.    Actual or simulated sadomasochistic acts, flagellation or torture by
or upon a person clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the
part of the one so clothed.
   D. The actual or simulated display of human male genitalia in a discernibly
turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered. (1984 Code § 5.72.040)
4-5-5: OBSCENITY AND LEWDNESS; STATUTORY PROVISIONS:
Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or display of any matter which
is contrary to the provisions of the development code, this code or other
applicable federal or state statute prohibiting obscenity, nudity, lewdness,
profanity or pornography. (1984 Code § 5.72.050)
4-5-6: LOCATION AND ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business at any
location within the city not zoned for such business. Sexually oriented
businesses, including businesses licensed as adult businesses, outcall service
businesses or seminude entertainment businesses, pursuant to this chapter,
shall only be allowed in areas zoned for their use as set forth in section
12.190 of the city development code. (1984 Code § 5.72.060)
4-5-7: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business as
specified herein, without first obtaining a general business license and a
sexually oriented business license. The sexually oriented business license
shall specify the type of business for which it is obtained. (1984 Code §
5.72.070)
4-5-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sex therapist or similar
individual licensed by the state to provide bona fide sexual therapy or
counseling, licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse, psychiatrist or
psychologist, nor shall it apply to any educator licensed by the state for
activities in the classroom. (1984 Code § 5.72.080)
4-5-9: LEGITIMATE ARTISTIC MODELING:
   A.   The city does not intend to unreasonably or improperly prohibit
legitimate modeling which may occur in a state of nudity for purposes protected
by the first amendment or similar state protections. The city does intend to
prohibit prostitution and related offenses occurring under the guise of nude
modeling. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 4-5-22K of this chapter,
a licensed outcall employee may appear in a state of nudity before a customer
or patron; providing, that a written contract for such appearance was entered
into between the customer or patron and the employee and signed at least twenty
four (24) hours before the nude appearance. All of the other applicable
provisions of this chapter shall still apply to such nude appearance.
   B.   In the event of a contract for nude modeling or appearance signed more
than forty eight (48) hours in advance of the modeling or appearance, the
individual to appear nude shall not be required to obtain a license pursuant to
this chapter. During such unlicensed nude appearance, it is unlawful to:
      1.   Appear nude or seminude in the presence of persons under the age of
eighteen (18).
      2.   Allow, offer, or agree to any touching of the contracting party or
other person by the individual appearing nude.
      3.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor, or committing activities harmful to a
minor.
      4.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any sex act as validly defined by
city ordinances or state statutes.
      5.   Allow, offer, agree or permit the contracting party or other person
to masturbate in the presence of the individual contracted to appear nude.
      6.   Allow, offer or agree for the individual appearing nude to be within
five feet (5') of any other person while performing or while nude or seminude.
(1984 Code § 5.72.090)
4-5-10: BUSINESS CATEGORIES; NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any business premises to operate or be licensed for
more than one category of sexually oriented business, except that a business
may have a license for both outcall services and a seminude dancing agency on
the same premises.
   B.   The categories of sexually oriented businesses are:
      1.   Outcall services.
      2.   Adult businesses.
      3.   Seminude entertainment businesses.
      4.   Seminude dancing agency. (1984 Code § 5.72.100)
4-5-11: EMPLOYEE LICENSES:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to employ or for any
individual to be employed by a sexually oriented business employee, unless that
employee first obtains a sexually oriented business employee license. (1984
Code § 5.72.110)
4-5-12: LICENSE APPLICATION DISCLOSURES REQUIRED:
Before any applicant may be licensed to operate a sexually oriented business or
as a sexually oriented business employee pursuant to this chapter, the
applicant shall submit, on a form to be supplied by the city license authority,
the following:
   A.   The correct legal name of each applicant, corporation, partnership,
limited partnership or entity doing business under an assumed name.
   B.   1. If the applicant is a corporation, partnership or limited
partnership, or individual or entity doing business under an assumed name, the
information required below for individual applicants shall be submitted for
each partner and each principal of an applicant, and for each officer, director
and any shareholder (corporate or personal) of more than ten percent (10%) of
the stock of any applicant. Any holding company, or any entity holding more
than ten percent (10%) of an applicant, shall be considered an applicant for
purposes of disclosure under this chapter.
      2.   The shareholder disclosure requirements above shall only be
applicable for outcall service licenses.
   C.   All corporations, partnerships or noncorporate entities included on the
application shall also identify each individual authorized by the corporation,
partnership or noncorporate entity to sign the checks for such corporation,
partnership or noncorporate entity.
   D.   For all applicants or individuals, the application must also state:
      1.   Any other names or aliases used by the individual;
      2.   The age, date and place of birth;
      3.   Height;
      4.   Weight;
      5.   Color of hair;
      6.   Color of eyes;
      7.   Present business address and telephone number;
      8.   Present residence and telephone number;
      9.   Utah driver's license or identification number; and
      10.   Social security number.
   E.   Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least eighteen (18)
years of age.
   F.   Attached to the form, as provided above, two (2) color photographs of
the applicant clearly showing the individual's face and the individual's
fingerprints on a form provided by the police department. For persons not
residing in the city, the photographs and fingerprints may be on a form from
the law enforcement jurisdiction where the person resides. Fees for the
photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant directly to the
issuing agency.
   G.   For any individual applicant required to obtain a sexually oriented
business employee license as an escort or a seminude entertainer, a certificate
from the Utah County health department, stating that the individual has, within
thirty (30) days immediately preceding the date of the original or renewal
application, been examined and found to be free of any contagious or
communicable diseases.
   H.   A statement of the business, occupation or employment history of the
applicant for three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application.
   I.   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the applicant
for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application, including whether such applicant previously operating, or
seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city, state or territory, has
ever had a license, permit or authorization to do business denied, revoked or
suspended, or has had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation or
suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction,
and state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy
of any order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the
application.
   J.   All criminal convictions or pleas of nolo contendere, except those
which have been expunged, and the disposition of all such arrests for the
applicant, individual or other entity subject to disclosure under this chapter
for five (5) years prior to the date of the application. This disclosure shall
include identification of all ordinance violations, excepting minor traffic
offenses (any traffic offense designated as a felony shall not be construed as
a minor traffic offense), stating the date, place, nature of each conviction or
plea of nolo contendere, and sentence of each conviction or other disposition,
identifying the convicting jurisdiction and sentencing court, and providing the
court identifying case numbers or docket numbers. Application for a sexually
oriented business or employee license shall constitute a waiver of disclosure
of any criminal conviction or plea of nolo contendere for the purposes of any
proceeding involving the business or employee license.
   K.   In the event the applicant is not the owner of record of the real
property upon which the business or proposed business is or is to be located,
the application must be accompanied by a notarized statement from the legal or
equitable owner of the possessory interest in the property specifically
acknowledging the type of business for which the applicant seeks a license for
the property. In addition to furnishing such notarized statement, the applicant
shall furnish the name, address and phone number of the owner of record of the
property, as well as the copy of the lease or rental agreement pertaining to
the premises in which the service is or will be located.
   L.   A description of the services to be provided by the business, with
sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to determine what business
will be transacted on the premises, together with a schedule of usual fees for
services to be charged by the licensee, and any rules, regulations or
employment guidelines under or by which the business intends to operate. This
description shall also include:
      1.   The hours that the business or service will be open to the public,
and the methods of promoting the health and safety of the employees and patrons
and preventing them from engaging in illegal activity.
      2.   The methods of supervision preventing the employees from engaging in
acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities.
      3.   The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this chapter or other statutes or ordinances.
      4.   The methods of screening employees and customers in order to promote
the health and safety of employees and customers and prevent the transmission
of disease and prevent the commission of acts of prostitution or other criminal
activity. It is unlawful to knowingly submit false or materially misleading
information on or with a sexually oriented business license application, or to
fail to disclose or omit information for the purpose of obtaining a sexually
oriented business or employee license. (1984 Code § 5.72.120)
4-5-13: FEES FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application and license fees shall be as specified in the city
consolidated fee schedule.
   B.   An application fee shall not be prorated. The annual fee described in
this section may be prorated, but not to an amount less than one-fourth (1/4)
of the annual fee.
   C.   The fees described in this section are in addition to fees paid for
business licenses or beer licenses.
   D.   An application is not complete until all appropriate fees have been
paid. (1984 Code § 5.72.130; amd. 2015 Code)
4-5-14: BOND REQUIRED:
Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall post with the
city recorder, or his/her designee, a cash or corporate surety bond payable to
the city in the amount specified in the city consolidated fee schedule. Any
fines assessed against the business, officers or managers for violations of
city ordinances shall be taken from this bond if not paid in cash within ten
(10) days after notice of the fine, unless an appeal is filed as provided by
this chapter. In the event the funds are drawn against the cash or surety bond
to pay such fines, the bond shall be replenished within fifteen (15) days of
the date of notice of any draw against it. (1984 Code § 5.72.140; amd. 2015
Code)
4-5-15: PREMISES, LOCATION AND NAME:
   A.   It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued pursuant to
this chapter at any location other than the licensed premises. Any location to
which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by such business shall
require a separate license.
   B.   It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business in the
city under any name other than the business name specified in the application.
(1984 Code § 5.72.150)
4-5-16: LICENSE ISSUANCE CONDITIONS:
The city recorder, or his/her designee, shall approve the issuance of a license
to the applicant within thirty (30) days after receipt of a completed
application, unless the official finds one or more of the following:
   A.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines
or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed on the applicant in
relation to a sexually oriented business.
   C.   The applicant has falsely answered a material question or request for
information as authorized by this chapter.
   D.   The applicant has violated a provision of this chapter or similar
provisions found in statutes or ordinances from any jurisdiction within two (2)
years immediately preceding the application; a criminal conviction for a
violation of a provision of this chapter or similar provisions from any
jurisdiction, whether or not it is being appealed, is conclusive evidence of a
violation, but a conviction is not necessary to prove a violation.
   E.   The premises to be used for the business has been disapproved by the
Utah County health department, the fire department, the police department, the
building officials or the zoning officials as not being in compliance with
applicable laws and ordinances of the city. If any of the foregoing reviewing
agencies cannot complete their review within the thirty (30) day approval or
denial period, the agency or department may obtain from the city recorder, or
his/her designee, an extension of time of no more than fifteen (15) days for
their review. The total time for the city to approve or deny a license shall
not exceed forty five (45) days from the receipt of a completed application and
payment of all fees. Businesses located outside of the corporate boundaries of
the city, but requiring a license under this chapter, may be denied a license
pursuant to this chapter if the business does not have a valid business license
to conduct business at the business location from the appropriate jurisdiction
for that location.
      1.   Upon receipt of an application, all departments required to review
the application shall determine within seven (7) days whether or not the
application is incomplete in items needed for processing. Incomplete
applications shall immediately be returned to the applicant with a
specification of the items which are incomplete.
      2.   The time for processing applications specified in this section shall
begin to run from the receipt of a complete application.
      3.   In the event that a license for seminude entertainment, seminude
dancing agencies, adult businesses or seminude entertainment businesses has not
been disapproved within thirty (30) days or the forty five (45) days allowed
after an extension, the city shall issue the license pending completion of the
city review.
      4.   Any license issued pursuant to subsection E3 of this section may be
revoked by the city, pursuant to the revocation procedures provided for herein,
if the completed review determines that the license should have been denied.
   F.   The required license fees have not been paid.
   G.   All applicable sales and use taxes have not been paid.
   H.   An applicant for the proposed business is in violation of or not in
compliance with this chapter or similar provisions found in statutes or
ordinances from any jurisdiction.
   I.   An applicant has been convicted or pled nolo contendere to a crime:
      1.   Involving prostitution; exploitation of prostitution; aggravated
promotion of prostitution; aggravated exploitation of prostitution;
solicitation of sex acts; sex acts for hire; compelling prostitution; aiding
prostitution; sale, distribution or display of material harmful to minors;
sexual performance by minors; possession of child pornography; lewdness;
indecent exposure; any crime involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child;
sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault; rape; forcible sodomy; forcible
sexual abuse; incest; harboring a runaway child; criminal attempt, conspiracy
or solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses or offenses involving
similar elements from any jurisdiction, regardless of the exact title of the
offense; for which:
         a.   Less than two (2) years have elapsed from the date of conviction,
if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; or less than five (5) years if
the convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanors within the five (5) years;
or
         b.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed from the date of
conviction, if the offense is of a felony.
      2.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification pursuant to this section. (1984 Code § 5.72.160)
4-5-17: TERM OF LICENSE:
Sexually oriented business and employee licenses issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be valid from the date of issuance through July 1 of each
succeeding year. The license fees required under the fee schedule set forth
herein shall not be prorated for any portion of a year, but shall be paid in
full for whatever portion of the year the license is applied for. (1984 Code §
5.72.170)
4-5-18: NOTICE OF CHANGE OF INFORMATION:
Any change in the information required to be submitted under this chapter for
either a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business
employee license, shall be given, in writing, to the city recorder, or his/her
designee, and the police department within fourteen (14) days after such
change. (1984 Code § 5.72.180)
4-5-19: TRANSFER LIMITATIONS:
Sexually oriented business licenses granted under this chapter shall not be
transferable. It is unlawful for a license held by an individual to be
transferred. It is unlawful for a license held by a corporation, partnership or
other noncorporate entity to transfer any part in excess of ten percent (10%)
thereof, without filing a new application and obtaining prior city approval. If
any transfer of the controlling interest in a business licensee occurs, the
license is immediately null and void, and the business shall not operate until
a separate new license has been properly issued by the city as provided in this
chapter. (1984 Code § 5.72.190)
4-5-20: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business location within the
boundaries of the city to fail to display the license granted pursuant to this
chapter in a prominent location within the business premises. It is unlawful
for any individual licensed pursuant to this chapter to fail to carry, at all
times while engaged in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries of
the city, their employee license on their person. If the individual is nude,
such license shall be visibly displayed within the same room the employee is
performing. When requested by police, city licensing or other enforcement
personnel or health official, it is unlawful to fail to show the appropriate
licenses while engaged in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries
of the city. (1984 Code § 5.72.200)
4-5-21: STATEMENT IN ADVERTISEMENTS:
It is unlawful for any advertisement by the sexually oriented business or
employee to fail to state that the business or employee is licensed by the
city, and shall include the city license number. (1984 Code § 5.72.210)
4-5-22: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented business
employee to:
   A.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years on the licensed
premises; except that in adult businesses which exclude minors from less than
all of the business premises, minors shall not be permitted in excluded areas.
   B.   Allow, offer or agree to conduct any outcall business with persons
under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   C.   To allow, offer or agree to allow any alcohol to be stored, used or
consumed on or in the licensed premises.
   D.   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any customer
is in the premises.
   E.   Allow, offer or agree to gambling on the licensed premises.
   F.   Allow, offer or agree to any sexually oriented business employee
touching or being touched by any patron or customer; except that outcall
employees and customers may touch, except that any touching of specified
anatomical areas, whether clothed or unclothed, is prohibited.
   G.   Allow, offer or agree to illegal possession, use, sale or distribution
of controlled substances on the licensed premises.
   H.   Allow sexually oriented business employees to possess, use, sell or
distribute controlled substances while engaged in the activities of the
business.
   I.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of an outcall employee
or business, the outcall employee committing, offering or agreeing to commit
prostitution, attempting to commit prostitution, soliciting prostitution,
soliciting a minor or committing activities harmful to a minor.
   J.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any specified sexual activity as
validly defined by city ordinances or state statute in the presence of any
customer or patrons.
   K.   Allow, offer or agree to any outcall employee appearing before any
customer or patron in a state of dress that violates this chapter.
   L.   Allow, offer or agree to allow a patron or customer to masturbate in
the presence of the sexually oriented business employee or on the premises of a
sexually oriented business.
   M.   Allow, offer or agree to commit an act of lewdness as defined in Utah
Code Annotated title 76. (1984 Code § 5.72.220)
4-5-23: OUTCALL SERVICES; OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any business or employee providing outcall services
contracted for in the city to fail to comply with the following requirements:
   A.   All businesses licensed to provide outcall services pursuant to this
chapter shall provide to each patron a written contract in receipt of pecuniary
compensation for services. The contract shall clearly state the type of
services to be performed, the length of time such service shall be performed,
the total amount such services shall cost the patron, and any special terms or
conditions relating to the services to be performed. The contract need not
include the name of the patron. The business licensee shall keep and maintain a
copy of each written contract entered into pursuant to this section for a
period not less than one year from the date of provision of services
thereunder. The contracts shall be numbered and entered into a register listing
the contract number, date, names of all employees involved in the contract, and
pecuniary compensation paid.
   B.   All outcall businesses licensed pursuant to this chapter shall maintain
an open office or telephone at which the licensee or licensee's designated
agent may be personally contacted during all hours outcall employees are
working. The address and phone number of the license location shall appear and
be included in all patron contracts and published advertisements. For outcall
businesses which premises are licensed within the corporate limits of the city,
private rooms or booths where the patrons may meet with the outcall employee
shall not be provided at the open office or any other location by the service,
nor shall patrons meet outcall employees at the business premises.
   C.   Outcall services shall not advertise in such a manner that would lead a
reasonably prudent person to conclude that specified sexual activities would be
performed by the outcall employee.
   D.   All employees of outcall services who provide outcall services within
the city shall be licensed in accordance with this chapter, regardless of the
primary location of the business. (1984 Code § 5.72.230)
4-5-24: ADULT BUSINESS; DESIGN OF PREMISES:
   A.   In addition to the general requirements of disclosure for a sexually
oriented business, any applicant for a license as an adult business shall also
submit a diagram, drawn to scale, of the premises of the licensee. The design
and construction, prior to granting a license or opening for business, shall
conform to the following:
      1.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms.
      2.   Restrooms may not contain any video reproduction equipment or any of
the business merchandise. Signs shall be posted requiring only one person being
allowed in the restroom per stall, and only one person in any stall at a time,
and requiring that patrons shall not be allowed access to manager station
areas.
      3.   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all
windows, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded.
      4.   The diagram required shall not necessarily be a professional
engineer's or architect's blueprint; however, the diagram must show marked
internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures, and ratings for
illumination capacity.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the licensee and the licensee's employees to
ensure that the views from the manager's station in subsection A of this
section remain unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks, or
any other materials at all times that any patron is present in the premises,
and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted.
   C.   The premises shall at all times be equipped and operated with overhead
lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which
patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot-
candle, measured at floor level. It shall be the duty of the licensee and the
licensee's employees present on the premises to ensure that the illumination
described above is maintained at all times that any patron is present in the
premises. (1984 Code § 5.72.240)
4-5-25: SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS; DESIGN OF PREMISES:
   A.   It is unlawful for business premises licensed for seminude
entertainment to:
      1.   Permit a bed, sofa, mattress or similar item in any room on the
premises; except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the
public or in any office to which patrons are not admitted; and, except that in
an adult theater such items may be on the stage as part of a performance.
      2.   Allow any door on any room used for the business, except for the
door to an office to which patrons shall not be admitted, outside doors and
restroom doors, to be lockable from the inside.
      3.   Provide any room in which the employee or employees and the patron
or patrons are alone together without a separation by a solid physical barrier
at least three feet (3') high and six inches (6") wide. The patron or patrons
shall remain on one side of the barrier and the employee or employees shall
remain on the other side of the barrier.
   B.   Adult theaters shall also require that the performance area shall be
separated from the patrons by a minimum of three feet (3'), which separation
shall be delineated by a physical barrier at least three feet (3') high. (1984
Code § 5.72.250)
4-5-26: SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS; LOCATION RESTRICTION:
It is unlawful for any business licensed for seminude entertainment to be
located within four hundred feet (400') of a business licensed for the sale or
consumption of alcohol. (1984 Code § 5.72.260)
4-5-27: ALCOHOL PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business licensed pursuant to
this chapter to allow the sale, storage, supply or consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the premises thereof.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage on the premises of any sexually oriented business. (1984 Code §
5.72.270)
4-5-28: SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCIES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book, or
otherwise engage the services of a professional dancer, model or performer to
appear in a state of seminudity for pecuniary compensation in or for any
seminude entertainment business or adult theater licensed pursuant to this
chapter, unless such agency is licensed pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or
otherwise engage or permit any person to perform as a professional dancer,
model or performer in a state of seminudity or nudity, either gratuitously or
for compensation, in or for any business licensed pursuant to this chapter,
unless such person is licensed pursuant to this chapter. (1984 Code § 5.72.280)
4-5-29: PERFORMERS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any professional dancer, model or performer, while
performing in any business licensed pursuant to this chapter, to:
   A.   Touch in any manner any other person;
   B.   Throw any object or clothing off the stage area;
   C.   Accept any money, drink, or any other object directly from any person;
   D.   Allow another person to touch such performer or to place any money or
object on the performer or within the costume or person of the performer; or
   E.   Place anything within the costume or adjust or move the costume while
performing so as to render the performer in a state of nudity. (1984 Code §
5.72.290)
4-5-30: PATRONS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any person or any patron of any business to touch in any
manner any performer; to place any money or object on or within the costume or
person of any performer; or to give or offer to give to any such performer any
drinks, money or object while such performer is performing; except that money
may be placed on the stage, which shall not be picked up by the performer
except by hand. (1984 Code § 5.72.300)
4-5-31: NUDITY; DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION:
It is a defense to prosecution or violation under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   A.   By a proprietary school licensed by the state, or a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   B.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation. (1984 Code §
5.72.310)
4-5-32: EXISTING BUSINESSES; COMPLIANCE TIME LIMITS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described herein, whether the herein described activities were
established before or after the effective date hereof and regardless of whether
such persons and businesses are currently licensed to do business in the city.
      1.   All such persons and businesses requiring outcall service licenses
shall have forty five (45) days from the effective date hereof, or until their
current license expires, whichever is first in time, to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   All seminude dancing agency licenses shall have seventy five (75)
days from the effective date hereof, or until their license must be renewed,
whichever is first, to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   All adult businesses and seminude entertainment businesses shall
have one hundred thirty five (135) days from the effective date hereof, or
until their current license must be renewed, whichever is first, to comply with
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   For the 2001-2002 business year, any business required by this chapter
to be licensed as a sexually oriented business shall receive a credit against
any fees previously paid to obtain another regulatory business license fee for
such business year.
   C.   The city recorder, or his/her designee, may grant an extension of the
time limits set forth in subsection A of this section, if an owner of a
sexually oriented business proves that before such time limit expires he is
unable to recoup an investment made in such business. In order to secure an
extension of time, a sexually oriented business owner shall submit to the city
recorder, or his/her designee, a written request for an extension forty five
(45) calendar days prior to the expiration of the applicable time limit set
forth in this section.
      1.   The following information shall accompany an extension request:
         a.   The amount of the owner's investment in the existing enterprise
prior to the effective date hereof;
         b.   The amount of such investment that has been and an estimate of
the amount will be realized on the date the time limit expires;
         c.   Evidence of the existence of any lease obligations undertaken in
reliance on any previously issued business license for the enterprise,
including any contingency clauses therein permitting termination of such lease.
      2.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the city recorder, or his/her
designee, may file an appeal with the city council within thirty (30) days of
the date of the decision specifying the nature of the appeal. (1984 Code §
5.72.320)
4-5-33: VIOLATION; INJUNCTION:
An entity or individual who operates or causes a sexually oriented business to
be operated without a valid license, or who employs or is employed as an
employee of a sexually oriented business, or who operates such a business or
functions as such an employee in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
is subject to a suit for injunction in addition to the civil and criminal
violations provided herein and any other remedy available at law or in equity.
(1984 Code § 5.72.330)
4-5-34: VIOLATION; LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   The city may issue a notice suspending or revoking a sexually oriented
business or employee license granted under this chapter if a licensee or an
employee of the licensee has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Refused to allow any inspection of the premises of the sexually
oriented business specifically authorized by this chapter or by any other
statute or ordinance.
      3.   Failed to replenish the cost bond as provided in this chapter (such
a suspension shall extend until the bond has been replenished).
      4.   Given materially false or misleading information in obtaining the
license.
      5.   Knowingly operated the sexually oriented business or worked under
the employee license during the period when the business licensee or employee
licensee's license was suspended.
      6.   A licensee has committed an offense which would be grounds for
denial of a license for which the time period required has not elapsed.
      7.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed in or on, or solicited for on the licensed
premises, or an outcall employee solicited or committed on or off the premises,
an offense which would be grounds for denial of a license for which a
conviction has been obtained, and the person or persons were employees, whether
or not licensed, of the sexually oriented business at the time the offenses
were committed.
      8.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem
taxes, or sales taxes related to the sexually oriented business.
   B.   Suspension or revocation shall take effect within fifteen (15) days of
the issuance of notice, unless an appeal is filed as provided by this chapter.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license. (1984 Code § 5.72.340)
4-5-35: EFFECT OF LICENSE REVOCATION:
When a license issued pursuant to this chapter is revoked, the revocation shall
continue for one year from its effective date, and the licensee shall not be
issued a sexually oriented business or employee license for one year from the
date of such revocation. (1984 Code § 5.72.350)
4-5-36: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
The denial, suspension or revocation of any license issued pursuant to this
chapter may be appealed to the city council within thirty (30) days of the date
of the decision. (1984 Code § 5.72.360)
4-5-37: VIOLATION; PENALTY; RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   In addition to revocation or suspension of a license, as provided in
this chapter, each violation of this chapter shall, upon citation by the city
recorder, or his/her designee, require the licensee to pay a civil penalty in
the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Such fines shall be deducted from
the cost bond posted pursuant to this chapter, unless paid within ten (10) days
of notice of the fine or the final determination after any appeal. In addition
to the civil fines provided in this chapter, the violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of a violation shall be considered a separate
offense. (1984 Code § 5.72.370; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the sexually
oriented business licensee and/or operator, if such act or omission occurs
either with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee and/or
operator, or as a result of the licensee's and/or operator's negligent failure
to supervise the conduct of the employee, and the sexually oriented business
licensee shall be punishable for such act or omission in the same manner as if
the licensee committed the act or caused the omission.
   C.   A sexually oriented business licensee and/or operator shall be
responsible for the conduct of all employees while on the licensed premises,
and any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee
and/or operator for the purpose of determining whether the licensee's license
shall be revoked, suspended or renewed. (1984 Code § 5.72.370)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Permit Required; Application Procedures; Issuance
4-6-3: Fees; Deadlines
4-6-4: Review Process
4-6-5: Security Deposit
4-6-6: Insurance Requirements; Indemnification
4-6-7: Violation
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
   ADDITIONAL CITY SERVICES: Services required beyond the typical scope of day
to day city operations.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE: An administrative committee comprised of
representatives of city departments that plan and coordinate emergency
response.
   SPECIAL EVENT: An event which is primarily for the purpose of recreation,
entertainment, fundraising or the exercise of expressive activities of a
political nature and may utilize city property in a manner that potentially
interferes with the public's typical and safe use of city property and/or
requires dedication of additional city services. Special events shall not
include: a) privately sponsored events which rent space inside city facilities;
or b) the public use of city property for regular recreational programs that
have an incidental and temporary impact on city property. (Ord. 09-2012, 4-24-
2012)
4-6-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION PROCEDURES; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Permit Required: All special events, as defined in section
4-6-1 of this chapter, require an application and must receive a permit from
the city. Permits shall not be issued until all appropriate fees, including the
estimated costs of additional city services, are paid.
   B.   Application; Fee: All applications for permits shall be made in writing
to the special event coordinator, and the application fee shall be paid to the
special event coordinator at the time of application submission.
   C.   Information Required: All applications made for a special event permit
shall require the following information:
      1.   Type and description of event;
      2.   Name of the sponsoring entity, contact person, address, telephone
number and e-mail address;
      3.   Proposed date, together with beginning and ending times;
      4.   Proposed location, including barricade plan and route map;
      5.   Estimated number of event staff and attendees;
      6.   Admission fee, donation or other consideration to be charged or
requested;
      7.   Temporary Utah sales tax number, if applicable;
      8.   Signature of applicant.
   D.   Temporary Sales Tax License: Special events that will be selling any
taxable item, such as food or memorabilia, will be required to obtain a
temporary sales tax license from the Utah state tax commission, special events
unit.
   E.   Issuance; Signature; Attestation: All permits shall be issued by the
city recorder and signed by the mayor and city recorder, and attested under the
seal of the city.
   F.   Denial; Advertising Costs Not Reimbursed: If an application is denied,
any advertising costs spent prior to denial will not be reimbursed by the city.
(Ord. 23-2014, 6-10-2014)
4-6-3: FEES; DEADLINES:
   A.   Amount Of Fee; Refunds: The city shall fix the amount of the special
event application fee as adopted in the city consolidated fee schedule. The
application fee is intended to cover the cost of the event review and is
therefor not refunded, even if the event permit is denied or is not a special
event. Depending on the nature of the event, and the commitment of city
resources, the applicant will also be responsible for costs associated with any
additional city services as determined by the emergency management committee.
   B.   Deadline For Submitting Application: Applications must be submitted
thirty (30) days in advance for special event permits. (Ord. 09-2012, 4-24-
2012)
4-6-4: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   In order to ensure that all necessary departments are aware of the
event, all special event applications are reviewed by the emergency management
committee. The committee will review the application and make necessary
comments and provide an estimate of costs associated with additional city
services, if necessary. A permit shall not be issued until the committee has
given its approval. During the review of the application, the following will be
considered:
      1.   The impact of the special event on the traffic, security, health and
safety of the public;
      2.   A determination by the committee of appropriate and reasonable
requirements for the mitigation of traffic, security, health and safety
concerns, and an evaluation of the measures proposed by the applicant to
satisfy those requirements;
      3.   The demonstrated ability of the applicant to comply with
requirements necessary to protect the safety, health and welfare of the public;
      4.   The location and duration of the special event and the city ability
to accommodate the event with the necessary resources; and
      5.   Other previously approved special events that could cause scheduling
conflicts during the same period and cause overextension of the city resources
or unsafe congestion on city property.
   B.   If the committee makes a determination that the event is not a "special
event", as defined in section
4-6-1 of this chapter, no permit is necessary and therefor no permit will be
issued.
   C.   If the committee determines that the event requires the provisions of
additional city services, all provisions of this chapter shall apply, including
section
4-6-5, "Security Deposit", of this chapter. (Ord. 23-2014, 6-10-2014)
4-6-5: SECURITY DEPOSIT:
The city requires a one hundred dollar ($100.00) refundable deposit at the time
of permit issuance. The deposit will be used if the actual cost of additional
city services exceeds the estimated cost. These costs might include, but are
not limited to, additional cleanup, additional personnel or damage incurred
during the event. If the additional cost exceeds the amount of the deposit, the
sponsor or organizer of the event shall reimburse the city for the cost
difference within thirty (30) days of being notified of the actual costs. Any
excess deposit will be returned to the sponsor within thirty (30) days of the
conclusion of the event. (Ord. 09-2012, 4-24-2012)
4-6-6: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS; INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   A commercial general liability insurance policy of three million
dollars ($3,000,000.00) is required to hold a special event within the city.
The policy must name as an additional insured Lehi City Corporation and its
officers, employees and agents, and as required, any other public entity
involved in the event. Such insurance shall protect the city from all claims
for damages to property and bodily injury in connection with the event. Proof
of insurance is required no less than seven (7) days prior to the event.
   B.   By issuing a special event permit, the city makes no guarantees and
assumes no liability for the safety of participants or spectators of special
events.
   C.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the special event permit holder
shall indemnify, defend and hold the city and the city officers, agents,
representatives and employees harmless from any and all claims, demands,
liabilities, damages, injuries, causes of action, costs and expenses, including
attorney fees, arising out of or in any way related to the use of the special
event permit, caused in whole or in part by any negligent act or omission of
the permit holder, or anyone directly or indirectly employed by the permit
holder. (Ord. 23-2014, 6-10-2014)
4-6-7: VIOLATION:
A violation of this chapter shall be an infraction, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 09-2012, 4-24-2012; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TOWING AND PARKING LICENSE
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: License Required; Scope
4-7-3: License Application
4-7-4: License Issuance And Renewal
4-7-5: License Fees
4-7-6: Duty To Display License
4-7-7: Investigation By Police Department
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
indicated. However, in the event of a conflict between a definition in this
chapter and a definition set forth in Utah code section 72-9-102, the latter
definition shall apply.
AUTHORIZED VEHICLE: A vehicle parked on private property for which permission
has been granted to park such vehicle.
BOOT: The use of a device by a parking enforcement or tow truck service
business to temporarily immobilize, disable, or electronically monitor a
vehicle for purposes of enforcing parking restrictions.
MOTOR CARRIER: A person engaged in or transacting the business of transporting
passengers, freight, merchandise, or other property by a commercial vehicle on
a highway within the state of Utah and includes a tow truck service business.
PARKING ENFORCEMENT OPERATION: The providing of parking enforcement services
for compensation within the corporate limits of Lehi City.
PARKING ENFORCEMENT SERVICE: The practice of booting vehicles without the
owner's consent for the purpose of enforcing parking restrictions on public
streets, private property, or public parking lots restricted to use.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, or
joint stock association.
TOW TRUCK: A motor vehicle constructed, designed, altered, or equipped
primarily for the purpose of towing or removing damaged, disabled, abandoned,
seized, or impounded vehicles from a highway or other place by means of a
crane, hoist, tow bar, tow line, dolly, tilt bed, or other means.
TOW TRUCK SERVICE: The functions and any ancillary operations associated with
recovering, removing, and towing a vehicle and its load from a highway or other
place by means of a tow truck.
TOWING OPERATION: The providing of tow truck services for compensation within
the corporate limits of Lehi City, whether or not the towing extends beyond the
city limits. Towing operations also include the storage of a towed vehicle,
pending its return to the owner thereof by the person or the agent who towed
such vehicle. (Ord. 42-2016, 7-12-2016)
4-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; SCOPE:
   A.   License Required: Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is
unlawful for any person, tow truck motor carrier, or person with a place of
business located within Lehi City, to conduct a towing or parking enforcement
operation within the corporate limits of Lehi City without a Lehi City business
license authorizing such operations.
   B.   License Exemption: No Lehi City business license is required to conduct
a towing or parking enforcement operation if:
      1.   A tow truck motor carrier has a county or municipal business license
for a place of business located within a county or municipality other than Lehi
City but within the state of Utah.
         a.   Information Required: Notwithstanding the foregoing, a business
which conducts towing operations within Lehi City shall first provide the
following information to the Lehi City business license office:
            (1)   Business name, address, and telephone number;
            (2)   Evidence of a current business license issued by another
municipality or a county within Utah;
            (3)   Current fee schedule;
            (4)   Identification of vehicle operators employed by the business;
            (5)   Description, vehicle identification number, and license
number of each tow truck used in the business; and
            (6)   Evidence of the surety bond and property damage insurance
required by subsections
4-7-3A7 and A8 of this chapter.
         b.   Current Information: If any of the information in subsections B1a
(1) through B1a(6) of this section changes, the business shall deliver current
information to the Lehi City business license office within ten (10) business
days following the change.
         c.   Certificate Issued: Upon receipt of a complete application, a
certificate may be issued to a business which conducts towing or parking
enforcement.
         d.   Certificate Renewal: A certificate issued under this chapter
shall be renewed annually by showing conformity with subsections B1a(1) through
B1a(6) of this section.
         e.   Denial, Suspension, And Revocation Of Certification: Failure to
provide changes as required by subsection B1b of this section to the Lehi City
business license office, failure to comply with the requirements in subsections
B1a(1) through B1a(6) of this section, and any violation of section
7-4-1 of this code, as applicable, shall be grounds for denial, suspension, or
revocation of any certification issued under this chapter.
   C.   Chapter Inapplicable: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply
to:
      1.   A person who conducts a parking enforcement or towing service
operation on the person's property using the person's own equipment and
personnel; or
      2.   The operation is authorized by the Lehi City police department.
(Ord. 42-2016, 7-12-2016)
4-7-3: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   Application: An application for a business license to conduct a towing
or parking enforcement operation shall be filed in writing with the Lehi City
business license office, as set forth in section
4-1-2 of this title. In addition to the information required by such section,
the license application shall include:
      1.   The business name, which cannot be substantially similar to the name
of any Lehi City department responsible for parking enforcement or tow truck
services;
      2.   Identification of vehicle operators employed by the business;
      3.   A description, vehicle identification number, and license plate
number of each tow truck and parking enforcement vehicle used in the business;
      4.   A valid driver's license and certification card issued by the Utah
department of transportation for each tow truck driver;
      5.   Current department of transportation certificates for each tow truck
motor carrier, tow truck, and driver;
      6.   A statement disclosing whether any person listed in the application
or any driver employed by the business has ever been convicted of a felony or
misdemeanor, other than minor traffic tickets, and if so, the nature of the
offense, and where and when it was committed;
      7.   Competent evidence of a surety bond of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) from good and sufficient sureties to ensure continued compliance
with this chapter;
      8.   Competent evidence of valid property damage liability insurance in
the amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) issued by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state of Utah with the applicant named
as an insured, including the policy number and insurance company name;
      9.   Competent evidence that the tow truck service business stores
vehicles in a secure towing and impound yard within Lehi City corporate limits
that complies with state law and Lehi City development code 12.1.40(g); and
      10.   A list of current fees for all services performed by the business.
   B.   Change Of Information: If any of the information in subsections A1
through A10 of this section changes, the business shall deliver current
information to the Lehi City business license office within ten (10) business
days following the change.
   C.   Denial, Suspension, And Revocation Of License: Failure to provide
changes as required by subsection B of this section to the Lehi City business
license office, failure to comply with the requirements in subsections A1
through A10 of this section, and any violation of section
7-4-1 of this code, as applicable, shall be grounds for denial, suspension, or
revocation of any business license issued under this chapter. (Ord. 42-2016, 7-
12-2016)
4-7-4: LICENSE ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL:
   A.   License Issuance: Upon receipt of a complete application, a business
license may be issued to a business which conducts towing or parking
enforcement operations and which has a principal place of business within the
corporate limits of Lehi City.
   B.   License Renewal: A business license issued under this chapter may be
renewed by showing conformity with subsections 4-7-3A1 through A10 of this
chapter and section
7-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 42-2016, 7-12-2016)
4-7-5: LICENSE FEES:
The fee for a business entity desiring to provide tow truck or parking
enforcement services within Lehi City shall be as shown on the consolidated fee
schedule adopted by the municipal council. Such fee shall be in addition to any
other fee and shall be assessed in consideration of the expense incurred by the
city to conduct required background checks prior to issuing a license. (Ord.
42-2016, 7-12-2016)
4-7-6: DUTY TO DISPLAY LICENSE:
   A.   Every employee of a towing or parking enforcement business shall
personally carry:
      1.   A valid Utah driver's license which allows for operation of a tow
truck or parking enforcement vehicle;
      2.   In the case of tow truck operators only, evidence of a personal
certification card issued by the Utah department of transportation;
      3.   Evidence of a valid business license or certificate issued by Lehi
City, if a license or certificate is required pursuant to section
4-7-2 of this chapter; and
      4.   A business identification card giving the name, address and phone
number of the business and identifying the operator as an employee thereof.
(Ord. 42-2016, 7-12-2016)
4-7-7: INVESTIGATION BY POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Each application for a license shall be referred to the police
department, which may investigate to determine compliance with the requirements
in this section.
   B.   Background checks may be conducted on all employees of a business
desiring to obtain a license under this chapter.
   C.   A business license may be denied if a background check discloses any of
the following:
      1.   Conviction of a crime or any pending criminal citation or
information not yet adjudicated involving moral turpitude, theft, narcotics,
illegal drugs, or property damage unless a period of not less than five (5)
years has elapsed from the date of the conviction or the date of release from
confinement for such offense, whichever is later; or
      2.   Conviction of a felony for any reason unless a period of not less
than ten (10) years has elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of
release from confinement for such offense, whichever is later.
      3.   Any person aggrieved by a decision to deny a business license may
appeal such decision in accordance with section
4-1-6 of this title. (Ord. 42-2016, 7-12-2016)
TITLE 5
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Solid Waste And Recycling Removal Service; Rates; Compliance Required
5-1-3: City Ownership Of Solid Waste, Recycling Or Green Waste
5-1-4: Burying Or Dumping Within City Limits Prohibited
5-1-5: Solid Waste Accumulation Prohibited
5-1-6: Receptacles Clean And Covered
5-1-7: Materials Placed In Receptacles
5-1-8: Allowing Solid Waste To Fall Upon Street Unlawful
5-1-9: Requirements For Hauling Solid Waste, Recycling And Green Waste
Materials
5-1-10: Vehicles Loaded With Solid Waste Not To Remain Standing On Street
5-1-11: Weekly Removal Required
5-1-12: City Council To Determine Rates
5-1-13: Occupant Responsible For Sanitary Condition Of Premises
5-1-14: Violation; Penalty
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given in this section. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future; words in
the plural number include the singular number; and words in the singular number
include words in the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and
not merely directory:
   CITY: Lehi City.
   GREEN WASTE: Waste resulting from maintenance or removal of vegetation,
including, but not limited to, grass, brush, branches, leaves, flowers, shrubs
and small trees.
   GREEN WASTE CONTAINER: The container provided to residences for removal of
green waste material.
   NEIGHBORHOOD CLEANUP ROLL-OFF: The container provided by the city for the
disposal of any type of waste, except hazardous waste, tires, paint,
refrigerators and excessive amounts of concrete.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER: The container provided to residences for removal of
recyclable material.
   RECYCLING MATERIAL: Waste materials capable of reuse, including, but not
limited to, newsprint, aluminum, ferrous and nonferrous cans, plastic
materials, mixed paper, and cardboard. This term excludes all dangerous wastes
and hazardous wastes, as well as solid wastes intended for disposal in a land
fill, incinerator or solid waste disposal facility.
   REFUSE CONTAINER: The container provided to residences for removal of
garbage by the city service provider.
   SERVICE PROVIDER: The city, or a person, a firm or a corporation authorized
by the city engaged in the removal of garbage from residences within the city.
   SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid and semisolid wastes,
including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes and swill. (1984 Code §
8.32.010; amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-2: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING REMOVAL SERVICE; RATES; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   All residential property in the city shall be provided with solid waste
and recycling material removal service by the city or by the contractor hired
by the city, for the hauling away and disposal of "solid waste" and "recycling
material", as the same is defined in section
5-1-1 of this chapter; and every person having solid waste and recycling
material to be collected and disposed of shall pay the minimum charge
established by resolution of the city council, and such other charges as may be
established by classification of rates based on the type and needs for solid
waste and recycling material, all to be established by resolution of the city
council.
   B.   It is unlawful for any owner or his agent or other person having charge
of or occupying any property located within the city to remove or dispose of
any "solid waste" or "recycling material", as defined in section
5-1-1 of this chapter, other than in accordance with the rules and regulations
to be established by resolution of the city council, and the person must make
the solid waste and recycling material available for collection and disposal in
accordance with the rules and regulations established by resolution of the city
council. Every person within the limits of the city who has solid waste and
recycling material to be collected and disposed of shall be assessed and
charged as stated in subsection A of this section. (1984 Code § 8.32.060; amd.
2015 Code)
5-1-3: CITY OWNERSHIP OF SOLID WASTE, RECYCLING OR GREEN WASTE:
Ownership of solid waste, recycling material and green waste set out for
collection shall be vested in the city, or its designee. (1984 Code § 8.32.070;
amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-4: BURYING OR DUMPING WITHIN CITY LIMITS PROHIBITED:
No person, firm or corporation shall, for the purpose of final disposal
thereof, dump, place or bury in any lot, street, land, or in any alley, or in
any water or waterway, within the corporate limits of the city, any solid
waste, or any other deleterious or offensive substances. (1984 Code § 8.32.080;
amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-5: SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED:
No person owning or occupying any building, lot or premises in the city shall
suffer, allow or permit to collect and remain upon the lot or premises any
solid waste for a period of more than one week. (1984 Code § 8.32.090; amd.
2015 Code)
5-1-6: RECEPTACLES CLEAN AND COVERED:
All solid waste, recycling and green waste receptacles shall be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition by the owner or person using the same, and such
receptacles shall be kept covered at all times except when solid waste,
recycling and green waste are being deposited therein or removed therefrom.
(1984 Code § 8.32.110; amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-7: MATERIALS PLACED IN RECEPTACLES:
All solid waste shall be placed in the solid waste receptacle. Recycling
receptacles may only be used for approved recycling material. Green waste
receptacles may only be used for approved green waste material. (1984 Code §
8.32.120; amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-8: ALLOWING SOLID WASTE TO FALL UPON STREET UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person engaged in hauling solid waste of any kind upon
the streets of the city to permit, suffer, allow or cause any of the matter to
fall into or to remain in the streets. (1984 Code § 8.32.140; amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-9: REQUIREMENTS FOR HAULING SOLID WASTE, RECYCLING AND GREEN WASTE
MATERIALS:
It is unlawful for any person to convey, transport or haul upon the streets of
the city any solid waste unless the same is contained in a sanitary receptacle
tightly covered and in good condition and adequate to prevent spillage or
escape of noxious odors. Any person or company transporting or hauling solid
waste that does not contain liquid or noxious odors, such as construction
debris, recycling material or green waste, must cover the load to ensure waste
does not fall upon city streets. (1984 Code § 8.32.150; amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-10: VEHICLES LOADED WITH SOLID WASTE NOT TO REMAIN STANDING ON STREET:
It is unlawful for any person to suffer, permit or allow any vehicle controlled
by him and which is loaded with solid waste or other materials specified herein
to be or remain standing on any public street within the city any longer than
may be necessary for the purpose of loading the same or moving the same to its
destination in accordance with applicable traffic laws and regulations. (1984
Code § 8.32.160; amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-11: WEEKLY REMOVAL REQUIRED:
Removal of solid waste and green waste from the premises shall be made at least
once a week from private residences and businesses. The following types of
businesses are required to have solid waste removed at least twice a week: all
meat, fish, game and vegetable markets, restaurants, boarding houses, hotels,
hospitals and other like businesses. (1984 Code § 8.32.190; amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-12: CITY COUNCIL TO DETERMINE RATES:
The fees for solid waste collection, including recycling and green waste
collection, are determined by the city council. The fees for stated services
are established as part of the city consolidated fee schedule. (1984 Code §
8.32.200; amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-13: OCCUPANT RESPONSIBLE FOR SANITARY CONDITION OF PREMISES:
The owner, or his agent, or the occupant, of any premises within the city,
shall be responsible for the sanitary condition of the premises occupied by
him, and it is unlawful for any person to place, deposit or allow to be placed
or deposited on his premises any waste, except as designated by the terms of
this chapter. It is unlawful to place or deposit waste on another person's
premises. (1984 Code § 8.32.210)
5-1-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 8.32.240; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Purpose
5-2-2: Definitions
5-2-3: Nuisance Defined
5-2-4: Exceptions
5-2-5: Responsibility For Nuisances
5-2-6: Administration And Enforcement
5-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a means for the city and individuals
to identify nuisances within the city and to provide a means for correcting or
abating the nuisances. The city needs the ability to abate nuisances in order
to protect the health and safety of the public, to foster neighborhood
stability, to preserve the appearance, character and beauty of neighborhoods,
to encourage community pride, to preserve the value of property, and to protect
the general welfare of the city and its citizens, businesses and visitors.
(1984 Code § 8.20.010)
5-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall mean:
   ABATE: To repair, replace, remove, destroy, correct or otherwise remedy a
condition which constitutes a nuisance by such means, in such a manner and to
such an extent as the enforcement official determines is necessary in the
interest of the general health, safety and welfare of the community.
   COMPLETION DATE: The date by which the responsible person must abate a
nuisance.
   EMERGENCY: A situation which, in the opinion of the enforcement official,
requires immediate action to prevent or eliminate an immediate threat to the
health or safety of a person or property.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: Any person authorized to enforce violations of this
code or applicable state codes.
   OWNER: Any person who, alone or with others, has title or interest in any
building or premises, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.
For the purpose of giving notice, the term "owner" also includes any person in
physical possession.
   PREMISES: A plot of ground, whether occupied or not.
   PROPERTY: A building or structure, or the premises on which the building or
structure is located, or undeveloped land.
   PUBLIC PLACE: An area generally visible to public view and includes alleys,
bridges, driveways, parking lots, parks, plazas, sidewalks, streets and
buildings open to the general public, including those that serve food or drink
or provide entertainment, and the doorways and entrances to buildings or
dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON: The person responsible for correcting or abating a
nuisance pursuant to this chapter. The "responsible person" includes the
property owner and any person who causes or permits a nuisance to occur or
remain upon property in the city, and includes, but is not limited to, the
owner, lessor, lessee or other person entitled to control, use and/or occupy
property where a nuisance occurs. In cases where there is more than one
"responsible person", the city may proceed against one, some or all of them.
(1984 Code § 8.20.020; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2-3: NUISANCE DEFINED:
This section defines "nuisance" by providing five (5) general definitions of
what constitutes a nuisance (subsection A of this section), and then providing
specific examples of situations, conduct or activities that constitute
nuisances (subsection B of this section). The purpose of the general
definitions is to allow the city to classify an offending situation, conduct or
activity as a nuisance, even though the situation, conduct or activity may not
be listed as a nuisance in the specific examples. The first three (3) general
definitions are taken directly from state law. The purpose of listing the
specific examples is to identify some of the specific situations, conduct and
activities that the city intends to abate as nuisances.
   A.   General Definition Of Nuisance: Any activity that meets any one or more
of the five (5) definitions set forth below shall constitute a nuisance if it
occurs within the city:
      1.   Nuisance Injurious To Health: "Nuisance", as defined in Utah Code
Annotated section 78B-6-1101: Anything which is injurious to health, indecent,
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
      2.   Nuisance Dangerous To Life: "Nuisance", as defined in Utah Code
Annotated section 76-10-801: Any item, thing, manner, or condition whatsoever
that is dangerous to human life or health or renders soil, air, water or food
impure or unwholesome.
      3.   Nuisance Unlawful: "Nuisance", as defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 76-10-803: Unlawfully doing any act or omitting to perform any duty,
which act or omission:
         a.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of three (3) or more persons;
         b.   Offends public decency;
         c.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake, stream, canal or basin, or any public
park, square, street or highway; or
         d.   In any way renders three (3) or more persons insecure in life or
the use of property. An act which affects three (3) or more persons in any of
the ways specified in this subsection is still a nuisance regardless of the
extent to which the annoyance or damage inflicted on individuals is unequal.
      4.   Nuisance Endangering Others: "Nuisance", a condition which:
         a.   Wrongfully annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health or safety of others; or
         b.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
render dangerous for passage, any public park, square, street or highway, or
any other public place; or
         c.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use
of property, and which affects the rights of an entire community or
neighborhood, although the extent of the damage may be unequal.
      5.   Specific Nuisances Listed: Anything specifically listed as a
nuisance in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Nuisances Enumerated: Every situation, conduct or activity listed below
constitutes a nuisance and may be abated. The listed examples are not
exhaustive; a situation, conduct or activity not listed below, but coming
within one of the general definitions of nuisance listed above, shall also
constitute a nuisance. The first six (6) listed nuisances are also listed as
nuisances pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 78B-6-1101:
      1.   Drug Houses: Every building or premises where the unlawful sale,
manufacture, service, storage, distribution, dispensing, or acquisition of any
controlled substance, precursor, or analog specified in Utah Code Annotated
section 78B-6-1107 occurs.
      2.   Gambling: Every building or premises where gambling is permitted to
be played, conducted, or dealt upon as prohibited in Utah Code Annotated title
76, chapter 10, part 11 (gambling) which creates the conditions of a "nuisance"
as defined in this chapter.
      3.   Gangs: Every building or premises wherein criminal activity is
committed in concert with two (2) or more persons as provided in Utah Code
Annotated section 76-3-203.1.
      4.   Party Houses: Every building or premises where parties occur
frequently which create conditions of a "nuisance" as defined in this chapter.
      5.   Prostitution: Every building or premises where prostitution or where
the promotion of prostitution is regularly carried on by one or more persons as
provided in Utah Code Annotated title 76, chapter 10, part 13 (prostitution).
      6.   Weapons: Every building or premises where a violation of Utah Code
Annotated title 76, chapter 10, part 5 (weapons) occurs on the premises.
      7.   Unsafe Condition: A condition that unreasonably or unlawfully
affects the health or safety of one or more persons.
      8.   Fire Hazard: A condition which causes a likelihood of a fire.
      9.   Noxious Emanations: Emanation of noxious or unreasonable odors,
fumes, gas, smoke, soot or cinders.
      10.   Noxious Weeds: Noxious weeds located on vacant lots or other
property, along public sidewalks or the outer edge of any public street, or
weeds in any other location, which constitute a fire hazard.
      11.   Refuse: Keeping or storing any refuse or waste matter which
interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of nearby property.
      12.   Stagnant Water: Polluted or stagnant water which constitutes an
unhealthy or unsafe condition.
      13.   Improper Accumulations: Accumulation of soil, litter, debris, plant
trimmings, or trash visible from the street or an adjoining property.
      14.   Accumulation Of Junk: Accumulation of used or damaged lumber; junk;
salvage materials; abandoned, discarded or unused furniture; stoves, sinks,
toilets, cabinets, or other fixtures or equipment storage so as to be visible
from a public street, alley, or adjoining property. However, nothing herein
shall preclude the placement of stacked firewood for personal noncommercial use
on the premises.
      15.   Attractive Nuisances: Any attractive nuisance dangerous to children
and other persons, including, but not limited to, abandoned, broken, or
neglected household appliances, equipment and machinery, abandoned foundations
or excavations, or improperly maintained or improperly secured pools.
      16.   Vegetation: Dead, decayed, diseased or hazardous trees, weeds,
hedges, and overgrown or uncultivated vegetation which is in a hazardous
condition, is an obstruction to pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or which is
likely to harbor rats, vermin or other pests.
      17.   Dust: Any premises which causes excessive dust due to lack of
landscaping, nonmaintenance or other cause.
      18.   Improper Storage: The keeping, storing, depositing or accumulating
on the premises, or in the public right of way for an unreasonable period of
time, dirt, sand, gravel, concrete, or other similar materials, or maintenance
of such material on public rights of way. Material stored as part of an active
construction project shall not be considered a nuisance.
      19.   Garbage Can: The leaving of any garbage can or refuse container in
the street, other than on collection day, for more than twenty four (24) hours
after the collection day.
      20.   Construction Equipment: Construction equipment or machinery of any
type or description parked or stored on property when it is readily visible
from a public street, alley or adjoining property, except while excavation,
construction or demolition operations covered by an active building permit are
in progress on the subject property or an adjoining property, or where the
property is zoned for the storage of construction equipment and/or machinery.
      21.   Improper Sign: Improper maintenance of a sign; signs which
advertise a business that is no longer extant on the property; or signs in the
public right of way.
      22.   Improper Parking Or Storage:
         a.   Parking or storage of inoperative, unregistered, abandoned,
wrecked or dismantled vehicles, boats, trailers or vehicle parts, including
recreational vehicles, on a premises or in the public right of way. Storage or
parking that is specifically allowed by the city zoning ordinance shall not be
considered a nuisance.
         b.   Parking or storage of registered vehicles, trailers or boats in
violation of city ordinance.
      23.   Hazardous Conditions: Any wall, sign, fence, gate, hedge or
structure maintained in such condition of deterioration or disrepair as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property.
      24.   Graffiti: Graffiti which remains on the exterior of any building,
fence, sign or other structure and is visible from a public street.
      25.   Improper Maintenance: Maintenance of buildings and/or structures in
such condition as to be deemed defective or in a condition of deterioration or
disrepair, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Any building or structure which is unfit for human habitation, or
which is an unreasonable hazard to the health of people residing in the
vicinity thereof, or which presents an unreasonable fire hazard in the vicinity
where it is located; or
         b.   Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed, altered,
enlarged, converted, moved or maintained contrary to the provisions of city
ordinances, or any use of land, buildings or premises in violation of city
ordinances; or
         c.   Buildings which are abandoned, partially destroyed, or left in an
unreasonable state of partial construction for a period of six (6) months or
longer. An "unreasonable state of partial construction" is defined as any
unfinished building or structure where the appearance or condition of the
building or structure does not meet the requirements for finished buildings or
structures as required by applicable city ordinances or building codes. The
building or structure shall not be considered to be a nuisance if it is under
active construction; or
         d.   Buildings having dry rot, warping, termite infestation, decay,
excessive cracking, peeling or chalking, as to render the building unsightly
and/or in a state of disrepair; or
         e.   Buildings with missing doors and/or windows containing broken
glass and/or no glass at all where the window is of a type which normally
contains glass; or
         f.   Building exteriors, walls, fences, gates, driveways, sidewalks,
walkways, signs or ornamentation, or alleys maintained in such condition as to
render them unsightly and/or in a state of disrepair; or
         g.   Buildings or conditions that violate any building, electrical,
plumbing, fire, housing or other code adopted by the city.
      26.   City Code Nuisances: Any violation of a city code section that
expressly declares a specific situation, conduct or activity to be a nuisance.
      27.   Alcohol: Every property or premises not licensed under applicable
state law or city ordinance, where any intoxicating liquors or alcohol are kept
for unlawful use, sale or distribution.
      28.   Inappropriate Conduct: Every property or premises where there
exists an environment which causes, encourages or allows individuals or groups
of individuals to commit one or more of the following acts on the property,
premises or adjacent public place, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Illegally consuming intoxicating liquor or alcohol;
         b.   Publicly urinating or defecating;
         c.   By physical action, intentionally causing or attempting to cause
another person to reasonably fear imminent bodily injury or the commission of a
criminal act upon their person or upon property in their immediate possession;
         d.   Engaging in acts of violence, including fighting amongst
themselves;
         e.   Discharging a firearm or explosive in violation of city ordinance
or state law;
         f.   Creating unreasonable noise which disturbs others;
         g.   Intentionally obstructing pedestrian or vehicular traffic; or
         h.   Soliciting acts of prostitution.
      29.   Dangerous Conditions: Any fence, wall, shed, deck, house, garage,
building or structure, or any part of any of the aforesaid; or any tree, pole,
smokestack; or any excavation, hole, pit, basement, cellar, sidewalk, subspace,
dock or loading dock; or any lot, land, yard premises or location which in its
entirety, or in any part thereof, by reason of the condition in which the same
is found or permitted to be or remain, shall or may endanger the health,
safety, life, limb or property, or cause any hurt, harm, inconvenience,
discomfort, damage or injury to any one or more individuals in the city, in any
one or more of the following particulars:
         a.   By reason of being a menace, threat and/or hazard to the general
health and safety of the community;
         b.   By reason of being a fire hazard;
         c.   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, upon,
about or around the aforesaid property;
         d.   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use
of the property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful
to the community in which such property is situated or such condition exists.
      30.   Hazardous Material: The actual or threatened discharge of hazardous
material within the city. "Hazardous material" means a substance or material in
a quantity and form determined by the United States department of
transportation to be capable of posing an unreasonable risk to health and
safety or property.
      31.   Parking On Landscaping: Parking in an area required to be
landscaped by city ordinance.
      32.   Banner Signs: Keeping or allowing banner signs in violation of city
ordinance.
      33.   Required Landscaping: Failure to install or maintain landscaping
required by city ordinances. (1984 Code § 8.20.030; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2-4: EXCEPTIONS:
No act which is done or maintained under the express authority of an
authoritative statute, ordinance or court ruling shall be declared a nuisance.
(1984 Code § 8.20.040)
5-2-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR NUISANCES:
The responsible person is responsible for abating nuisances pursuant to this
chapter. Any person, whether as owner, agent or occupant, who creates, aids in
creating, or contributes to a nuisance, or who supports, continues or retains a
nuisance, is responsible for the nuisance and is, therefor, a "responsible
person" pursuant to this chapter. Such responsible person shall be liable to
the city for any expenses incurred by the city in connection with the abatement
of the nuisance. Every successive owner or tenant of a property or premises who
fails to abate a continuing nuisance upon or in the use of such property or
premises caused by a former owner or tenant is responsible therefor in the same
manner as the one who first created it. (1984 Code § 8.20.050)
5-2-6: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter may be administered and enforced by the administrative code
enforcement hearing program of the city, or by any other means available under
the laws of the city or the state. (1984 Code § 8.20.060)
ARTICLE A. WEED ABATEMENT
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Purpose
5-2A-2: Construction Of Article
5-2A-3: Prohibited Activities
5-2A-4: Position Of Weed Control Inspector Created
5-2A-5: Powers And Duties
5-2A-6: Standards For Weed Control
5-2A-7: Notice To Property Owners
5-2A-8: Appeals
5-2A-9: Remedies
5-2A-10: Violation; Penalty
5-2A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the purpose of this article to establish a means whereby the city
may designate and regulate the abatement of injurious and noxious weeds,
vegetation and grass pursuant to the powers granted by Utah Code Annotated
title 10, chapter 11, as amended, and pursuant to its general power to abate
nuisances.
   B.   It is declared that weeds, vegetation and/or grass constitute a
nuisance when they: 1) create a fire hazard; 2) are a source of contamination
or pollution of water, air or property; 3) pose a danger to health; 4) create a
breeding place or habitation for insects or rodents; or 5) are unsightly or
deleterious to their surroundings. (Ord. 10-2011, 4-26-2011)
5-2A-2: CONSTRUCTION OF ARTICLE:
The procedure and authority granted by this article shall be in addition to and
not in lieu of procedures provided in other ordinances of the city. Nothing in
this article shall be construed to prohibit enforcement through the zoning code
or any applicable nuisance statute, nor shall the imposition of any criminal
sanction inhibit or prevent the imposition of civil remedies provided for
hereunder. If the provisions of this article are in conflict with any other
provisions of this code, the provisions of this article shall govern. (Ord. 10-
2011, 4-26-2011)
5-2A-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or
parcel of land to cause or permit any nuisance, as defined in subsection
5-2A-1B of this article, to be created or to remain upon such premises; and it
shall be the duty of such owner or occupant to abate and remove any such
nuisance from such premises.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of land to fail to
abate, within the required time period, a nuisance, as defined in subsection 5-
2A-1B of this article, after service of notice pursuant to section
5-2A-7 of this article. (Ord. 10-2011, 4-26-2011)
5-2A-4: POSITION OF WEED CONTROL INSPECTOR CREATED:
The position of weed control inspector is created for the purpose of
administering the provisions of this article. The weed control inspector shall
act under the direction of the code enforcement division or the division's
designee. The inspector or inspectors assigned to this position shall comply in
all respects with Utah Code Annotated section 10-11-1 in abating the nuisances
identified in this article. (Ord. 10-2011, 4-26-2011)
5-2A-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The weed control inspector is authorized to enter upon any property or premises
within the city to determine whether or not a nuisance, as defined in
subsection
5-2A-1B of this article, exists and to make any examination as may be
necessary, including the taking of photographs, samples or other physical
evidence. All inspections, entries, examinations and surveys shall be done in a
reasonable manner based upon cause. If the owner or occupant refuses to allow
the inspector to enter the property, the inspector shall obtain an
administrative warrant. (Ord. 10-2011, 4-26-2011)
5-2A-6: STANDARDS FOR WEED CONTROL:
Weeds, vegetation and grass shall be maintained at a height of not more than
nine inches (9") at all times, and the cuttings shall be promptly cleared and
removed from the premises.
   A.   Weeds, vegetation and grass must be eradicated by chemicals, cutting or
other acceptable method so they do not exceed nine inches (9") in height.
   B.   Weeds, vegetation and grass that are rototilled, disked or removed by
the root must be buried under the soil, removed from the property or composted
as allowed by law.
   C.   The inspector may determine that the size of the property makes the
cutting of all weeds, vegetation and grass impractical, and therefor may issue
an order limiting the required removal to not less than twenty five feet (25')
in width around any structures and around the complete perimeter of the
property.
   D.   Real property not in close proximity to buildings or not creating a
serious nuisance or fire hazard, such as agricultural properties, may be
exempted by the inspector from the weed control requirements. (Ord. 10-2011, 4-
26-2011)
5-2A-7: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS:
It shall be the duty of the weed control inspector to make careful examination
and investigation, as may be provided by ordinance, of the growth and spread of
such injurious and noxious weeds; and it shall be the inspector's duty to
ascertain the names of the owners and descriptions of the premises where such
weeds exist, and to serve notice in writing upon the owner or occupant of such
land, either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to the
owner or occupant at the last known post office address as disclosed by the
records of the county assessor. The written notice shall include: a) a
description of the real property, by street address or otherwise, on which the
nuisance exists; b) a description of the nuisance; c) a direction to abate the
nuisance within ten (10) days from the date of service of said notice; d) a
statement that unless such nuisance is removed, the city may abate the nuisance
and the cost of the abatement may be recovered by the city as provided in this
article; and e) a statement that the owner or other person in charge of the
property may protest the abatement by giving notice to the civil violations
hearing examiner within ten (10) days from the date of the notice. One notice
shall be deemed sufficient on any lot or parcel of property for the entire
season of weed growth during that year. The inspector shall make proof of
service of such notice under oath, and file the same in the office of the
county treasurer. (Ord. 10-2011, 4-26-2011)
5-2A-8: APPEALS:
Any person served a notice pursuant to section
5-2A-7 of this article may request a hearing before the city civil violations
hearing examiner by causing written notice thereof to be delivered to the
office of the civil violations hearing examiner within ten (10) days of the
date of mailing or the date of personal service of the weed inspector's notice.
Upon receipt of notice of a request for hearing, the hearing examiner shall: a)
immediately notify the weed inspector; and b) schedule the hearing within five
(5) business days of receiving the notice of a request for hearing. In the
event the hearing examiner upholds the decision of the inspector, the owner or
occupant shall have up to ten (10) days from the notice of the decision within
which to conform thereto. In the event that the decision of the hearing
examiner either overrules or modifies the determination of the inspector, the
written decision shall apprise the inspector of that fact and set forth the
details and extent to which the owner or occupant must make removal or other
abatement of the said objects or conditions, if any. The owner or occupant
shall be required to comply with the decision of hearing examiner within ten
(10) days after personal service or the date of mailing of a copy of said
decision, unless more time is provided for compliance in such decision, and
said decision shall be deemed to be the modified notice of the inspector, which
notice shall become final after expiration of the time given for compliance.
(Ord. 10-2011, 4-26-2011; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2A-9: REMEDIES:
   A.   In the event the owner or occupant fails or neglects to eradicate, or
destroy and remove, the weeds in accordance with the notice or written decision
of the hearing examiner given, the inspector shall:
      1.   At the expense of the municipality, employ necessary assistance and
cause such weeds to be removed or destroyed; and
      2.   Prepare an itemized statement of all expenses, including
administrative expenses, incurred in the removal and destruction of the weeds
and mail a copy of the statement to the owner demanding payment within thirty
(30) days of the date of mailing.
   B.   Said notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by certified mail
addressed to the property owner's last known address.
   C.   If the owner or occupant fails to make payment of the amount set forth
in the statement to the county treasurer within the required thirty (30) days,
the inspector, on behalf of the municipality, may:
      1.   Cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law; or
      2.   Refer the matter to the county treasurer as provided in subsection E
of this section.
   D.   If collection of the costs are pursued through the courts, the
municipality may:
      1.   Sue for and receive judgment upon all of the costs of removal and
destruction, including administrative costs, together with reasonable attorney
fees, interest and court costs; and
      2.   Execute on the judgment in the manner provided by law.
   E.   If the inspector elects to refer the matter to the county treasurer for
inclusion in the tax notice of the property owner, the inspector shall:
      1.   Make, in triplicate, an itemized statement of all expenses,
including administrative expenses, incurred in the removal and destruction of
the weeds; and
      2.   Deliver the three (3) copies of the statement to the county
treasurer within ten (10) days after expiration of the thirty (30) day period
provided in the statement specified in subsection A2 of this section. (Ord. 10-
2011, 4-26-2011)
5-2A-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a class
C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense and shall be punishable as provided herein. (Ord. 10-2011, 4-
26-2011; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Findings
5-3-2: Intent
5-3-3: Definitions
5-3-4: Limitation Of Peak Intensity Of Sound
5-3-5: Measurement Of Noise Intensity; Placement Of Microphone
5-3-6: Noise Limits; Exceeding Constitutes Violation
5-3-7: Exemptions
5-3-8: Violation; Penalty
5-3-1: FINDINGS:
The city council finds after extensive investigation and receiving of
information from the public and from experts in the field, that the creation of
noise within the city is a danger to the general health, safety, welfare and
well being of the citizens. Such noises generally may be classified under one
of three (3) headings hereafter, beginning with the least offensive and
proceeding to those which are the most harmful and offensive:
   A.   Sounds Of Commerce And Industry: In this category are those noises
necessarily made by commercial vehicles in process of transporting persons or
goods, necessary noises of construction or demolition and other sounds
necessarily connected with the carrying on of modern business life. Enforcement
agencies of the city are specifically authorized to work with the producers of
this type of noise to either eliminate, modify and/or muffle such sounds in a
way that will allow progress to continue while minimizing the disturbing
effects of the noise. Creation of such noises, when they reach such a state
that they become harmful or disturbing, are declared to be a public nuisance
and shall be abated. Continued refusal to modify excessive noise is declared to
be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Public Disturbance Noises:
      1.   In this category are those noises which because of their intensity,
the decibel level, the constancy of the noise or proximity to residences,
businesses and generally inhabited areas, create a disturbance to human life
and efficiency. Included in this category and typical thereof, though not
exclusive of others not so listed, would be the following:
         a.   Inadequately or defectively muffled vehicle engines and motors.
         b.   Loud machinery and pneumatic apparatus.
         c.   Amplified music or other amplified sounds.
         d.   Miscellaneous noises, including those of animals, machinery,
gunfire, etc., when their emission creates a public disturbance, either because
of the intensity, or disturbing nature and/or the time of the emission.
      2.   Noises of these categories are determined to be not only a nuisance
which may be abated by the proper authorities in the city, but are unlawful and
each occurrence shall constitute a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Intentionally Caused Noises: In this category are those noises which
are caused for the sake of making noise without regard to the comfort, sleep or
general health and welfare of other persons. Production of such noise is
unlawful and constitutes a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. Typical of this type of noises are the following:
      1.   Improperly muffled vehicle engines, when the same are rapidly
accelerated or decelerated, and especially during such hours that they are
likely to interfere with the sleep or peaceful calm of residential
neighborhoods.
      2.   Sounds that are mechanically, pneumatically or electronically
produced or amplified, when the same are not enclosed within a building or
enclosure which absorbs the sound so as not to disturb the surrounding area.
      3.   Sounds or music created or amplified within a public building or
enclosure with such volume and intensity that the sound produced is actually or
potentially dangerous to hearers within the enclosure. (1984 Code § 8.28.010;
amd. 2015 Code)
5-3-2: INTENT:
It is the intent of the city to incorporate into this chapter those standards
of measurement hereinafter set forth, which will take into account the latest
scientific advances in noise measurement and control while at the same time
preserving the common sense and common law determination of what constitutes a
disturbance or public nuisance. Therefore, sound level measurements, while
universally desirable, shall not be required to demonstrate violation of this
chapter if other evidence or testimony establishes the creation of a
disturbance or public nuisance. (1984 Code § 8.28.020)
5-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the terms defined in this section shall have the
following meanings:
   DAY: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   EMERGENCY WORK: Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity or work required to protect persons or property
from an imminent exposure to danger.
   IMPULSE NOISE: A noise with an "on" cycle of ten percent (10%) or less and a
maximum continuous duration of two (2) seconds. Example: A gunshot.
   INTERMITTENT NOISE: A noise with an "on" cycle of ten percent (10%) or less
and a maximum continuous duration of six (6) minutes. Example: A motor vehicle
passing a fixed location.
   MOTOR VEHICLES: Means and includes, but shall not be limited to,
automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, snowmobiles, recreational vehicles,
minibikes, go-carts, aircraft and motorboats.
   NIGHT: From ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   NOISE: An undesirable or harmful sound.
   NOISE SOURCE: Any instrument or device for amplifying sound, or anything
which produces, reproduces or amplifies sound. This term includes multiple
sources of sound.
   PERSON: A person, firm, association, partnership, joint venture, corporation
or an entity, public or private in nature.
   RESIDENTIAL/AGRICULTURAL ZONES, COMMERCIAL ZONES OR INDUSTRIAL ZONES:
Reference to shall conform to the zone designations set forth in the city
zoning codes. (1984 Code § 8.28.030)
5-3-4: LIMITATION OF PEAK INTENSITY OF SOUND:
In no event shall the peak intensity of sound exceed a sound level in excess of
the following limits, measured in decibels, using, unless otherwise mentioned,
the "A" frequency weighing and the "slow" response characteristic of a sound
level meter conforming in all respects to the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) standard section 1.4-1071, as revised, for type 1 or type 2
instruments. (1984 Code § 8.28.040)
5-3-5: MEASUREMENT OF NOISE INTENSITY; PLACEMENT OF MICROPHONE:
The microphone used to measure the intensity of a noise may be placed at any
point on the property line (if the noise source radiates into private property)
or at any point fifty feet (50') distance from the noise source being measured
and shall be at least five feet (5') from any wall and not less than three feet
(3') above the ground. If it is not possible to measure five feet (5') from a
wall, five (5) dB variance will be allowed. When measurements are made inside
buildings or enclosures, readings may be obtained from any area to which
persons may have access. The following limits refer to the largest reading
obtained, using the procedure set out in this section. (1984 Code § 8.28.050)
5-3-6: NOISE LIMITS; EXCEEDING CONSTITUTES VIOLATION:
Exceeding the following limits shall constitute violation of this chapter:
   A.   Continuous And Intermittent Noises: Continuous and intermittent noises
described in subsection
5-3-1A of this chapter shall not exceed:
 
District                 Day dBA Night dBA
Residential/agricultural 85      55
Commercial               85      65
Industrial               85      65
 
   B.   Continuous Noises: Continuous noises described in subsections
5-3-1B and C of this chapter:
 
District                 Day dBA Night dBA
Residential/agricultural 65      55
Commercial               70      65
Industrial               75      75
 
   C.   Intermittent Noises: Intermittent noises described in subsections
5-3-1B and C of this chapter shall not exceed:
 
District                 Day dBA Night dBA
Residential/agricultural 70      60
Commercial               75      65
Industrial               80      80
 
   D.   Impulse Noises: Impulse noises described in subsections
5-3-1A, B and C of this chapter shall not exceed the following levels, measured
on the "fast" response scale of the sound level meter:
 
District                 Day dBA Night dBA
Residential/agricultural 75      69
Commercial               80      65
Industrial               85      85
 
   E.   Unlawful To Sustain Sound Level: It is unlawful to sustain in any place
of public entertainment, including, but not limited to, sports arenas,
restaurants, bars, cafes, discotheques or dance halls, any sound level measured
with the "slow" response characteristic equal to or in excess of:
   One hundred five (105) dBA at any time (if the sound level exceeds 105 dBA
at any time, a mandatory 10 minute sound break at a level below 85 dBA will be
taken). The restriction contained in this subsection is in addition to any
other applicable limits stated in this section. (1984 Code § 8.28.060; amd.
2015 Code)
5-3-7: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is hereby recognized that certain community noise sources and
activities are beyond the practical control of the city. The following noise
sources and activities are therefore exempted from the provisions of this
chapter:
      1.   City or state roadway construction projects during typical
construction working hours from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. Noise from roadway construction projects between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. may also be exempt from the provisions
of this chapter, as long as a permit is obtained from the city. The permit must
be in writing and shall state the dBA limitation (maximum allowed) and shall be
for one project only. Other reasonable regulations may be imposed by the city
in order to protect the public peace and welfare. The exemption shall be deemed
withdrawn if the dBA limit is not strictly adhered to or any other reasonable
limitation is violated. Any violation shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   Sounds created by emergency activities or emergency vehicles.
      3.   Sounds giving warning of emergencies including fire and burglar
alarms (except continuous vehicle alarms).
      4.   Emergency repairs to buildings or vehicles.
      5.   City sponsored public events and activities occurring as part of the
city annual Round-Up Week celebration and July 4 celebration.
   B.   Sounds created by parades, carnivals, dances, fireworks displays or
other special public social events not specifically mentioned in subsection A
of this section shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter, as long as
a permit is obtained from the city. The permit must be in writing and shall
state the dBA limitation (maximum allowed) and the hours the exemption is in
force and shall be for one event only. Other reasonable regulations may be
imposed by the city council in order to protect the public peace and welfare.
The exemption shall be deemed withdrawn if the dBA limit is not strictly
adhered to or if the event continues outside of prescribed hours or any other
reasonable limitation is violated. Any violation shall be a class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 44-2015, 8-25-2015; amd. 2015 Code)
5-3-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction therefor, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a
separate offense. (1984 Code § 8.28.080; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SMOKING PROHIBITED IN CITY PARKS, RECREATION AREAS, CEMETERIES AND NEAR MASS
GATHERINGS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Prohibitions
5-4-3: Violation; Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
CITY PARKS: A city owned park, public square, ball diamond, soccer field,
recreation area, cemetery or public trail.
MASS GATHERING: An outdoor assembly of one hundred (100) or more people on city
owned property that reasonably can be expected to continue for two (2) or more
hours.
SMOKE OR SMOKING: Means and includes possessing, carrying or holding a lighted
pipe, cigar or cigarette of any kind, e-cigarette, or any other lighted smoking
equipment, or the lighting or emitting or exhaling or smoking of a pipe, cigar,
cigarette of any kind, e-cigarette, or of any other lighted smoking equipment.
(Ord. 32-2015, 5-26-2015)
5-4-2: PROHIBITIONS:
Smoking is hereby prohibited in city parks, rail stations and within fifty feet
(50') of mass gatherings. (Ord. 32-2015, 5-26-2015)
5-4-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter is a class C misdemeanor, punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Police officers shall have discretion to issue a "warning"
if they deem it is in the best interest of the city for the first offense.
(Ord. 32-2015, 5-26-2015; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TOBACCO PRODUCTS; SALE OR DISTRIBUTION TO A PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY ONE
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Minimum Legal Sales Age For Tobacco Products
5-5-4: Age Verification
5-5-5: Enforcement
5-5-6: Penalties
5-5-7: Exceptions And Defenses
5-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to reduce tobacco initiation, particularly among
adolescents 15 - 17, improve health across the lifespan, and decrease smoking
prevalence by keeping tobacco products out of the hands of those under the age
of twenty one (21). (Ord. 15-2019, 2-12-2019)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
DISTRIBUTE OR DISTRIBUTION: Means to furnish, give, provide, or to attempt to
do so, whether gratuitously or for any type of compensation.
DISTRIBUTOR: Means a person who distributes a tobacco product.
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE: Means any device that can be used to deliver
aerosolized or vaporized nicotine to the person inhaling from the device,
including, but not limited to, an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen or e-
hookah. Electronic smoking device includes any component, part, or accessory of
such a device, whether or not sold separately, and includes any substance
intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the use of the device.
Electronic smoking device does not include drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
PERSON: Means any natural person, partnership, joint venture, society, club,
trustee, trust, association, organization, or corporation, or any officer,
agent, employee, factor, or any other personal representative thereof, in any
capacity.
RECIPIENT: Means any person who obtains or attempts to obtain a tobacco
product.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Means any product that is made from or derived from tobacco,
and is intended for human consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether
smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled or ingested by any other
means, including, but not limited to, a cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco,
chewing tobacco, snuff, snus, or an electronic smoking device. The term
includes any component or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco
product, such as filters, rolling papers, pipes, or liquids used in electronic
smoking devices. Tobacco product does not include drugs, devices, or
combination products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act. (Ord. 15-2019, 2-12-2019)
5-5-3: MINIMUM LEGAL SALES AGE FOR TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
The sale or distribution of any tobacco product to a person under the age of
twenty one (21) is prohibited. (Ord. 15-2019, 2-12-2019)
5-5-4: AGE VERIFICATION:
Before distributing any tobacco product, the distributor shall verify that the
recipient is at least twenty one (21) years of age. Each distributor shall
examine the recipient's government- issued photographic identification. A
distributor is not required to verify the age of a person over the age of
thirty (30), but that a recipient appeared to be thirty (30) years of age or
older shall not constitute a defense to a violation of this section. (Ord. 15-
2019, 2-12-2019)
5-5-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The Utah County Health Department or its authorized designee may conduct
random, unannounced inspections at locations where tobacco products are
distributed to test and ensure compliance with this chapter. The compliance
checks can be done two (2) times a year, unless there is reasonable suspicion
that the retailer is selling tobacco to minors. (Ord. 15-2019, 2-12-2019)
5-5-6: PENALTIES:
Violations of this chapter may be subject to both criminal prosecution and
civil penalties.
   A.   The person who sold the product may be cited by law enforcement as
follows:
      1.   First offense - Class C misdemeanor.
      2.   Second offense - Class B misdemeanor.
      3.   Third offense - Class A misdemeanor.
      4.   Subsequent offenses - Class A misdemeanor.
   B.   A civil penalty may be imposed by the local Health Department against
the owner of the store as follows:
      1.   First violation - five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      2.   Second violation (within 12 months) - seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
      3.   Third violation (within 24 months of 2 or more previous violations)
- one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or a tobacco permit suspension for up to
thirty (30) consecutive calendar days.
      4.   Fourth violation (within 24 months of 3 previous violations) -
tobacco permit may be revoked.
   C.   The department or a local Health Department may:
      1.   Revoke a tobacco permit if a fourth violation occurs within two (2)
years of three (3) previous violations;
      2.   In addition to a monetary penalty imposed under subsection B of this
section, suspend the tobacco permit if the violation is due to a sale of
tobacco products to a person under nineteen (19) years of age; and
      3.   If applicable, recommend to a municipality or county that a retail
tobacco specialty business license issued under section 10-8-41.6 or 17-50-333
Utah Code Annotated be suspended or revoked. (Ord. 15-2019, 2-12-2019)
5-5-7: EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES:
   A.   The penalties in this chapter do not apply to a person younger than
twenty one (21) years old who purchases or attempts to purchase tobacco
products while under the direct supervision of Lehi City or the Utah County
Health Department staff for training, education, research, or enforcement
purposes.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter prohibits an underage person from handling
tobacco products in the course of lawful employment.
   C.   It shall be an affirmative defense to a violation of this chapter for a
person to have reasonably relied on proof of age as described by State law.
(Ord. 15-2019, 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 6
HYPERBARIC FACILITIES
Section:
5-6-1: Fire And Building Code Requirements
5-6-2: Requirements For Permit
5-6-3: Permits Renewed Annually
5-6-4: Penalty
5-6-1: FIRE AND BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS:
All hyperbaric facilities within the City shall meet the requirements contained
in Chapter 14 of NFPA 99 , section 609 of the International Fire Code and
section 425 of the International Building Code. (Ord. 49-2024, 8-13-2024)
5-6-2: REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT:
Mild Hyperbaric Chambers (Chamber) may be exempt from
5-6-1 , and may be permitted in the City only if they have obtained a valid
Mild Hyperbaric Therapy Permit, and can meet all of the following:
   A.   The Chamber is a soft-shell chamber.
   B.   An onsite individual is designated as the Hyperbaric Safety
Coordinator.
   C.   Anyone operating the Chamber has completed the minimum training
requirements.
   D.   There is an Emergency Management Plan in place.
   E.   There are safeguards to ensure continuous supervision while the Chamber
is in use.
   F.   Maintain, and have available for Fire Marshall or his designee, records
of all scheduled and unscheduled Maintenance.
   G.   Maintain, and have available for Fire Marshall or his designee's,
records of all uses and duration of each use of Chamber.
   H.   Provide proof of pressure relief valves with normal working pressure
not to exceed 1.4 bar or 20.3 PSI.
   I.   Provide proof the Oxygen concentrations do not exceed twenty three and
a half percent (23.5%) or drop below twenty percent (20%).
   J.   Provide proof of a functioning visual or audible communication method
within the interior of the Chamber.
   K.   The life span of any Chamber shall not exceed fifteen (15) years or
twenty- five thousand (25,000) hours. (Ord. 49-2024, 8-13-2024)
5-6-3: PERMITS RENEWED ANNUALLY:
All permits obtained under this chapter shall be reviewed and renewed annually
by the Fire Marshall or his designee. (Ord. 49-2024, 8-13-2024)
5-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or fails to
comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with any order made
thereunder, shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a class B misdemeanor. (Ord.49-2024, 8-13-2024)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Obstruction Of Officers Or Members Of Fire Department
6-1-2: Streets Yielded To Fire Department; Authority To Use Water
6-1-3: Authority To Blockade Streets
6-1-4: Authority To Remove Poles, Wires And Buildings
6-1-5: Injuring Fire Apparatus
6-1-6: Interfering With Apparatus; False Alarms
6-1-7: Open Burning Prohibited; Exceptions
6-1-8: Rapid Entry Key Box
6-1-9: Penalty
6-1-1: OBSTRUCTION OF OFFICERS OR MEMBERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, hinder or in any manner interfere
with an officer or member of the fire department while in the discharge of his
official duties. (1984 Code § 8.12.010)
6-1-2: STREETS YIELDED TO FIRE DEPARTMENT; AUTHORITY TO USE WATER:
Whenever any alarm of fire is given, all persons occupying the public streets
with vehicles of any description shall yield the right of way to the fire
department, and the movable apparatus of the same, when responding to an alarm
of fire. The fire chief, or other officer in charge, shall have the right to
use water from any source for the purpose of extinguishing fires or for saving
property in danger of being destroyed thereby. (1984 Code § 8.12.020; amd. 2015
Code)
6-1-3: AUTHORITY TO BLOCKADE STREETS:
Whenever a fire occurs it is lawful for the fire chief, or the officer in
command, to blockade any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk or other place if in
his judgment it is necessary to secure the efficient working of the men, hose,
engines, or hook and ladder apparatus under his command, and to protect the
hose of the department from injury. It is unlawful for any person to break
through said blockade. (1984 Code § 8.12.030; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-4: AUTHORITY TO REMOVE POLES, WIRES AND BUILDINGS:
When a fire is in progress, the fire chief, or in his absence, the officer in
charge, may order any telegraph, telephone, electric light wire or poles, in
close proximity thereto, to be torn down or otherwise disposed of, and he may
likewise order any building or buildings, in close proximity thereto, to be
torn down or otherwise disposed of for the purpose of checking the
conflagration; but neither the fire chief, or any other officer or member of
the fire department, shall unnecessarily or recklessly destroy or injure any
building or other property. (1984 Code § 8.12.040; amd. 2015 Code)
6-1-5: INJURING FIRE APPARATUS:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully cut, mark or otherwise deface or
injure any engine house, hose, engine, or other apparatus of the fire
department, or to drive over any fire hose with any vehicle. (1984 Code §
8.12.050)
6-1-6: INTERFERING WITH APPARATUS; FALSE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to break, destroy, or in any manner interfere
with any electrical fire alarm box, fire alarm registry box, or any wire, pole
or apparatus connected therewith, or to break or interfere in any manner with
any apparatus for giving alarms of fire, or to send any false alarms from,
through or over any such box apparatus, or to make any false alarms of fire any
manner whatsoever. (1984 Code § 8.12.060)
6-1-7: OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following words shall
have the following meanings:
BARBECUE PITS: Outdoor pits used for cooking. Barbecue pits shall be
constructed of concrete or approved noncombustible materials, and shall not be
located within ten feet (10') of combustible walls or roofs, or other
combustible material.
INCINERATOR: A structure, or portion thereof, container, device or other
appliance designed, used or intended to be used for the disposal of combustible
rubbish by burning.
OPEN BURNING: The burning of a bonfire, rubbish fire or other fire in an
outdoor location where fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator,
outdoor fireplace, barbecue grill or barbecue pit.
RECREATIONAL FIRE: The burning of materials other than rubbish where the fuel
being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor fireplace, barbecue
grill or barbecue pit and with a total fuel area of three feet (3') or less in
diameter and two feet (2') or less in height for pleasure, religious,
ceremonial, cooking or similar purposes.
RUBBISH: Waste material, including, but not limited to, garbage, wastepaper and
debris from construction or demolition. (Ord. 14-2011, 7-12-2011)
   B.   Permit, Approval Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
kindle or maintain or authorize to be kindled or maintained without a permit
any open burning of any kind unless conducted and approved in accordance with
this section.
   C.   Permitted Burning: Upon obtaining all necessary permits, the following
burnings shall be allowed by this section, except that any allowed open burning
shall not include the burning of "rubbish", as defined in subsection A of this
section, whether contained in an incinerator or not, and all fires shall be
constantly attended until the fire is extinguished:
      1.   Those burnings held on property zoned as "agriculture", as said term
is defined in chapter 5 of the city development code, as amended, and
designated as agricultural on the city zoning map, as amended, and has a
landmass of one acre or more:
         a.   Are incidental to horticultural or agricultural operations:
            (1)   Prunings from trees, bushes and plants; or
            (2)   Dead or diseased trees, bushes and plants, including stubble;
         b.   Controlling weed growth along irrigation ditch banks incidental
to clearing these ditches for irrigation purposes; or
         c.   Heating of orchards or other crops to lessen the chances of their
being frozen so long as the emissions from this heating do not violate minimum
standards established by the federal clean air act, as amended, and the state
air conservation act, as amended.
      2.   Recreational fires, as defined in subsection A of this section, with
the following restrictions:
         a.   Recreational fires shall not be conducted within twenty five feet
(25') of a structure or other combustible material unless contained in a
barbecue pit.
         b.   Charcoal burners, liquified petroleum gas burners and other open
flame cooking devices shall not be operated on combustible balconies or within
ten feet (10') of combustible construction.
   Exceptions: 1) one- and two-family dwellings; 2) where buildings and decks
are protected by an automatic sprinkler system.
         c.   Buckets, shovels, garden hoses or a fire extinguisher with a
minimum 4-A rating shall be readily available for extinguishment.
      3.   Barbecue pits in outdoor locations. Barbecue pits shall be
constructed of concrete or approved noncombustible materials, and shall not be
located within ten feet (10') of combustible walls or roofs or other
combustible material.
      4.   Other outdoor cooking facilities meeting the approval of the fire
chief.
      5.   Other open fires, fireworks, torches or open burnings specifically
allowed for under another portion of this code after obtaining any necessary
permits and/or approval of the fire chief.
      6.   Controlled burning of not more than two (2) structures per year
under the direct control of the fire department for the purpose of training
fire service personnel when the United States weather service clearing index is
above five hundred (500).
   D.   Commercial Cooking Operations: Open burning for commercial cooking
operations shall be prohibited, except for licensed and approved businesses.
   E.   Smoke, Emissions: Any open burning that will be offensive or
objectionable due to smoke or odor emissions shall be prohibited. (Ord. 08-26-
08.36, 8-26-2008)
   F.   Extinguishment Of Hazardous Situations; Cost Recovery: The fire chief
is authorized to order the immediate extinguishment of any fire or burning
which creates or adds to a hazardous or objectionable situation, or is
otherwise in violation of this section.
      1.   The chief of the fire department or the chief's designee has the
power to call in special equipment and/or services whenever it becomes
necessary to do so to extinguish, contain or to clean up after a fire.
      2.   Whenever special equipment and/or services are used to extinguish,
contain or to clean up after a fire, persons who have by their acts or
omissions necessitated the expenditure of time, money and resources by the fire
department where such equipment and/or services are used shall be liable to the
city for the recovery of actual costs of labor, material and equipment.
      3.   The fire chief is authorized to adopt written rules and regulations
that are consistent with the provisions of this section, including those
related to the billing and collection of actual costs. (Ord. 14-2011, 7-12-
2011)
6-1-8: RAPID ENTRY KEY BOX:
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   Lehi City uses the knox box brand of lockbox, security padlocks,
gate switches and fire department connection/standpipe caps and plugs to allow
entry to structures for fire and/or life safety purposes.
      2.   The following structures shall be equipped with a knox box brand
lockbox with the eLock core, knox connection caps and/or knox plugs prior to
issuance of the certificate of occupancy:
         a.   Any commercial or industrial structure protected by an automatic
suppression system (sprinkler or standpipe);
         b.   Any commercial or industrial structure protected by an automatic
fire alarm system having a connection to a central monitoring station facility;
         c.   Any commercial or industrial structure that has a type 1 hood
used for cooking purposes.
         d.   Any multi-family residential structure that possesses a common
corridor for access to living units that also restricts building access by
locking building entryway doors and/or has a common utility room for sprinkler
or fire alarm appliances.
         e.   Any facility that is required to prepare and have readily
available material safety data sheets and/or hazardous chemical inventory as
per federal and state codes.
         f.   Other properties or structures where fire department access would
be delayed as determined by the Lehi City fire marshal.
      3.   All commercial buildings under construction must provide a temporary
knox box for emergency access before construction begins.
      4.   Any commercial or industrial structure with an external audible fire
alarm and/or complex with perimeter fencing which limits emergency vehicle
access is required to provide a lockbox, gate switch or knox padlock.
      5.   The fire chief shall be authorized to implement rules and
regulations for the use of the knox box system.
   B.   Installation; Accountability:
      1.   Application for a knox box shall be obtained from the fire marshal.
      2.   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a knox box is
responsible for installation of the knox box.
      3.   The knox box shall be installed at a location as approved by the
fire marshal.
      4.   The size of the knox box that is required to be installed will be
determined by the number of keys or units that the box will support at the
property location as approved by the fire marshal.
      5.   More than one knox box may be required to be installed as per the
building size or complexity as per the fire marshal.
      6.   A knox box tamper switch connected to the building's fire alarm
system may be required.
   C.   Contents Of Lock Box:
      1.   The contents of the knox box shall include the following:
         a.   Grand master and/or keyless entry key/keys to locked points of
ingress or egress, whether on the interior or exterior of such buildings. One
grand master and or keyless entry key/keys per floor is/are required, up to
five (5) floors.
         b.   Keys to all mechanical rooms.
         c.   Keys to all locked electrical rooms.
         d.   Keys to elevators and their control rooms.
         e.   Keys to fire alarm panels.
         f.   Keys to reset pull stations or other fire protective devices.
         g.   Keys to any other areas as requested by the fire marshal.
         h.   A card containing the names and telephone numbers of emergency
contact people for such buildings or any code numbers associated with their
fire protection systems. These contact persons must be available on a twenty
four (24) hour basis.
   D.   Maintenance:
      1.   The operator of the building shall immediately notify the Lehi City
fire department and provide the new keys when a lock is changed or rekeyed. The
key to such lock shall be secured in the knox box by fire department personnel.
      2.   The operator of the building shall be responsible for the knox box
to be in proper working condition and to replace or make repairs as may be
necessary.
   E.   Temporary Key Lock Box During Times Of Construction:
      1.   Before any work is started on any building or property complex that
would require the installation of a rapid entry knox box or knox padlock, it
shall be the responsibility of its owner or operator to apply for a knox box or
knox padlock.
      2.   The temporary knox box must be mounted and keys installed prior to
securing the site or building in a location approved by the fire marshal.
   F.   Penalties For Violation Of Ordinance: Any violation of this section by
any owner or operator is hereby declared to be a class C misdemeanor. Each day
that such violation shall continue after notification shall be considered a
separate violation. (Ord. 37-2015, 7-28-2015; amd. Ord. 37-2021, 9-14-2021)
6-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or fails to
comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with any order made
thereunder, or who builds in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
fails to comply with an order as affirmed or modified by the city council or by
a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall
severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. (1984 Code §
8.36.010; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Public Displays
6-2-2: Prohibition On Discharge
6-2-3: Penalty
6-2-4: Aerial Luminaries Prohibited
6-2-1: PUBLIC DISPLAYS:
   A.   Permit Required: The City, notwithstanding any of the provisions of
this chapter to the contrary, may, upon application in writing, upon the
posting of a suitable bond, grant a permit for the public display of fireworks
by religious, fraternal or civic organizations, fair associations, amusement
parks, or other organizations or groups of individuals approved by the City,
and the City Council is authorized by resolution to grant such permission when
such display is to be handled by an operator certified by the State Fire
Marshal, to be approved by the Chiefs of Police and Fire Departments of the
City. Such display shall be of such a character, and so located, discharged or
fired, as in the opinion of the Chiefs of the Police and Fire Departments,
after proper inspection, shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any
person or persons. After such permit shall have been granted, sales,
possession, use and distribution of fireworks for such display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. (1984 Code § 8.08.020; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Application For Permit; Nontransferable: All applications for permits
shall set forth the date, the hour and place of making such display; and the
place for storing fireworks prior to the display; and further, the name or
names of person, persons, firm, partnership, corporation, association or group
of individuals making the display; and the name of the person or persons in
charge of the igniting, firing, setting off, exploding or causing to be
exploded such fireworks. The location of the storage place shall be subject to
the approval of the Chief of the Fire Department. No permit granted hereunder
shall be transferable. (1984 Code § 8.08.030)
   C.   Bond Required: The City may require a bond deemed adequate by the City
from the licensee in a sum as adopted from time to time by the City Council in
the City consolidated fee schedule, conditioned for the payment of all damages,
which may be caused either to a person or persons, or to property, by reason of
the display so as aforesaid licensed, and arising from any acts of the
licensee, his agents or employees. Such bond shall run to the City and shall be
for the use and benefit of any person injured or the owner of any property
damaged, who is authorized to maintain an action thereon, or his heirs,
executors, administrators, successors or assigns. (1984 Code § 8.08.040; amd.
2015 Code)
6-2-2: PROHIBITION ON DISCHARGE:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Ignite, explode, project or otherwise fire or use, or permit the
ignition, explosion or projection of any fireworks upon or over or onto the
street or public property or the property of another;
   B.   Ignite, explode or otherwise make use of any fireworks within one
hundred feet (100') of any fireworks stand;
   C.   Ignite, explode, project or otherwise fire or make use of any fireworks
within twenty feet (20') of any residence, dwelling or other structure; (1984
Code § 8.08.100)
   D.   Ignite or discharge any fireworks within or throw the same from a motor
vehicle within, nor shall any person place or throw any ignited article of
fireworks into or at such a motor vehicle, or at or near any person or group of
people;
   E.   Discharge any type of homemade fireworks;
   F.   Discharge or possess any type of fireworks not permitted by this
chapter. (1984 Code § 8.08.100; amd. 2015 Code)
6-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1984 Code § 8.08.110; amd. 2015 Code)
6-2-4: AERIAL LUMINARIES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "aerial luminary" means a device,
commonly constructed of paper or similar material with a bamboo or similar
material frame, using an attached heat source to become and remain airborne by
the use of heated air until the heat source is exhausted, whereon the device
descends to the ground. Common names for aerial luminaries include Chinese Sky
Lantern, Hawaii Sky Lantern, Sky Lantern, Kongming Lantern, Flying Lanterns,
Floating Lanterns, Sky Candles, and Wish Candles. This definition shall not
include a hot air balloon capable of transporting humans, model rockets, or
devices designed to loft scientific or other payloads, such as a weather
balloon or similar devices.
   B.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, sell, barter,
exchange, trade, offer for sale, distribute, give away, possess, ignite,
discharge, light, fly, release into the atmosphere, otherwise use, or bring
into the City any aerial luminary. (Ord. 16-2017, 4-25-2017)
CHAPTER 3
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CLEANUP
SECTION:
6-3-1: Regulations; Recovery Of Costs
6-3-1: REGULATIONS; RECOVERY OF COSTS:
   A.   Hazardous Material Defined: For purposes of this section, "hazardous
material" means any material that, because of its quantity, concentration or
physical or chemical characteristics, poses a significant present or potential
hazard to human health and safety or to the environment if released into the
workplace or the environment.
   B.   Authority; Persons Liable: The city is authorized, but not required, to
clean up or abate the effects of any hazardous material released, discharged or
deposited upon or into any property or facilities within the city. The
following described persons shall be jointly and severally liable to the city
for the payment of all costs incurred by the city as a result of such cleanup
or abatement activity:
      1.   The person or persons whose negligent or wilful act or omission
proximately caused such release, discharge or deposit;
      2.   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
hazardous substance or waste at the time of such release, discharge or deposit,
without regard to fault or proximate cause;
      3.   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
container which held such hazardous waste or substance at the time or
immediately prior to such release, discharge or deposit, without regard to
fault or proximate cause; and
      4.   The person or persons who owned or controlled the land on which the
hazardous material was deposited or from which the hazardous material was
released or discharged.
   C.   Supervision Of Abatement: In the event that any person undertakes,
either voluntarily or upon order of a city official, to clean up or abate the
effects of any hazardous substance or waste released, discharged or deposited
upon or into any property or facilities within the city, the city may take such
action as is necessary to supervise or verify the adequacy of the cleanup or
abatement. The persons described in subsection B of this section shall be
liable to the city for all costs incurred as a result of such supervision or
verification.
   D.   Included Costs: For purposes of this section, costs incurred by the
city shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to, the following:
      1.   The actual labor costs of city personnel, including benefits and
administrative overhead for:
         a.   Traffic control, extrication and vehicle stabilization which may
be required to allow fire personnel to access, stabilize and mitigate a
hazardous material scene prior to the actual cleanup of the hazardous material;
and
         b.   The cleanup or abatement of the hazardous material;
      2.   The costs of equipment operation used in the cleanup or abatement of
the hazardous material; and
      3.   The cost of any contract labor and materials used in the cleanup or
abatement of the hazardous material.
   E.   Fire Suppression Not Included: The authority to recover costs under
this section shall not include actual fire suppression services which are
normally or usually provided by the fire department.
   F.   Remedies Additional: The remedies provided by this section shall be in
addition to any other remedies provided by law. (Ord. 07-2013, 2-26-2013)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-4A-1: Definitions
6-4A-2: General Care And Maintenance Of Animals
6-4A-3: Cruelty To Animals
6-4A-4: Animals Running At Large
6-4A-5: Animals To Be Impounded
6-4A-6: Nuisance Animals
6-4A-7: Unlawful To Harbor Stray Animals
6-4A-8: Allowable Number Of Dogs And Cats
6-4A-9: Loss Of Privilege To Maintain Animal In City
6-4A-10: Vicious Animals
6-4A-11: Sanitation
6-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words shall have the following meanings:
ANIMAL: Any nonhuman living creature, whether wild or domesticated.
ANIMAL AT LARGE: Any domesticated animal, whether or not licensed, not under
restraint.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ACO): Any individual vested with authority by the
constituted officers of Lehi City to perform all duties pertaining to animal
control in the city; assistant animal control officers are authorized to act
under the direction of the animal control officer; and the animal control
officer shall act under the direction of the chief of police.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility operated by a humane society or government agency,
or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals
held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT: Any animal under the control of its owner or custodian,
except, a dog shall not be considered under control of the owner or custodian
unless on a leash or lead, confined within a vehicle, or within the real
property limits of the owner or custodian.
AUCTION: Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter.
Individual sales of animals by their owners shall not be considered auctions
unless done in conjunction with two (2) or more owners.
BITE: An actual puncture, tear or abrasion of the skin inflicted by the teeth
of an animal.
CAT: Any age feline of the domesticated types.
CIRCUS: A commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction, riding
school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal exhibition or
kennel.
CUSTODIAN: A person having the charge, care, custody or control of an animal
that he does not own.
DISTRICT: The North Utah Valley animal services special service district. The
purpose of the district is to provide animal shelter services for the city and
to other jurisdictions in northern Utah County.
DOG: Any canis familiaris of the domesticated types.
DOMESTICATED ANIMALS: Animals domesticated by man so as to live and breed in a
tame condition, including, but not limited to, cats, dogs, fowl, horses,
cattle, swine, sheep and goats.
GROOMING SHOP: A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked or otherwise groomed.
GUARD DOGS OR SENTRY DOGS: A dog used specifically to guard people or property.
HUMANE SOCIETY: Any organization for the prevention of cruelty to animals
incorporated under the laws of the state of Utah.
KENNEL: A location where a business or person engages in boarding, breeding,
buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling dogs.
LEASH OR LEAD: Any chain, rope or device used to restrain an animal.
PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITION: Any spectacle display, act or event, other than a
circus, in which performing animals are used.
PET: An animal kept for pleasure rather than utility, including, but not
limited to, birds, cats, dogs, ferrets, fish, hamsters, mice and other animals
associated with man's environment.
PET SHOP: Any person, partnership or corporation, whether operated separately
or in connection with another business enterprise, that buys, sells or boards
any species of animal; with the exception of a licensed kennel.
QUARANTINE: The isolation of an animal in a substantial enclosure so that the
animal is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized persons.
RESTRAINT: Securing any animal by way of a leash or lead, rope or chain.
RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE: Any place which has available for hire, boarding and/
or riding instruction, any horse, pony, donkey, mule or burro.
STRAY: Any domesticated animal at large.
VETERINARY HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal that is dangerously aggressive or has a propensity
to attack or cause injury to any other animal or human being.
WILD ANIMAL: Any of the following, regardless of how domesticated they may be:
   A.   Alligators and crocodiles.
   B.   Bears (Ursidae).
   C.   Cats (Felidae), except the commonly accepted domesticated cats.
   D.   Coyotes, foxes and wolves, including hybrid wolves.
   E.   Porcupines (Erethizontidae).
   F.   Primates (Hominidae).
   G.   Raccoons (Procyonidae).
   H.   Skunks.
   I.   Venomous snakes or lizards.
   J.   Venomous fish and piranhas.
   K.   Weasels (Mustelidae), except the commonly accepted domesticated
ferrets.
   L.   Deer, elk, moose and antelope.
ZOOLOGICAL PARK: Any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, that displays
or exhibits one or more species of nondomesticated animals, operated by a
person, partnership, corporation or government agency. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-
2009)
6-4A-2: GENERAL CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF ANIMALS:
It shall be the duty of any person to provide any animal in his charge or
custody, as owner or otherwise, with adequate food, water, care and shelter.
(Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4A-3: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Except as authorized by law, it shall be unlawful for any person to
wilfully or maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, torture, beat, mutilate, burn or
scald, overdrive or otherwise cruelly set upon any animal. Each such act shall
constitute a separate violation.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hobble livestock or other
animals in such a way as to cause injury or damage to the animal.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or confine any animal in
or upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner, including, but not limited
to, carrying or confining such animal without adequate ventilation or for an
unusual length of time.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of an animal to abandon
such animal within the city.
   E.   When it becomes necessary to destroy any domestic animal because of
age, sickness or other cause which renders the destruction of the animal
necessary or desirable, it shall be the responsibility of the owner of such
animal to humanely dispose of the animal.
   F.   Except as provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person by any
means to make accessible to any animal, with intent to cause harm or death, any
substance which has in any manner been treated or prepared with any harmful or
poisonous substance. This provision shall not be interpreted so as to prohibit
the use of poisonous substances for the control of vermin in furtherance of the
public health when applied in such a manner as to reasonably prohibit access to
other animals.
   G.   Every operator of a motor vehicle or self-propelled vehicle within the
city shall, immediately upon injuring, striking, maiming or running down any
animal, notify the police department, furnishing requested facts relative to
such injury. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4A-4: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any domesticated animal to be at large at any time
within the corporate limits of the city. The owner or custodian of any
domesticated animal which is at large shall be strictly liable for a violation
of this section, regardless of the precautions taken to prevent the escape of
the animal and regardless of lack of knowledge of the offense at the time it
occurs. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4A-5: ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED:
The police department shall place all animals which they take into custody in
the district animal shelter or a designated animal impound facility. The
following animals may be taken into custody by the investigating officer and
impounded without the filing of a complaint:
   A.   Any vicious animal not properly confined as required by this chapter.
   B.   Any animal running at large.
   C.   Any animal which is required by this chapter to be licensed and is not
licensed. Any animal not wearing a tag shall be presumed to be unlicensed for
purposes of this section, except those dogs specifically exempted.
   D.   Sick or injured animals whose owner cannot be located.
   E.   Any abandoned animal.
   F.   Animals which are not wearing a rabies vaccination tag in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   G.   Any animal to be held for quarantine.
   H.   Any animal being kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4A-6: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   Described: Any animal which does any of the following shall be deemed a
nuisance animal:
      1.   Is running at large.
      2.   Causes damages to the property of anyone other than its owner or
custodian.
      3.   Causes unreasonable fouling of the air by odors. (Ord. 03-24-09.4,
3-24-2009)
      4.   Defecates on any public street, sidewalk, park or building, or on
any private property without the consent of the owner of the property, unless
the owner or custodian of the animal shall immediately clean up any defecation
and properly dispose of it. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
      5.   Barks, whines or howls, or makes other disturbing noises in an
excessive, continuous or untimely fashion.
      6.   Attacks or molests a human being or other animals.
      7.   Chases passersby or passing vehicles.
      8.   Trespasses on school grounds.
      9.   Is determined by the police department or Utah County health
department to be a public nuisance by virtue of being offensive or dangerous to
the public health, welfare or safety.
      10.   Any animals which, by virtue of the number maintained, are
determined by the police department to be offensive or dangerous to the public
health, welfare or safety.
   B.   Nuisance Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to have any
animal determined to be a nuisance within the city.
   C.   Complaint; Investigation: Whenever a complaint is made to the city that
an animal constitutes a nuisance, as defined in subsection A of this section,
the police department shall conduct an investigation of the alleged nuisance.
If they find reasonable cause to believe that a nuisance exists, they shall
notify the owner or custodian of the offending animal that the nuisance must be
abated within two (2) days. The investigating officer shall specify the method
of abatement. If the owner or custodian fails to abate the nuisance in a timely
fashion, or if the investigating officer determines that a nuisance animal
constitutes an immediate threat to the public health, safety or welfare, he may
impound the animal pending a judicial determination of the status of the animal
as a nuisance. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4A-7: UNLAWFUL TO HARBOR STRAY ANIMALS:
   A.   Whenever any animal shall be found which appears to be lost or strayed,
it shall be the duty of the finder to notify the police department within
twenty four (24) hours. This notice shall include an accurate description of
the animal and accurate information regarding the location of the harbored
animal.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an animal welfare society
incorporated under the laws of the state, to harbor or keep any lost or strayed
animal unless that person shall immediately notify the police department as
required in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4A-8: ALLOWABLE NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no more than three (3) dogs, four
(4) months of age or older, and three (3) cats, four (4) months of age or
older, shall be kept at any residential lot or commercial establishment at any
time. This provision shall not apply to licensed kennels, veterinary clinics,
pet stores, or grooming parlors. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009; amd. Ord. 62-
2023, 11-14-2023)
6-4A-9: LOSS OF PRIVILEGE TO MAINTAIN ANIMAL IN CITY:
If the owner or custodian of any animal is convicted of violations of this
chapter on three (3) or more different occasions during any twelve (12) month
period, the city may issue an order denying the right of the owner or custodian
to maintain an animal in the city for a period of one year. Prior to final
denial of such privilege, written notice shall be sent to the owner or
custodian's last known address, informing the owner or custodian of the city's
intent to deny his privilege of maintaining an animal in the city. The owner or
custodian may seek a hearing before the hearing examiner to be informed of the
alleged violations against him which have resulted in the loss of his privilege
and shall be given an opportunity to refute the applicability of this section
to his situation. If the police chief finds that grounds exist to deny the
owner or custodian's privilege to maintain an animal within the city, he may
order the owner or custodian to either remove his animal from the city or, in
the event the owner or custodian fails to remove the animal from the city, to
have the animal impounded. Any animal impounded under this section shall be
dealt with in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for impounded
animals, except that the person from whom the animal was taken shall not be
allowed to redeem the animal under any circumstances. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-
2009; amd. 2015 Code)
6-4A-10: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Unlawful; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person to have any
animal determined to be vicious within the city except for guard dogs.
   B.   Complaint; Investigation: Whenever a complaint is made to the city that
an animal is vicious, the police department shall conduct an investigation of
the alleged incident. If the investigating officer finds reasonable cause to
believe the animal involved is vicious, he may, pending a judicial
determination of the animal's vicious nature, require the owner or custodian to
either show sufficient ability to secure the animal so that it cannot come into
contact with other persons or animals, or remove the animal from the city. The
investigating officer may instead, in his discretion, impound the animal
pending a judicial determination of the animal's vicious nature.
   C.   Guard Dogs: Guard dogs shall be kept in such a manner so that they
cannot come into contact with other persons or animals that are legally upon
the premises where a guard dog is maintained. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4A-11: SANITATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow an animal owned by or in
the control of that person to defecate or urinate upon private property not
owned or in control of that person.
   B.   When any animal defecates on any street, sidewalk or other public
place, or on any private property without the consent of the owner thereof, it
shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of the animal to fail to clean up
the defecation and properly dispose of it. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
ARTICLE B. ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS
SECTION:
6-4B-1: Animal Control Services
6-4B-2: Powers Of Animal Control Officers
6-4B-3: Interference With Officers Prohibited
6-4B-1: ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICES:
The police department shall be responsible for providing animal control
services. The district shall be responsible for providing animal shelter
services. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4B-2: POWERS OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS:
   A.   The police department shall be vested with the power and authority to
enforce this chapter.
   B.   Each law enforcement officer and animal control officer is hereby
authorized and empowered to apprehend and impound any animal found in violation
of this chapter, and to issue citations to persons in violation of this
chapter.
   C.   In the enforcement of this chapter, any law enforcement officer and
animal control officer is authorized to enter onto the open premises of any
person to take possession of any animal in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 03-
24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4B-3: INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person by use of force, threat of force or
use of any weapon to knowingly and intentionally interfere with any law
enforcement officer or animal control officer in the lawful discharge of his
duties as herein prescribed.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or obstruct the law
enforcement officer or animal control officer while engaging in capturing,
securing or taking to the animal shelter any animals or animal to be impounded,
or who shall break open or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or
advise the breaking open of any animal shelter, vehicle, or city owned or
controlled trap used by the city for the collecting or conveying of any animals
or animal to the animal shelter. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
ARTICLE C. DOGS
SECTION:
6-4C-1: Dog Licensing
6-4C-2: Female Dogs In Heat
6-4C-3: Guard And Sentry Dogs
6-4C-4: Kennel Permit
6-4C-5: Places Prohibited To Dogs
6-4C-6: Dogs Attacking Persons And Animals
6-4C-1: DOG LICENSING:
   A.   Every person owning, keeping or harboring any dog shall be required to
obtain a dog license within seven (7) days of the date of ownership, unless a
dog is less than four (4) months of age. A license shall be required for a dog
which is over four (4) months within the corporate limits of the city. The
owner shall pay for the use of the city, an annual license fee as established
in the city consolidated fee schedule. A receipt showing proof of operation
shall be required to qualify as a neutered/spayed dog.
   B.   A duplicate license may be obtained upon payment of a replacement fee
as established in the city fee schedule.
   C.   Not more than three (3) dog licenses shall be issued to one residential
lot to each detached single family lot, and to each attached multi-family unit.
   D.   The license fee shall not be required for seeing eye or governmental
police dogs.
   E.   Upon receipt of the dog license tag, the owner shall attach the tag to
a collar or harness for the animal and see that the collar and the tag are
constantly worn. Failure to attach the tag to the dog as provided in this
subsection shall constitute a violation of this article.
   F.   Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another.
   G.   No person shall remove, or cause to be removed, the collar, harness or
tag from any licensed dog without the consent of the owner or custodian of the
dog, except a licensed veterinarian, law enforcement officer or animal control
officer who removes such for medical or other reasons. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-
2009; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 62-2023, 11-14-2023)
6-4C-2: FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT:
Any owner or custodian of any female dog in heat shall, in addition to
restraining such dog from running at large, cause such dog to be constantly
confined in a building or secure enclosure so as to prevent it from coming into
contact with other dogs and creating a nuisance, except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4C-3: GUARD AND SENTRY DOGS:
   A.   All owners or trainers shall, in addition to the other requirements of
this chapter, comply with the standards set forth in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
   B.   Whenever any dog is used as, or is being trained to be, a guard or
sentry dog, the following requirements shall apply: (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-
2009; amd. 2015 Code)
      1.   Register the dog as such on the license form.
      2.   A dog in training must be confined at all times in its kennel, run
or training area, unless it is under leash control of its handler. A perimeter
fence at least six feet (6') high must be installed to encircle the training
and kennel area. This fence must also have anticlimbers added. Fences must be
maintained escapeproof.
      3.   Runs must have at least six foot (6') high fences completely
surrounding them to which are to be added anticlimbers, or the top must be
completely covered. All gates and entrances to the runs, kennel and training
area must be kept locked when not in use.
      4.   When the training period for any guard or sentry dog is completed
and it is actually being used as a guard or sentry dog, the above specified
requirements shall continue. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4C-4: KENNEL PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall own or operate a kennel for which a
kennel permit has not been issued.
   B.   Application: An application for a kennel permit must be completed and
submitted to police department. Once an application is received by the police
department, an inspection of the kennel for compliance with the requirements
will be conducted. Upon approval of the inspection and application, a kennel
permit will be issued.
   C.   Term Of Permit: Kennel permits are good for one year from the date of
issue.
   D.   Random Inspections; Records Maintained: Kennels with permits are
subject to random unannounced inspections throughout the duration of the kennel
permit. Any person operating a kennel shall permit police department staff and/
or their assignees access to all parts of the establishment. Any operator of a
kennel shall keep available for inspection upon request by the police
department:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of each animal
kept at the kennel;
      2.   Dog license and rabies vaccination records of every dog kept at the
kennel.
   E.   Full Access Required; Deficiencies Corrected: When the supervising
animal control officer arrives to inspect the facility, the owner and/or
manager must give the officer full access to all areas where animals are kept.
All animals must be shown to the officer, who may examine any animals that
appear to be in poor health and may also require a veterinarian to so inspect.
Owners, managers, caretakers or others who interfere with the officer's duties
are in violation of the kennel permit requirements and the permit holder or
applicant is therefor subject to denial or revocation of the permit. If the
officer observes that the facility is not in full compliance with the kennel
permit requirements, he or she will explain and document the deficiencies and
will give the owner a deadline for correcting these deficiencies. The officer
will return to reinspect the facility and if the deficiencies have not been
corrected during the given time frame, the officer may revoke or deny the
kennel permit.
   F.   Revocation, Fines, Fees, Penalties: Kennels that are not in compliance
with the city kennel permit requirements are subject to permit revocation and
any applicable fines, fees and penalties.
   G.   Conditional Use Permit Required: All kennel permit applications will
only be approved upon receipt of proof and confirmation that the applicant has
obtained a conditional use permit for a kennel from the planning and zoning
department.
   H.   Inoculation, Licensing Requirements Applicable: Animals maintained
under a kennel permit are not exempt from proof of inoculation against rabies
and/or dog licensing requirements.
   I.   Applicability Of Other Laws: Animals maintained under a kennel permit
are subject to all laws, ordinances, regulations and statutes that govern the
ownership of animals.
   J.   Reasons For Denial Or Revocation: A kennel permit may be denied or
revoked by the police department for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Failure to comply with any provision of the kennel permit
requirements;
      2.   Conviction of the owner, or of any person subject to his or her
direction or control, for a violation of any local, state or federal law, rule,
order or regulation pertaining to any activity relating to the humane treatment
of animals;
      3.   Evidence that the owner, or any person subject to his or her
direction or control, has received an animal control violation within the past
twelve (12) months. Animal control violations include, but are not limited to,
dog licensing (section
6-4C-1 of this article), nuisance animals (section
6-4A-6 of this chapter), dogs attacking persons and animals (section
6-4C-6 of this article), animals running at large (section
6-4A-4 of this chapter), and rabies vaccination required (section
6-4D-2 of this chapter);
      4.   Furnishing false information on the application for a kennel permit.
   K.   Disposal Of Animals Upon Revocation: The operator of any kennel whose
permit is denied or revoked shall dispose of all animals in the kennel within
ten (10) days after the denial or revocation, or surrender the animals to the
police department or North Utah Valley Animal Shelter. Disposal shall be by
sale, transfer to a licensed kennel, or humane disposal.
   L.   Kennel Standards: Every kennel with a permit shall conform to the
following standards:
      1.   Housing:
         a.   The kennel structure and floor shall be sound and maintained in
good repair to protect animals from injury, to safely confine the animals kept
therein, to prevent entry of other animals, and to allow each animal to stand,
sit, lie, and turn about freely and comfortably.
         b.   Proper and healthy temperatures shall be maintained at all times
for animals in the kennel.
         c.   Outdoor facilities shall provide protected shading and adequate
shelter against cold, wind, precipitation and inclement weather.
         d.   Outdoor housing facilities shall maintain adequate ventilation to
provide a fresh air supply and to minimize drafts, odors and moisture
condensation.
         e.   Indoor housing facilities for animals must be sufficiently
ventilated at all times when animals are present to provide for their health
and well being, and to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels and moisture
condensation. Ventilation must be provided by windows, vents, fans or air
conditioning. Auxiliary ventilation, such as fans, blowers or air conditioning
must be provided when the ambient temperature is eighty five degrees Fahrenheit
(85°F) or higher.
         f.   Animal areas must provide a regular diurnal lighting cycle of
either natural or artificial light. Lighting must provide sufficient
illumination to aid in maintaining good housekeeping practices, adequate
cleaning, adequate inspection of animals, and for the well being of the
animals.
         g.   The surfaces of housing facilities, including houses, dens, etc.,
must be constructed in a manner and made of materials that allow them to be
readily cleaned and sanitized, must be maintained and cleaned on a regular
basis, and must be removed or replaced when worn or soiled.
         h.   Hard surfaces with which the dogs or cats come in contact must be
cleaned daily and sanitized to prevent accumulation of excreta and reduce
disease hazards.
         i.   The floors and walls of indoor housing facilities, and any other
surfaces in contact with the animals, must be impervious to moisture.
         j.   Metal barrels, cars, refrigerators or freezers, and the like,
must not be used as shelter structures.
         k.   The floors of outdoor housing facilities may be of compacted
earth, sand, gravel or similar approved material, and must be replaced if there
are any prevalent odors, diseases, insects, ectoparasites, pests or vermin.
         l.   Outdoor facilities for animals must include one or more shelter
structures for each animal in each outdoor enclosure, and that are large enough
to allow each animal in the enclosure to sit, stand and lie in a normal manner,
and to turn about freely.
         m.   All animals housed in the same primary enclosure must be
compatible, as determined by observation.
         n.   No more than six (6) adult animals may be housed in the same
primary enclosure.
         o.   Females in heat may not be housed in the same primary enclosure
with sexually mature males, except for breeding.
         p.   Females with litters may not be housed in the same primary
enclosure with other adult animals.
         q.   Animals under four (4) months of age may not be housed in the
same primary enclosure with adult animals, other than the dam.
         r.   Animals with a vicious or aggressive disposition must not be
housed with any other animals.
         s.   In all primary enclosures for cats and kittens, a receptacle
containing a sufficient amount of clean litter must be provided to contain
excreta and body wastes.
         t.   The following categories of dogs or cats must not be kept in
outdoor facilities, unless that practice is specifically approved and
documented by a licensed veterinarian:
            (1)   Dogs or cats that are not acclimated to the temperatures
prevalent in the area or region where they are maintained;
            (2)   Breeds of dogs or cats that cannot tolerate the prevalent
temperatures of the area without stress or discomfort (such as shorthaired
breeds in cold climates);
            (3)   Sick, infirm, aged or young dogs or cats.
         u.   Animals may not be housed in the same primary enclosure with any
other species of animals.
         v.   Animals that have or are suspected of having a contagious disease
must be isolated from healthy animals.
         w.   The height of the primary enclosure must allow the tallest animal
in the enclosure to stand on hind legs without touching the roof.
      2.   Food:
         a.   Storage of food and bedding materials shall be designed to
prevent:
            (1)   Infestation by vermin;
            (2)   Build up of moisture;
            (3)   Contact with water;
            (4)   Contamination;
            (5)   Spoilage.
         b.   Food and bedding materials must be stored off the floor and away
from the walls, to allow cleaning underneath and around them.
         c.   All open supplies of food and bedding must be kept in leakproof
containers with tightly fitting lids to prevent contamination and spoilage.
         d.   Only food and bedding that is currently being used may be kept in
the animal areas.
         e.   Foods requiring refrigeration must be stored accordingly, and all
food must be stored in a manner that prevents contamination and deterioration
of its nutritional value.
         f.   Animals must be fed at least once each day unless otherwise
recommended and documented by a licensed veterinarian. The food must be
uncontaminated, wholesome, palatable and of sufficient quantity and nutritive
value to maintain the normal condition and weight of the animal. The diet must
be appropriate for the individual animal's age and condition.
      3.   Water:
         a.   The kennel shall have an adequate and potable water supply for
all animals.
         b.   Clean water shall be continuously available, unless otherwise
recommended and documented by a licensed veterinarian.
      4.   Disposal/Sanitation:
         a.   Disposal facilities, in addition to being operated so as to
minimize vermin infestation, odors and disease hazards, shall comply with
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to pollution
control and the protection of the environment. Included is the removal and
disposal of animal and food waste, bedding, dead animals, trash and debris.
         b.   Animal waste shall be removed at least once daily and more often
if necessary.
         c.   Cleanup agents, disinfectants and water shall be available to
animal caretakers and handlers.
         d.   Drainage facilities shall be available to assure rapid
elimination of excess water from indoor housing facilities. The design shall
assure obstruction free flow and traps to prevent sewage backflow.
         e.   Cages, rooms, hard surface pens and runs shall be sanitized at
least once weekly to prevent disease. Animals shall be removed from the
enclosure during the cleaning process and adequate care shall be taken to
protect the animals in other enclosures. Before any animal new to the facility
is introduced to empty enclosures that were previously occupied, such
enclosures shall be sanitized.
         f.   Floors made of dirt, sand, gravel or other similar approved
material must be raked and cleaned daily and with sufficient frequency to
ensure all animals the freedom to avoid contact with excreta. Contaminated
material must be replaced whenever this raking and cleaning is not sufficient
to prevent or eliminate odors, insects, disease, pests, ectoparasites and/or
vermin infestation.
      5.   Disease Control:
         a.   All animals that are sick, diseased, quarantined or under
treatment for communicable diseases shall be isolated in such a place that
healthy animals are not exposed.
         b.   An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites,
avian and mammalian pests, and disease transmission shall be established and
maintained.
      6.   Storage:
         a.   Housing facilities and areas used for storing animal food or
bedding must be free of any accumulation of trash, waste material, junk, weeds
and other discarded materials.
         b.   Substances that are toxic to the dogs or cats but are required
for normal husbandry practices must not be stored in food storage and
preparation areas, or in animal enclosures.
         c.   Trash containers in housing facilities and in food storage and
food preparation areas must be leakproof and must have tightly fitted lids on
them at all times. Dead animals, animal parts and animal waste must not be kept
in food storage or food preparation areas, food freezers, food refrigerators or
animal areas.
      7.   Other: Any and all other standards for keeping animals in the city
are specified in this chapter and the development code, chapter 5 and chapter
12. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
6-4C-5: PLACES PROHIBITED TO DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take or permit any dog, whether loose or
on a leash or in arms, in or about any establishment or place of business where
food or food products are sold or displayed, including, but not limited to,
restaurants, grocery stores, convenience stores, meat markets, and fruit or
vegetable stores. This section shall not apply, however, to seeing eye dogs,
hearing dogs or dogs owned by government agencies. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4C-6: DOGS ATTACKING PERSONS AND ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any dog to attack, chase or worry any person,
domestic animal having a commercial value, pet, any species of hoofed protected
wildlife, or any domestic fowl. "Worry", as used in this section, shall mean to
harass by excessive barking, growling, tearing, biting or shaking with the
teeth. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   The owner or custodian of any dog in violation of subsection A of this
section shall be strictly liable for violation of this section. In addition to
being subject to prosecution under subsection A of this section, the owner or
custodian of such dog shall also be liable in damages to any person injured or
to the owner of any animal injured or destroyed thereby.
   C.   Any person may kill a dog while it is committing any of the acts
specified in subsection A of this section; provided, however, that such persons
do so in a safe manner without endangering people, other animals or property.
   D.   The provisions of this section do not apply to dogs used for law
enforcement purposes by the police department or other public law enforcement
agencies. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
ARTICLE D. RABIES CONTROL
SECTION:
6-4D-1: Duty To Report Bites
6-4D-2: Rabies Vaccination Required
6-4D-3: Quarantine And Disposition Of Biting Or Rabid Animals
6-4D-1: DUTY TO REPORT BITES:
   A.   The owner of an animal that bites a person and any person bitten by an
animal shall report the bite to the police department or the county health
department within twenty four (24) hours of the bite, regardless of whether or
not the biting animal is of a species subject to rabies.
   B.   Any person having knowledge of any individual or animal having been
bitten by an animal of a species subject to rabies shall report the incident
immediately to the police department or to the county health department.
   C.   A physician or other medical personnel who renders professional
treatment to a person bitten by an animal shall report to the police department
within twenty four (24) hours of his first professional attendance the fact
that he has rendered professional treatment to a bite victim. He shall report
the name, sex and address of the person bitten as well as the type and location
of the bite. If known, he shall give the name and address of the owner of the
animal that inflicted the bite and other facts that may assist the
investigating officer in ascertaining the immunization status of the animal.
   D.   Any person treating an animal bitten, injured or mauled by another
animal shall report the incident to the police department. The report shall
contain the name and address of the owner of the wounded, injured or bitten
animal, the name and address of the owner and description of the animal which
caused the injury, and the location of the incident.
   E.   Any person having knowledge of the whereabouts of an animal known to
have been exposed to or suspected of having rabies, or of an animal or person
bitten by such a suspect animal, shall notify the police department, the county
health department or the state division of health. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4D-2: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner or custodian of a dog or cat four (4) months of age or over
shall have the animal vaccinated within thirty (30) days after it reaches this
age. Unvaccinated dogs or cats over four (4) months of age which are acquired
by the owner or brought into the city shall be vaccinated within thirty (30)
days of acquisition or of being moved into the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, keep, harbor or
possess, or to have in his or her care, charge or custody, any dog or cat four
(4) months of age or over unless such dog or cat has a current and valid rabies
vaccination administered by any duly qualified and licensed veterinarian, with
a rabies vaccine approved by the state department of health for use in dogs and
cats. Such vaccination shall be repeated at intervals specified by the state
department of health in order to maintain adequate immunity.
   C.   This provision shall not apply to veterinarians or kennel operators
temporarily maintaining on their premises animals owned by others, provided
said animals are not kept for more than thirty (30) days.
   D.   The provisions of this section with respect to vaccination shall not
apply to any animal remaining within the city for less than thirty (30) days.
Such animals shall be kept under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be
unlawful to bring any animal into the city which does not comply with all
applicable animal health laws and import regulations.
   E.   It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, when vaccinating any animal
for rabies, to complete a certificate of rabies vaccination (in duplicate)
which includes the following information:
      1.   Owner's name and address.
      2.   Description of animal (breed, sex, markings, age, name).
      3.   Date of vaccination.
      4.   Rabies vaccination tag number.
      5.   Type of rabies vaccine administered.
      6.   Manufacturer's serial number of vaccine.
   F.   A copy of the certificate shall be distributed to the owner and the
original retained by the issuing veterinarian. The veterinarian and the owner
shall retain their copies of the certificate for the interval between
vaccinations specified in this section. Additionally, a metal or durable
plastic rabies vaccination tag, serially numbered, shall be securely attached
to the collar or harness of the animal. An animal not wearing such tag shall be
deemed to be unvaccinated and may be impounded and dealt with pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4D-3: QUARANTINE AND DISPOSITION OF BITING OR RABID ANIMALS:
   A.   An animal that has rabies or shows signs of having rabies and every
animal bitten by another animal affected with rabies or that has been exposed
to rabies shall be reported by the owner or custodian of such animal as set
forth above and shall immediately be confined in a secure place by the owner or
custodian.
   B.   The owner of any animal of a species subject to rabies which has bitten
another animal or person shall immediately surrender the animal to an
authorized official upon demand. Any person authorized to enforce the
provisions of this article may enter upon private property to seize the animal.
If the owner refuses to surrender the animal, the officer shall immediately
obtain a search warrant authorizing seizure and impoundment of the animal.
   C.   Any animal of a species subject to rabies that bites a person or animal
or is suspected of having rabies may be seized and quarantined for observation
for a period of not less than ten (10) days by any law enforcement officer or
animal control officer. The owner of the animal shall bear the cost of
confinement. The animal shelter shall be the normal place for quarantine, but
other arrangements, including confinement by the owner, may be made by the
police department if the animal had a current rabies vaccination at the time
the bite was inflicted or if there are other special circumstances justifying
an exception. A person who has custody of an animal under quarantine shall
immediately notify the police department if the animal shows any signs of
sickness or abnormal behavior, or if the animal escapes confinement. It shall
be unlawful for any person who has custody of a quarantined animal to refuse to
allow an officer to make an inspection or examination during the period of
quarantine. If the animal dies within ten (10) days from the date of the bite,
the person having custody shall immediately notify the police department or
immediately remove and deliver the head to the state health laboratory to be
examined for rabies. If, at the end of the ten (10) day quarantine period, the
police department examines the animal and finds no sign of rabies, the animal
may be released to the owner; or, in the case of a stray, it shall be disposed
of as provided in this chapter.
   D.   In the case of an unvaccinated animal of a species subject to rabies
which is known to have been bitten by a known rabid animal, the bitten or
exposed animal shall be immediately destroyed, unless the owner of the animal
complies with the following subsection. If the owner is unwilling to destroy
the bitten or exposed animal, the animal shall be immediately isolated and
quarantined for six (6) months under veterinary supervision, the cost of such
confinement to be paid in advance by the owner. The animal shall be destroyed
if the owner does not comply herewith.
   E.   In the case of a rabies vaccinated animal which is known to have been
bitten by a known rabid animal, the bitten or exposed animal shall be
revaccinated within twenty four (24) hours and quarantined for a period of
thirty (30) days following revaccination. If the animal is not revaccinated
within twenty four (24) hours, the animal shall be isolated and quarantined
under veterinary supervision for six (6) months. The animal shall be destroyed
if the owner does not comply with this subsection.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any quarantined animal
from the place of quarantine without written permission from the police
department. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
ARTICLE E. MISCELLANEOUS ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4E-1: Dead Animals
6-4E-2: Driving Animals On Streets
6-4E-3: Animal Fights
6-4E-4: Manure Accumulations
6-4E-5: Wild Animals
6-4E-6: Performing Animal Exhibitions
6-4E-7: Trespassing Of Fowl
6-4E-1: DEAD ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for the owner of any animal or fowl that shall die or be killed
within the limits of the city, to fail to remove or bury the carcass of such
animal as soon as it is reasonably practical after its death; provided, that no
horse, cow, ox or other large animal shall be buried within the closely
inhabited portions of this city unless allowed under state law. It shall also
be unlawful to dispose of the carcass or offal of any animal in violation of
state law or city ordinance. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4E-2: DRIVING ANIMALS ON STREETS:
Every person who drives any herd or band of horses, cattle, sheep or other
animals of one hundred (100) or more, over or upon any public streets of this
city, except by permission and according to the direction of the police
department, is in violation of this section. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4E-3: ANIMAL FIGHTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner whatever encourage
or urge dogs or any other animals or fowl to fight or to urge them after they
commence to fight.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to raise, keep or use any animal
for the purpose of fighting or baiting, or for any person to knowingly permit
the use of his buildings, shed, rooms, yard, grounds or premises for such
purposes.
   C.   Law enforcement officers and animal control officers may enter any
building or place where there is an exhibition of fighting or baiting of a live
animal, or where preparations for such an exhibition are being made, and may
arrest persons present there and take possession of all animals engaged in
fighting or kept for fighting or baiting, and may impound all paraphernalia
used in connection therewith. This subsection shall not be interpreted to
authorize a search or arrest without a warrant when such is required by law.
(Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4E-4: MANURE ACCUMULATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person having charge of any stable, stall, shed,
apartment, coop or yard in which animals or fowl shall be kept, or in any place
within the limits of the city in which manure or liquid discharges of any
animal or fowl shall accumulate or collect, to permit such stable, stall,
apartment, coop or yard to be kept in any unclean or unsanitary condition.
(Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4E-5: WILD ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, barter,
give away, keep or purchase any wild animal, except that the city animal
shelter, a zoological park, veterinary hospital, humane society shelter, public
laboratory, circus, sideshow, amusement show, or facility for education or
scientific purposes may keep such an animal if protective devices adequate to
prevent it from escaping or injuring the public are provided. Persons raising
members of the Mustelidae species as a business for pelts, however, shall not
be prohibited from doing so by this section.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep an animal of a species
prohibited or protected by any regulation or law of Utah County, the state or
the United States. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4E-6: PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS:
   A.   No performing animal exhibition or circus shall be permitted in which
animals are induced or encouraged to perform through the use of chemical,
mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which will cause, or is
likely to cause, physical injury or suffering. Rodeos are excluded.
   B.   All equipment used on a performing animal shall fit properly and be in
good working condition. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
6-4E-7: TRESPASSING OF FOWL:
It is unlawful for any owner of any domestic fowl, such as turkeys, ducks,
geese, peacocks or chickens, to permit such fowl to trespass upon the premises
of another within the city. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009)
ARTICLE F. VIOLATION; PENALTY
SECTION:
6-4F-1: Violation; Penalty
6-4F-1: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class
B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The city may also order the animal associated with a
violation of this chapter either destroyed or removed from the city. Each day a
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such. (Ord. 03-24-09.4, 3-24-2009; amd. 2015
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Right Of Way For Civic, Military Or Funeral Processions
6-5-2: Delivering Property To Successor In Office
6-5-3: Consumption Or Possession Of Alcoholic Beverage In Parks And Public
Places
6-5-4: Loitering
6-5-5: Destruction Or Removal Of Material From City Dump
6-5-6: Curfew For Public Parks And Recreation Areas
6-5-7: Firearms And Weapons
6-5-1: RIGHT OF WAY FOR CIVIC, MILITARY OR FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
When any street within this city is crowded with automobiles or other vehicles,
through which any civic, military or funeral procession is passing, every
person having charge of any automobile or other vehicle, shall obey any order
for the removal of such vehicle, given by the mayor or police officer, and any
person failing or refusing to obey such order is guilty of a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 9.12.010; amd. 2015 Code)
6-5-2: DELIVERING PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR IN OFFICE:
If any person, having been an appointed or elected official of this city, shall
not within five (5) days after notification and request deliver to his
successor in office, all property, papers and effects of every description in
his possession belonging to the city or appertaining to the office he held, he
shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 9.12.020; amd. 2015 Code)
6-5-3: CONSUMPTION OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE IN PARKS AND PUBLIC
PLACES:
It is unlawful for any person to consume, possess or have in any city park or
upon any public property, any alcoholic beverage. (1984 Code § 9.20.040; amd.
2015 Code)
6-5-4: LOITERING:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to loiter, either on foot, or
in or on any vehicle, upon any business or commercial property within the city,
without having some lawful business therein, or thereabouts, if a person,
knowing his entry or presence on the property is unlawful, enters or remains on
the property as to which notice against entering is given by:
      1.   Personal communication to the actor by the owner, a law enforcement
officer or someone with apparent authority to act for the owner; or
      2.   Fencing or enclosure obviously designed to exclude intruders; or
      3.   Posting of signs likely to come to the attention of the intruder.
   B.   Penalty: Violation of this section is an infraction, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 9.24.020; amd. 2015 Code)
6-5-5: DESTRUCTION OR REMOVAL OF MATERIAL FROM CITY DUMP:
It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or destroy any garbage, refuse,
debris or any other article upon the city dumping grounds, or to steal, take or
carry away any such garbage, refuse or debris or any other article from the
city dumping grounds. (1984 Code § 9.28.050; amd. 2015 Code)
6-5-6: CURFEW FOR PUBLIC PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS:
It is unlawful for any person to be in any public park or recreation area
within the city between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. unless, upon good cause shown, written permission is
granted in advance by the city. (1984 Code § 9.28.060; amd. 2015 Code)
6-5-7: FIREARMS AND WEAPONS:
   A.   Discharging Firearms: It is unlawful for any person to fire, discharge
or set off any bow of any kind, gun, pistol or firearm of any description, or
instrument loaded with powder or other explosive within this city except by
written permission of the mayor. (1984 Code § 9.36.010)
   B.   Discharging Flippers, Slings, Spring Operated Or Air Guns Or Bow: It is
unlawful for any person to discharge any flipper, sling, air or spring operated
gun, within the limits of this city. (1984 Code § 9.36.020)
   C.   Shooting Galleries: It is unlawful for any person to own, operate or
conduct any shooting gallery within the limits of the city unless the target
thereof be protected by a suitable breastwork or battery to the acceptance of
the city, subject to the Lehi City development code. (1984 Code § 9.36.030)
(Ord. 2015 Code; amd. Ord. 12-2016, 1-26-2016; Ord. 05-2021)
CHAPTER 6
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Purpose
6-6-2: Definitions
6-6-3: Permit Required; Application; Fee; Regulations
6-6-4: Duties Of Alarm Users
6-6-5: Response By Police, Fire Departments
6-6-6: Nonemergency Activation
6-6-7: Excessive False Alarms; Service Fees
6-6-8: Appeals, Hearings
6-6-9: Penalty
6-6-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish criteria governing the
installation, use and maintenance of alarm systems within the city in order to
reduce or eliminate the false alarms that consume public safety resources.
Nothing in this chapter is intended to discourage proper use of alarm systems.
   B.   This chapter governs systems that summon public safety agency response,
requires permitting, establishes fees and provides for penalties for
violations. (Ord. 02-24-09.2, 2-24-2009)
6-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ALARM SITE: A single fixed commercial or private premises or location served by
an alarm system. Each tenancy, if served by a separate alarm system in a multi-
tenant building or complex, shall be considered a separate alarm site.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any mechanical, electrical or electronic device designed to
detect an unauthorized entry or emergency situation on real property which
emits sound off the premises or transmits an electronic signal off the
premises.
ALARM SYSTEM MONITORING BUSINESS: Any person or entity that intercepts signals
indicating the activation of an alarm system and relays this information to the
police or fire department.
ALARM USER: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity who uses
or is in control of an alarm site. In the case of a rental property, the renter
is considered the alarm user.
ALARM USER PERMIT: An annual permit issued by Lehi City authorizing the
operation of an alarm system within the city.
CANCELLATION: The process by which an alarm system monitoring business verifies
that a false dispatch has occurred and that there is not an existing situation
at the alarm site requiring public safety response.
CONTACT PERSON: The person designated by the alarm user who has the ability and
the authority to allow access to the alarm site and the alarm system.
DURESS/HOLD UP ALARM: An alarm system designed to be activated by a person to
indicate an immediate life threatening situation is present.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of any alarm system resulting in notification of
the police or fire department, for which the responding public safety officer
finds no evidence of criminal activity, fire, smoke, carbon monoxide, heat or
other threat of emergency of the kind for which the alarm system was designed
to give notice.
HEARING OFFICER: A person designated by the city administrator to act as an
impartial adjudicator at hearings related to the enforcement of this chapter.
INTRUSION/BURGLAR ALARM: An alarm system designed to detect a breach of the
exterior of or unauthorized movement in an alarm site.
MONITORED ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system that results in sending a signal to an
alarm system monitoring business.
PERMIT HOLDER: Any alarm user who has received an annual alarm user permit
under this chapter.
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER: Sworn members of the Lehi City police department or Lehi
City fire department.
VERIFY: An attempt by the alarm system monitoring business to contact the alarm
site by telephone before requesting public safety dispatch, in order to avoid
an unnecessary alarm dispatch. (Ord. 02-24-09.2, 2-24-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
6-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No alarm user shall operate, or cause to be operated,
an alarm system without a valid alarm user permit for the alarm site issued by
the police or fire department.
   B.   Nonliability; Response: Possession of an alarm user permit is not
intended to, nor will it, create a contract, duty or obligation, either
expressed or implied, of response by a public safety officer. Any and all
liability and consequential damage resulting from the failure to respond is
hereby disclaimed and governmental immunity as provided by law is retained.
Without limitation of the foregoing, by applying for an alarm user permit, the
alarm user acknowledges that public safety response may be based on factors
such as availability of public safety units, priority of calls, weather
conditions, traffic conditions, emergency conditions or staffing levels. (Ord.
02-24-09.2, 2-24-2009)
   C.   Fee: A fee as established in the city consolidated fee schedule shall
be charged for the issuance and each annual renewal of each alarm user permit.
      1.   No refund of a permit or permit renewal fee will be made.
      2.   The city administrator may waive the alarm user permit fee for low
income individuals. In making such determination, the city administrator shall
require the applicant to furnish appropriate documentation establishing
eligibility for the waiver, including, a card issued by the state for food
stamps, either the annual letter of statement of benefits or monthly benefit
card for supplemental security income, a card issued by the state for the
temporary assistance for needy families program, or a medicaid health benefit
card. The aforementioned documentation shall be maintained on file by the city.
(Ord. 02-24-09.2, 2-24-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   Nontransferable Permit: A permit cannot be transferred to another
person or alarm site.
   E.   Separate Permit: A separate alarm user permit is required for each
alarm site.
   F.   Application; Time For Applying: The initial annual alarm user permit
application form and permit fee must be submitted to the police department or
fire marshal's office within thirty (30) days after installation of the alarm
system. In lieu of a documented date of installation, the first recorded
activation of the alarm system shall be considered the installation date. An
alarm user who operates an alarm system without an alarm user permit shall be
subject to the penalty provisions in section
6-6-9 of this chapter.
   G.   Information Required: Each alarm user permit application must include
the following information:
      1.   The name, address, home, work and cellular telephone numbers and e-
mail address, if available, of the person in control of the alarm site.
      2.   The street address of the alarm site.
      3.   Classification of the alarm site as either residential or
commercial.
      4.   Classification of the alarm site as either owner occupied or leased.
If leased, identification of the owner of the alarm site, including name,
address and phone number. If the alarm site is an apartment, the application
shall also include the name and telephone number of the apartment manager.
      5.   Any business name used for the alarm site.
      6.   The type of alarm system or systems and the purpose for which they
are designed (i.e., intrusion, hold up, fire, or any category identified by the
police and/or fire department).
      7.   The names and telephone numbers of two (2) contact persons who, if
notified, at any time will come to the alarm site within thirty (30) minutes
after receiving a request from a member of the police or fire department. These
persons shall grant access to the alarm site and deactivate the alarm system if
necessary.
      8.   Name and alarm business permit license number of the alarm system
monitoring business, if applicable.
      9.   For the initial application following installation of a new alarm
system, name and alarm business permit number of the company that installed the
alarm system, if not installed by the homeowner.
   H.   Change In Permit Information: Whenever any information on the alarm
user permit application changes, the permit holder shall notify the proper
authority within thirty (30) days of such change.
   I.   False Statements: Any false statement of a material fact made by an
applicant for the purpose of obtaining an alarm user permit or failure to
provide required information shall be subject to the penalties in section
6-6-9 of this chapter.
   J.   Confidential Information: To the extent allowed by law, the city shall
treat all information on such application as proprietary and confidential
information; provided, however, nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use
of such information for legitimate public safety purposes and for enforcement
of this chapter.
   K.   Political Subdivision Facilities: The city shall assign an alarm permit
for each alarm site in a federal, state, county, public school and other
political subdivision facility for tracking purposes and to allow the city to
cooperate with these agencies to address any recurring false alarm problems.
Neither permit fees, service fees nor fines shall be required of such agencies.
(Ord. 02-24-09.2, 2-24-2009)
6-6-4: DUTIES OF ALARM USERS:
An alarm user, whether at a business or residence, shall be responsible for:
   A.   Complying with all permit and other requirements specified in other
sections of this chapter, as well as other applicable city ordinances and state
and federal laws;
   B.   Instructing all persons who are authorized to place the device or
system into operation in the appropriate method of operation, advising them of
the provisions of this chapter, and emphasizing the importance of avoiding
false alarms. The absence of instruction does not provide a defense to any
person or entity;
   C.   Maintaining the alarm site and the alarm system in a manner that will
reasonably eliminate false alarms, including conducting yearly testing and
maintenance as per NFPA 72 for fire alarm systems;
   D.   Responding or causing a representative to respond within thirty (30)
minutes when requested by city officials to provide access to an alarm site
where an alarm signal is being emitted, to deactivate a malfunctioning alarm
system or to provide alternative security for the alarm site;
   E.   Providing that no person shall manually activate an alarm for any
reason other than the emergency that the alarm system is intended to report
other than testing;
   F.   Notifying the alarm system monitoring business prior to activation of
an alarm for maintenance, test or instruction purposes;
   G.   Adjusting the mechanism or causing the mechanism to be adjusted so that
an intrusion alarm signal audible on the exterior of an alarm site will sound
for no longer than fifteen (15) minutes after being activated, but may be
reactivated by a reset. Alarm systems installed prior to five (5) days after
the effective date hereof shall be exempt from this provision. (Ord. 02-24-
09.2, 2-24-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
6-6-5: RESPONSE BY POLICE, FIRE DEPARTMENTS:
The police and fire departments shall respond to alarm notifications according
to department protocol. (Ord. 02-24-09.2, 2-24-2009)
6-6-6: NONEMERGENCY ACTIVATION:
No person shall intentionally activate an alarm system for any purpose other
than an emergency or threat of emergency of the kind for which the alarm system
was designed to give notice. Activation of an alarm system for maintenance,
testing and instruction purposes is exempted from this provision; provided,
that the alarm user notifies the alarm system monitoring business of the test
immediately prior to testing. (Ord. 02-24-09.2, 2-24-2009)
6-6-7: EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS; SERVICE FEES:
   A.   First Three Not Assessed Fee: A permitted alarm user will not be
assessed a service fee for the first three (3) false alarm responses within a
permit year, except as provided in subsection E of this section.
   B.   Service Fee: An alarm user shall pay a service fee as established in
the city consolidated fee schedule.
   C.   Single Technical Malfunction: If multiple alarms are caused by a single
technical malfunction in a single alarm system for a period up to seventy two
(72) hours, the alarm user shall be assessed a service fee for no more than one
false alarm per day (24 hour period) up to seventy two (72) hours. After
seventy two (72) hours, the alarm user shall be assessed a service fee for each
additional false alarm activation.
   D.   Inspections: For fire, smoke, carbon monoxide or heat false alarms in
excess of two (2) false alarms in a permit year, commercial alarm users shall
be referred to the fire marshal's office for inspection pursuant to the
international fire code, as amended.
   E.   Cancellation Prior To Officers Arriving: If cancellation from the alarm
system monitoring business occurs prior to public safety officers arriving at
the alarm site, this is not a false alarm for the purpose of service fees and
no service fees will be assessed; however, no cancellation shall be permitted
for calls that are dispatched priority one.
   F.   Ten False Alarms: After ten (10) false alarms in a permit year, because
the alarm user has not taken the necessary steps to address the cause of the
false alarms, the alarm user will be assessed a fine as established in the city
consolidated fee schedule for each additional false alarm in excess of ten
(10).
   G.   Notice Of Fees, Fines; Time Limit To Pay: The alarm user shall be given
written notice of any fees and fines chargeable under this section. Such fees
and fines shall be paid to the city within thirty (30) calendar days of the
date of the notice of fees and fines due, unless the alarm user requests a
hearing pursuant to section
6-6-8 of this chapter, in which event the payment of the fees shall be
suspended pending the decision of the hearing officer. (Ord. 02-24-09.2, 2-24-
2009; amd. 2015 Code)
6-6-8: APPEALS, HEARINGS:
   A.   Time Limit For Filing Appeal: Any person or entity that receives a
notice of a false alarm or a notice of fees or fines due under this chapter may
appeal by filing a notice of appeal with the city. The notice of appeal must be
received by the city within thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice by the
person or entity.
   B.   Denial; Notice: If the city denies the appeal, the city shall send
written notice of the denial and a statement of the right to appeal to a
hearing officer. (Ord. 02-24-09.2, 2-24-2009)
   C.   Further Appeal: The decision of the city may be appealed to an
administrative hearing officer. A filing fee as established in the city
consolidated fee schedule shall accompany the notice of appeal. The filing fee
shall be refunded if the hearing officer finds in favor of the appellant. The
failure of an appellant to appear at the appeal hearing shall extinguish the
appeal. The hearing officer shall issue a written decision within thirty (30)
days of the hearing. (Ord. 02-24-09.2, 2-24-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
6-6-9: PENALTY:
Any person or entity charged with conducting any activity addressed by this
chapter without a permit or any person who fails to pay assessed fees or fines
within the prescribed time following the finalization of any requested appeals
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 02-24-09.2, 2-24-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 7
AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION
SECTION:
6-7-1: Purpose
6-7-2: Definitions
6-7-3: Construction
6-7-4: Prohibited Activities
6-7-5: Penalty
6-7-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to protect citizens from the fear and intimidation
accompanying certain kinds of solicitation, and not to limit a constitutionally
protected activity. (Ord. 21-2013, 4-9-2013)
6-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
AGGRESSIVE MANNER: Any of the following:
   A.   Approaching or speaking to a person, or following a person before,
during or after soliciting, asking or begging, if that conduct is intended or
is likely to cause a reasonable person to: 1) fear bodily harm to oneself or to
another, or damage to or loss of property; or 2) otherwise be intimidated into
giving money or other thing of value;
   B.   Intentionally touching or causing physical contact with another person
or an occupied vehicle without that person's consent in the course of
soliciting, asking or begging;
   C.   Intentionally blocking or interfering with the safe or free passage of
a pedestrian or vehicle by any means, including unreasonably causing a
pedestrian or vehicle operator to take evasive action to avoid physical
contact;
   D.   Using violent or threatening gestures toward a person solicited either
before, during or after soliciting, asking or begging;
   E.   Persisting in closely following or approaching a person, after the
person solicited has been solicited and informed the solicitor by words or
conduct that such person does not want to be solicited or does not want to give
money or any other thing of value to the solicitor; or
   F.   Using profane, offensive or abusive language which is inherently likely
to provoke an immediate violent reaction, either before, during or after
solicitation.
AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE: A device, linked to a financial institution's account
records, which is able to carry out transactions, including, but not limited
to, account transfers, deposits, cash withdrawals, balance inquiries and/or
mortgage and loan payments.
AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE FACILITY: The area comprised of one or more automatic
teller machines, and any adjacent space which is made available to banking
customers after regular business hours.
BANK: Any business establishment authorized to perform one or more of the
following services: receive and safeguard money and other valuables; lend money
at an interest; execute bills of exchange, such as checks and drafts; purchase
and exchange foreign currency; and issue notes of circulation or currency.
CHECK CASHING BUSINESS: Any person duly licensed by the superintendent of banks
to engage in the business of cashing checks, drafts or money orders for
consideration pursuant to the provisions of the banking laws.
PUBLIC AREA: An area to which the public or a substantial group of persons has
access, and includes, but is not limited to, alleys, bridges, buildings,
driveways, parking lots, parks, playgrounds, plazas, transportation facilities,
schools, places of amusement, sidewalks, median, streets and rights of way open
to the general public, and the doorways and entrances to buildings and
dwellings, and the grounds enclosing them.
SOLICIT, ASK OR BEG: To request, by the spoken, written or printed word, or by
other means of communication, an immediate donation or transfer of money or
another thing of value from another person, regardless of the solicitor's
purpose or intended use of the money or other thing of value, and regardless of
whether consideration is offered. (Ord. 21-2013, 4-9-2013)
6-7-3: CONSTRUCTION:
The procedure and authority granted by this chapter shall be in addition to and
not in lieu of procedures provided in other ordinances of the city. If the
provisions of this chapter are in conflict with any other provisions of this
code, the provisions of this chapter shall govern. (Ord. 21-2013, 4-9-2013)
6-7-4: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit money or other things of value,
or to solicit the sale of goods or services:
   A.   In an aggressive manner in a public area.
   B.   In any public transportation vehicle or passenger terminal for such
vehicles.
   C.   Within thirty feet (30') of any entrance or exit of any bank or check
cashing business, or within thirty feet (30') of any automated teller machine
during the hours of operation of such bank, automated teller machine or check
cashing business, without the consent of the owner or other person legally in
possession of such facilities.
      1.   When an automated teller machine is located within an automated
teller machine facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or
exit of the automated teller machine facility.
   D.   On private property if the owner, tenant or lawful occupant has asked
the person not to solicit on the property, or has posted a sign clearly
indicating that solicitations are not welcome on the property.
   E.   By standing on or going into any street or highway, including medians,
on ramps and exit ramps.
   F.   From any person sitting in a parked motor vehicle, except when the
solicitor does not approach any vehicle and except when the person sitting in
the motor vehicle indicates consent to be approached.
   G.   From any person under the age of sixteen (16) years who is
unaccompanied by an adult. (Ord. 21-2013, 4-9-2013)
6-7-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class
B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 21-2013, 4-9-2013; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 8
TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING
SECTION:
6-8-1: Purpose
6-8-2: Definitions
6-8-3: Prohibition
6-8-4: Penalty For Violation
6-8-1: PURPOSE:
The protection of the home is of the highest importance. The public health and
welfare and the good order of the community require that citizens enjoy in
their homes and neighborhoods a feeling of well-being, tranquility, and
privacy, and enjoy freedom from being a captive audience to unwanted speech in
their homes. The practice of targeted residential picketing causes emotional
disturbance and distress to residents, and has the potential to incite breaches
of the peace and disrupt the well-being and tranquility of the home. Full
opportunity exists for individuals to exercise their rights of free speech
without resorting to targeted residential picketing. The provisions of this
section are enacted for the purpose of protecting the significant public
interests stated above and not to suppress free speech rights of any particular
viewpoint. This section is intended to establish a reasonable time, place, and
manner restriction that reconciles and protects the First Amendment rights of
picketers to peacefully communicate and express their ideas with the right of
persons to enjoy the right to tranquility, well-being and privacy in their
residential dwellings. (Ord. 64-2020, 12-10-2020)
6-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below:
 
                                Means (1) the stationing or posting of one or
                                more persons to apprise the public, vocally or
                                by standing or marching with signs, banners,
PICKETING:                      sound amplification devices, or other means, of
                                an opinion or a message; or (2) the presence or
                                gathering of a person or a group of people for
                                a demonstration or protest.
                                Means any single-family, duplex, or multifamily
                                dwelling where the targeted occupant resides
RESIDENCE:                      and is not used as a targeted occupant's sole
                                place of business or as a place of public
                                meeting.
                                Means picketing that: (1) Is specifically
                                directed or focused toward a particular
TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING: residence, or one or more occupants of a
                                particular residence; and (2) Takes place
                                within one hundred feet of the property line of
                                that residence. (Ord. 64-2020, 12-10-2020)
 
6-8-3: PROHIBITION:
It is unlawful for any person, acting alone or in concert with others, to
engage in targeted residential picketing in the City of Lehi. (Ord. 64-2020,
12-10-2020)
6-8-4: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any violation of this section is a Class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 64-2020, 12-10-
2020)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Parking; Illegal
7-1-2: Restricted Vehicles; Parking Restrictions; Penalty
7-1-3: Traffic Code For School Property
7-1-4: Jake Brake Illegal; Penalty
7-1-5: Leaving Children In Vehicles Illegal; Penalty
7-1-1: PARKING; ILLEGAL:
In addition to types of stopping, standing or parking declared illegal in other
sections of this code, it shall be illegal to park a motor vehicle under the
following circumstances:
   A.   More Than Forty Eight Hours: No person shall park a vehicle on any
street for more than a consecutive forty eight (48) hour period.
   B.   Repairing Vehicle: No person shall park a vehicle on any street for the
principal purpose of greasing or repairing such vehicle, except immediate
repairs necessitated by an emergency.
   C.   Upon A Sidewalk: No person shall leave or park a vehicle upon a
sidewalk or upon any portion of a street between the curb lines and the
sidewalk.
   D.   Displaying For Sale: No person shall park a vehicle on any street or
roadway for the principal purpose of displaying such vehicle for sale or
displaying advertising.
   E.   Snow Removal:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle, car, truck, trailer, RV, ATV
trailer, box trailer or such like items on any street from November 1 to March
30 between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
Overnight parking on any street, during the period herein specified, is hereby
prohibited.
      2.   No person shall park or leave a vehicle on any street during any
snowstorm, nor shall a vehicle be parked on the street within twenty four (24)
hours after the end of such storm.
      3.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle upon a street in
violation of the provisions of this section, the officer is authorized to have
the vehicle removed at the expense of the registered owner of the vehicle.
      4.   Whenever a motor vehicle has been parked in violation of this
section, the person in whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima
facie responsible for such violation and liable for payment of the applicable
fee.
      5.   The fee for violating any provision of this section shall be as
adopted annually by the city council in the city civil fines schedule and shall
be in addition to any charge for towing and storage of the vehicle, if
necessary. A separate infraction shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010; amd.
2015 Code)
7-1-2: RESTRICTED VEHICLES; PARKING RESTRICTIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Restrictions: Vehicles with a gross weight of sixteen thousand (16,000)
pounds or more, any semitractor or semitrailer, or any vehicles carrying
explosives, corrosives or flammable substances, are declared restricted
vehicles. No such vehicle shall be loaded, unloaded or serviced upon any street
or part of any street within a residential zone if there is usable off street
loading, unloading or servicing space available. Except for such limited
purposes described in this subsection, restricted vehicles shall not be parked
for any period of time on any street or public right of way within a
residential zone in Lehi City. Vehicles which normally carry explosive,
corrosive or flammable substances, even though empty at the time, shall not be
parked for any period of time anywhere within a residential zone in the city.
   B.   Recreational Vehicles; Trailers: It is unlawful to park or keep any
motor home, trailer, camper, boat, recreational vehicle or trailer of any kind,
attached or unattached, on a public street, except for the limited purpose of
loading or unloading the same, not to exceed twelve (12) hours.
   C.   Exceptions: This section shall in no way restrict the loading and
unloading of passengers on or off public and/or private transportation or
school buses. This section shall in no way restrict the parking or stopping of
restricted vehicles when the vehicle is being used to deliver household
accessories or household furniture. This section shall in no way restrict the
temporary parking or stopping of a city vehicle or of a vehicle owned and/or
operated by a public utility for the purpose of conducting repairs or related
work. This section shall not restrict the temporary parking of vehicles used to
deliver building supplies and materials to property in residential zones, nor
shall it prohibit the temporary parking of vehicles used by individuals
performing work upon property in residential zones.
   D.   Penalty: It is an infraction for any person to do any act forbidden, or
fail to perform any act required, by this section, and as such may be punished
by a fine. Alternatively, a civil penalty may be imposed for nonmoving
violations as prescribed in the city civil fines schedule. (Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-
10-2010; Ord. 12- 2020, 3-31-2020)
7-1-3: TRAFFIC CODE FOR SCHOOL PROPERTY:
The traffic rules and regulations of the city applicable upon city streets and
highways throughout the city and known as the city traffic code are adopted as
rules and regulations for the control of vehicular traffic and parking upon all
school property within the corporate limits of the city. Such traffic rules and
regulations, together with the prescribed penalties for violations thereof,
shall be interpreted, construed and applied insofar as practicable to all
traffic situations arising upon school property to the same extent as though
such school property were a public street, road or highway and for the purpose
of this section, such school property is declared to be, and shall be
considered, a public street, road or highway. All such rules and regulations,
with respect to school property, shall be enforced by any law enforcement
officer of the state, county or city, and they are vested with authority to
direct, control or regulate traffic upon schoolhouse sites within the city.
(Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010)
7-1-4: JAKE BRAKE ILLEGAL; PENALTY:
   A.   No person shall operate or permit the operation of any motor vehicle
with a dynamic braking device engaged within the boundaries of Lehi City,
except to avert imminent danger. The emitting of any compression noise shall be
prima facie evidence of the use of engine compression.
   B.   "Dynamic braking device", commonly referred to as "jake brake", means a
device used primarily on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an
internal combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of braking
without the use of wheel brakes. (Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010)
   C.   Any person violating the dynamic braking device provisions shall be
guilty of a class C misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010; amd. 2015 Code)
7-1-5: LEAVING CHILDREN IN VEHICLES ILLEGAL; PENALTY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person having in his care, custody, control or
under his guidance any child under six (6) years of age to leave such child
unattended in an automobile, truck, trailer or other vehicle upon a public
street, alley or parking lot open to the public.
   B.   A child is unattended within the meaning of this section if he is left
in the vehicle alone or, if not alone, the oldest person with the child is
under twelve (12) years of age. (Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010)
   C.   Any person violating this provision shall be guilty of an infraction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Duty To Keep Proper Lookout
7-2-2: Negligent Collision
7-2-3: Riding Bicycles, Skates, Skateboards On Sidewalks
7-2-4: Clinging To Vehicles
7-2-5: Parking At City Park
7-2-6: Street Legal All-Terrain Vehicles
7-2-7: Penalty
7-2-1: DUTY TO KEEP PROPER LOOKOUT:
No person shall drive a vehicle on the public streets without keeping a
reasonable and proper lookout for other traffic, objects, fixtures or property
thereon or adjacent thereto. (Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010)
7-2-2: NEGLIGENT COLLISION:
It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle with such lack of due care and in
such a negligent manner as to cause it to collide with any vehicle, person or
object. (Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010)
7-2-3: RIDING BICYCLES, SKATES, SKATEBOARDS ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle, skateboard, roller skates or
other human powered device upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right
of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and
passing such pedestrian.
   B.   The city is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles, skateboards, roller skates or other devices
thereon by any person and, when such signs are in place, no person shall
disobey the same.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to ride or use a skateboard, roller skates,
rollerblades or similar device on a public street or sidewalk after dark unless
the user is equipped with reflective material of sufficient size and
reflectivity to be visible from both sides for five hundred feet (500') when
directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, or in
lieu of reflective material, with a lighted lamp visible from both sides from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500'). "After dark" shall mean one-half
(1/2) hour after sunset.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to ride or use a bicycle, skateboard, roller
skates, rollerblades or similar device on the sidewalks, steps or ramps on any
of the city property. (Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010)
7-2-4: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
   A.   No persons shall attach themselves to any vehicle that is in motion on
a public street or right of way. No person riding a bicycle, coaster,
skateboard, roller skates, sled or toy shall hold or attach the same on himself
or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   B.   No operator of a vehicle shall allow another person to attach to a
vehicle in any way while a vehicle is in motion. (Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010)
7-2-5: PARKING AT CITY PARK:
All city parks shall be closed between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following morning. No vehicle shall be permitted to be
parked or stored at any city park during the restricted hours. (Ord. 8-10-10.6,
8-10-2010)
7-2-6: STREET LEGAL ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES:
   A.   Permitted, Prohibited Streets: Street legal all-terrain vehicles are
authorized to be used on all city streets, except Main Street, in accordance
with this section and with state law as set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 41-22-10.5. Street legal all-terrain vehicles are not to be driven upon
any federal or state highways, including, but not necessarily limited to,
Interstate 15, Pioneer Crossing, State Street and 2100 North (west of State
Street). Any other or future federal or state highways, limited access
highways, or city streets which have more than one lane in the same direction
are also excluded from this section.
   B.   Criteria: In order to be street legal, all-terrain vehicles must meet
all of the criteria as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-1509. The
definitions of all-terrain type I and II vehicles as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 41-22-2 are incorporated herein.
   C.   License Required: All operators of street legal all-terrain vehicles
must have in their possession a valid driver's license, with appropriate
endorsements.
   D.   Traffic Rules Followed: All traffic rules and regulations shall be
followed by any operator of a street legal all- terrain vehicle. (Ord. 22-2012,
7-10-2012)
7-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any part of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010)
CHAPTER 3
CIVIL INFRACTIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Statement Of Intent
7-3-2: Position Of Civil Violations Hearing Examiner Created; Powers And Duties
7-3-3: Acts Made Civil Infractions
7-3-4: Notice Of Infraction
7-3-5: Response To Notice Of Infraction; Payments By Mail
7-3-6: Fee For Infractions; Payment
7-3-7: Contesting An Infraction; Hearing; Appeals
7-3-8: Special Provisions Relating To Parking Regulations
7-3-9: Civil Appeals
7-3-10: Criminal Violation
7-3-11: Civil Collection Actions
7-3-12: Enforcement
7-3-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT:
The city enacts this chapter with the intent to decriminalize, where possible,
city parking violations and sections
7-1-1 and
7-1-2 of this title, which have traditionally been regulated by the criminal
laws. This is done to assist residents of the city, and others, by expediting
the resolution of cases and to remove the social stigma attached to criminal
actions. With the enactment of this chapter, the city is acting, in part,
pursuant to authorization found in Utah Code Annotated sections 10-8-84, 41-6a-
207 and 41-6a-208, as amended. (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012; amd. 2015 Code)
7-3-2: POSITION OF CIVIL VIOLATIONS HEARING EXAMINER CREATED; POWERS AND
DUTIES:
The position of civil violations hearing examiner is hereby created within the
finance department. A hearing examiner shall perform all duties and exercise
all powers described in this chapter. The amount of a hearing examiner's
compensation shall not be based directly or indirectly upon the outcome of
cases heard by the hearing examiner. The duties of the hearing examiner may be
performed through subordinates, except that a hearing shall be conducted only
by a hearing officer if a person charged with an infraction so requests in
writing. (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012)
7-3-3: ACTS MADE CIVIL INFRACTIONS:
The following acts shall be pursued as civil infractions and within the
jurisdiction of the city civil violations hearing examiner:
   Violation of any of the parking regulations described in sections
7-1-1 and
7-1-2 of this title. (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012; amd. 2015 Code)
7-3-4: NOTICE OF INFRACTION:
A written notice of infraction shall be issued to each person or vehicle
charged with a civil infraction, which notice shall contain not less than the
following information:
   A.   The name and address of the person charged with the infraction.
Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, a notice of
infraction for a parking violation placed on a parked motor vehicle need not
include a name and address;
   B.   The infraction charged;
   C.   The date and place of the infraction;
   D.   If the infraction involved the use of a motor vehicle, the make of the
vehicle and its license number;
   E.   Notice that the notice of infraction must be responded to at the office
of the civil violations hearing examiner; and
   F.   Other information, including, in the discretion of the civil violations
hearing examiner, information related to payments by mail. (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-
2012)
7-3-5: RESPONSE TO NOTICE OF INFRACTION; PAYMENTS BY MAIL:
   A.   Any person to whom a notice of infraction has been issued shall respond
within five (5) business days thereof by:
      1.   Paying the fee described in section
7-3-6 of this chapter (for good cause, the civil violations hearing examiner
may allow reasonable terms for payment);
      2.   Contesting the violation in the manner described in section
7-3-7 of this chapter; or
      3.   Demonstrating the financial inability to pay the applicable fee on
any reasonable terms. A person claiming under this subsection shall agree with
the civil violations hearing examiner to perform public service in lieu of
paying the fee, which public service shall be performed in not more than thirty
(30) days after the agreement is entered into.
   B.   Fees may be paid by mail, but the risk that payments may be lost in the
mail shall be on the sender, and all payments shall be received by the civil
violations hearing examiner within the times required by this chapter. (Ord.
30-2012, 8-28-2012)
7-3-6: FEE FOR INFRACTIONS; PAYMENT:
   A.   Fees and other money related to civil infractions shall be paid to the
finance department in such manner, not inconsistent with this chapter, as the
finance department shall direct. (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012)
   B.   The fee for violation of any acts made civil infractions under this
title, or any other parking violation found in this code but not specifically
mentioned in this title, shall be as adopted annually by the city council in
the city civil fines schedule. (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   The fee for violation of a civil infraction paid or contested within
five (5) business days after the notice of infraction is issued shall be the
base amount set forth in the city civil fine schedule.
   D.   The fee for violation of a civil infraction paid or contested between
six (6) business days and ten (10) business days after a notice of infraction
is issued shall be double the base amount set forth in the city civil fine
schedule.
   E.   The fee for violation of a civil infraction paid or contested eleven
(11) business days or more after a notice of infraction is issued shall be
treble the base amount set forth in the city civil fine schedule.
   F.   A civil infraction shall be deemed in default if sixteen (16) business
days or more after the notice of infraction was issued, the applicable fee has
not been paid or the action contested. In addition to other penalties described
in this chapter, a civil infraction in default shall be subject to the
following penalties: impoundment and towing; legal action for collection of all
costs, attorney fees and administrative costs; criminal prosecution pursuant to
section
7-3-10 of this chapter.
   G.   In addition to any other penalty or fine stated within this chapter,
and not in lieu of any other penalty or legal action which can be taken against
a person or vehicle, any vehicle found to be in violation of any provision of
this chapter, including, but not limited to, a vehicle which blocks a driveway
to a residence or business in such a manner that vehicles cannot safely enter
or exit said driveway, may be towed and impounded upon the direction of any
police officer, parking enforcement officer or fire officer upon said officer
finding said situation creates a condition which impairs the health or safety
of the public. The registered owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for all
towing and storage fees incurred in the event a vehicle is removed. The owner
or the owner's agent may claim the vehicle only after paying any fines incurred
and any towing and impounding fees incurred. Any contest of a removal shall be
made by giving written notice, requesting a contest hearing, to the city
hearing examiner, within fifteen (15) business days of the removal. (Ord. 30-
2012, 8-28-2012)
7-3-7: CONTESTING AN INFRACTION; HEARING; APPEALS:
   A.   Any person charged with an infraction may contest the same instead of
paying the fee. An infraction is contested by causing written notice thereof to
be delivered to the office of the civil violations hearing examiner. If the
person charged with an infraction fails or refuses to give a correct mailing
address when contesting an infraction, the action shall be deemed to be in
default and not contested.
   B.   When an infraction is contested, the hearing examiner shall thereafter
conduct a civil hearing with respect thereto. The notice of infraction shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the infraction alleged therein actually
occurred. The hearing shall be conducted as informally as the circumstances
will allow and shall be based on the civil standard of a preponderance of the
evidence. At the hearing, any party may be required to testify.
   C.   The hearing examiner shall decide if the alleged infraction occurred.
If the hearing examiner finds the infraction alleged did not occur, the notice
of infraction shall be without any further force or effect. If the hearing
examiner finds at the hearing that the infraction alleged did occur, the person
to whom the notice of infraction was issued shall respond as provided in
subsection
7-3-5A1 or A3 of this chapter. The response shall be within five (5) calendar
days after the hearing, unless the decision is given by mail and not at the
hearing, in which event the response shall be in ten (10) calendar days after
the decision is mailed to the address given when the infraction was contested.
A contested action shall be in default if not responded to in the time periods
provided in this subsection. (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012)
7-3-8: SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO PARKING REGULATIONS:
If a civil infraction relates to a parking regulation, the following rules
shall apply:
   A.   The notice of infraction may be issued by affixing the same to the
subject motor vehicle in a conspicuous place.
   B.   Whenever a motor vehicle has been parked in violation of any parking
regulation, the person in whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima
facie responsible for such violation and liable for payment of the applicable
fee.
   C.   Any motor vehicle with respect to which four (4) or more notices of
infraction are in default is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the
city may authorize said motor vehicle to be towed from the public streets at
the expense and risk of the registered owner. Said motor vehicle shall be held
and not released until the unpaid fees and reasonable costs of towing and
storage have been paid.
   D.   If a motor vehicle has been towed from the public streets pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter and is being held for the payment of fees and
charges, the owner thereof or the agent of the owner may, in writing, request a
hearing to determine the validity of the action taken with respect to said
motor vehicle and said hearing shall take place within seventy two (72) hours
from the date of the request, unless the applicant agrees to a longer period of
time before the hearing. The hearing examiner may order the release of any
motor vehicle without cost to the owner or the owner's agent if said motor
vehicle was towed from the public streets or is being held in violation of this
chapter or other applicable law. (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012)
7-3-9: CIVIL APPEALS:
Any person unsatisfied with a decision of a civil violations hearing examiner
may appeal the same within fifteen (15) calendar days to the justice court,
which shall hear the action de novo in the manner described in subsection 7-3-
7B of this chapter. Failure to respond to a notice of infraction shall not be a
decision from which an appeal can be taken. (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012)
7-3-10: CRIMINAL VIOLATION:
   A.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision in this chapter, it shall be a
criminal misdemeanor violation, with original jurisdiction in the justice
court: (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012; amd. 2015 Code)
      1.   For a person to whom a notice of infraction has been issued to allow
the subject action to go into default;
      2.   For a registered owner to fail or refuse to respond to a notice of
infraction issued pursuant to section
7-3-4 of this chapter; or
      3.   For a person to wilfully fail or refuse to completely perform the
public service agreed to pursuant to subsection
7-3-5A3 of this chapter.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, it shall be a rebuttable presumption
that the notice of infraction and any other notices have been received by the
addressee. (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012)
7-3-11: CIVIL COLLECTION ACTIONS:
The city may bring civil suit in the courts of the state to recover the amount
of overdue and unpaid fees, including attorney fees and costs related thereto.
(Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012)
7-3-12: ENFORCEMENT:
City employees and police department volunteers are authorized to issue civil
infraction citations, pursuant to provisions of this chapter. These employees
and volunteers will be required to be trained regarding the city and state
codes prior to issuing citations. Training will be conducted by the police
department. (Ord. 30-2012, 8-28-2012)
CHAPTER 4
TOWING AND PARKING
SECTION:
7-4-1: Enforcement Operations
7-4-1: ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: The definitions set forth in section
4-7-1 of this code shall apply to this section.
   B.   Towing Generally: An owner or a person in lawful possession or control
of real property may, to the extent authorized by this section, tow away or
boot any unauthorized vehicle located on the property. An unauthorized vehicle
is any vehicle parked or stopped in violation of private property parking
regulations which govern parking for authorized tenants and visitors or which
restrict parking in a loading zone, handicapped zone, fire lane, or a no
parking zone.
   C.   Towing Request: No person may conduct a towing or parking enforcement
operation unless:
      1.   Authorized by the owner of the private property on which the vehicle
is located, or the owner's agent; or
      2.   Requested by a peace officer or by an order of a person acting on
behalf of a law enforcement agency.
   D.   Report Towing To Law Enforcement: Except as otherwise ordered by a
peace officer or a person acting on behalf of a law enforcement agency, after
performing a towing operation without the vehicle owner's knowledge, the tow
operator shall report the towing of the vehicle to the Lehi City police
dispatcher within the soonest of one hour or immediately upon arriving at the
place of storage or impound of the vehicle using the current published
nonemergency telephone number of the Lehi police department. The report shall
include:
      1.   The vehicle's description, including its vehicle identification
number and license number or other identification number issued by a state
agency;
      2.   The name of the person, firm, or corporation impounding or towing
the vehicle;
      3.   The name of the person who requested removal of the vehicle;
      4.   The date, time, and location of the vehicle's removal;
      5.   Reason(s) for removal of the vehicle;
      6.   The location where the subject vehicle will be kept; and
      7.   A telephone number, staffed twenty four (24) hours a day, which an
owner can call to arrange for release of the vehicle.
   E.   Towing Criteria: No person may conduct a towing or parking enforcement
operation other than on a vehicle which has been continuously parked for more
than seventy two (72) hours, unless:
      1.   "No parking" areas, restricted parking spaces, and visitor parking
spaces, if any, are clearly marked with signage installed in such a manner as
to provide adequate notice to those utilizing the parking area, including
marking of the boundaries between the subject parking lot and any adjoining
parking lot owned by another person; and
      2.   A conspicuous sign posted at, or immediately adjacent to, each
entrance to the property provides notice that unauthorized vehicles may be
towed from the parking lot or booted. Each such sign shall:
         a.   Be at least eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24") in
size;
         b.   Give warning, in large reflective lettering, that unauthorized
vehicles may be towed or booted;
         c.   Give the name and telephone number of business(es) authorized to
conduct a towing or parking enforcement operation on the property;
         d.   State the fees charged for towing and parking enforcement
operations; and
         e.   Be posted within approximately five feet (5') of each entrance to
a parking lot.
            (1)   For purposes of this subsection, a "parking lot entrance"
shall mean any access allowing the entrance or exit of a vehicle between a
private parking lot and a city street unless such access is not the property of
the parking lot owner. In such case, the parking lot entrance shall mean:
      (A) The intersection of the parking lot property line and the property
line of the access point; or
      (B) Any privately owned road connected to a public right of way leading
to the entrance of a parking lot located on private property.
            (2)   A sign posted directly over a driveway leading to an
underground lot shall be deemed to meet the location requirements of this
subsection.
            (3)   If signs cannot be posted within five feet (5') from the
entrance to a parking lot for reasons of practical difficulty (such as the
necessity of drilling a hole through concrete, removing a tree or shrubs, or
because of an immediately adjacent private driveway not owned by the owner of
the parking lot), a sign may be placed as close as reasonably practicable to
the parking lot entrance. However, no sign shall be further than thirty feet
(30') from the edge of the curb that borders the private property.
   F.   Towing On Private Property: No person may conduct a towing or parking
enforcement operation regarding a vehicle located on private property unless:
      1.   The owner of the subject real property or the owner's agent:
         a.   Conforms to the requirements of subsections F2a and G of this
section;
         b.   Discloses in writing to each tenant of the property when the
tenant first occupies the property:
            (1)   The rules which govern the use of parking areas;
            (2)   That parking a vehicle in violation of such rules may subject
the vehicle to a towing or parking enforcement operation; and
            (3)   That the tenant may contest a towing or parking enforcement
operation as provided in this chapter;
      2.   The towing or parking enforcement business conducting the operation:
         a.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection G of this section,
receives from the property owner or the owner's agent, who shall not be
affiliated in any way with the towing or parking enforcement business, a
written or telephonic request for each towing or parking enforcement of a
particular vehicle;
         b.   Posts a copy of the towing or parking enforcement business's fee
schedule in a prominent place at the location where vehicles are released from
storage; and
         c.   Maintains personnel authorized to release any vehicle to its
owner twenty four (24) hours each day and who can respond within one hour of a
request for release of a vehicle;
      3.   The towing or parking enforcement business employee who conducts, or
attempts to conduct, a towing or parking enforcement operation:
         a.   Wears either:
            (1)   A readily identifiable shirt, blouse, or other top article of
clothing with the name of the business and the first name of the employee
contained thereon and readable from a distance of six feet (6'); or
            (2)   A prominently visible identification badge on the front of
employee's clothing with the name of the business and the first name of the
employee contained thereon and readable from a distance of six feet (6');
         b.   Possesses evidence of:
            (1)   Either a written or telephonic towing or parking enforcement
request from the property owner or the owner's agent, or the contract required
by subsection G of this section and a license or certification as a Lehi City
towing or parking enforcement business, and
            (2)   The fee schedule required by subsection F2b of this section;
         c.   Upon request, provides the name and telephone number of the
property owner or owner's agent, and shows the evidence required by subsection
F3b of this section to:
            (1)   A person whose vehicle is subject to the towing or parking
enforcement operation; and
            (2)   Any law enforcement officer;
         d.   Prior to mechanically connecting a vehicle to a tow truck or
booting a vehicle, documents, through the use of date and time stamped digital
photography or digital video, the precise nature of the violation of the
private property parking regulations; and
         e.   Upon booting a vehicle, places a notice on the driver's door
window which indicates:
            (1)   In large letters (24 - 36 font size), "This vehicle has been
booted";
            (2)   The name and telephone number of the towing or parking
enforcement business and the name of the person that immobilized the vehicle;
            (3)   A telephone number, staffed twenty four (24) hours a day,
which the vehicle owner may call to arrange for release of the vehicle;
            (4)   Applicable fees; and
            (5)   The following statement:
   A person who tows or boots a vehicle unlawfully may be subject to criminal
and civil penalties as provided in Lehi City Code
7-4-1. A person whose vehicle is towed or booted shall be entitled, upon
request, to the name and telephone number of the owner of the property or
owner's agent where the tow or boot occurred.
         f.   Upon towing a vehicle, takes the vehicle directly to a storage
lot within Lehi City that complies with the requirements of state law, this
section, and Lehi City development code 12.1.40(g).
         g.   Once the vehicle is mechanically connected to the tow truck, the
tow operator may only disconnect the vehicle:
            (1)   Upon arrival at the storage lot;
            (2)   To release the vehicle to the driver, owner, or owner's
agent; or
            (3)   To abandon the tow and leave the vehicle where the tow
operator originally found it.
      4.   Any person conducting a towing or parking enforcement operation of a
vehicle located on private property shall:
         a.   Maintain the documentation required under subsection F3d of this
section for no less than one year;
         b.   Make available, prior to taking payment for the towing or parking
enforcement operation, a copy of the documentation required under subsection
F3d of this section, upon request by any of the following:
            (1)   The driver or owner of the vehicle that was subject to the
towing or parking enforcement operation, or the owner's agent; and
            (2)   Any law enforcement officer; and
         c.   Prior to taking any payment related to a towing or parking
enforcement operation, provide the driver or owner of the towed or booted
vehicle, or the owner's authorized agent, with a statement of the owner's
rights regarding towing and parking enforcement operations that has been
approved by Lehi City administration.
   G.   Towing Request Exemption: The written or telephonic request required
under subsection F2a of this section prior to initiating a towing or parking
enforcement operation is not required if all of the following requirements are
met:
      1.   The towing or parking enforcement business conducting the towing or
parking enforcement operation has been designated as a Lehi City qualified
towing or parking enforcement business by the mayor, or the mayor's designee;
         a.   A licensed towing or parking enforcement business may seek this
qualification by completing and signing a written application on a form
provided by the city.
         b.   The licensed applicant business shall be granted this
qualification upon satisfying the mayor, or the mayor's designee, that the
applicant's business operations comply with all of the contractual obligations
required under subsection G3 of this section.
      2.   The owner of the property where the towing or parking enforcement
operation takes place complies with all the contractual obligations required
under subsection G3 of this section; and
      3.   The towing and parking enforcement business and the private property
owner must have, and comply with, a contract that contains provisions
documenting and requiring all of the following:
         a.   A right of appeal to the property owner by the owner or operator
of the vehicle booted or towed;
         b.   The right of the property owner to grant the appeal and waive
part or all of the fees and charges incurred by the appellant;
            (1)   A documented plan for providing adequate visitor parking;
            (2)   Reasonable, as determined by the mayor or the mayor's
designee, temporary permit parking on a 24/7 availability basis for any
property where the owner requires permit parking;
            (3)   Signage that, in the mayor or mayor's designee's reasonable
opinion, provides fair notice to all persons of all limitations on parking on
the property; and
            (4)   A limitation of the towing or parking enforcement operator's
total maximum fees and charges for booting or otherwise immobilizing a vehicle
to sixty dollars ($60.00) and the total maximum fees and charges for towing a
vehicle to one hundred seventy five dollars ($175.00), including the first day
of storage (subsequent days of storage may be charged in accordance with the
rules and rates set forth in rule R909-19-13, Utah administrative code).
      4.   It is a violation of this section to conduct a towing or parking
enforcement operation without a written or telephonic request pursuant to this
subsection G if either party to a contract described in subsection G3 of this
section fails to comply with a contract provision required under subsection G3
of this section.
      5.   Appeals by towing or parking enforcement operators or property
owners of decisions by the mayor, or the mayor's designee, made under this
subsection G may be appealed pursuant to section
4-1-6 of this code.
   H.   Towing A Booted Vehicle: A booted vehicle may not be removed from the
site sooner than two (2) hours after the time of booting.
   I.   Payment For Towed Vehicle: Except as otherwise provided in this
section, a towing or parking enforcement business conducting a towing or
parking enforcement operation pursuant to this section shall release the
subject vehicle to its owner or agent immediately upon payment of applicable
fees authorized by this section or by rule R909-19, Utah administrative code,
as amended.
      1.   The towing or parking enforcement business shall accept payment
offered in cash or by major credit card, but shall not be obligated to accept
checks or payment in coins and shall maintain sufficient cash on hand to make
change of up to forty dollars ($40.00).
      2.   Every towing or parking enforcement business providing services
pursuant to this subsection shall post in a conspicuous place upon its business
premises a true copy of this section.
      3.   A parking enforcement business shall be limited to a maximum booting
fee, per vehicle, of fifty percent (50%) of the maximum towing rate for
nonconsent tows as provided in rule R909-19-12, Utah administrative code, and
may not charge any other fee for a parking enforcement operation. If an
immobilized vehicle is towed, no fee of any kind relating to booting may be
charged in addition to towing, storage, or other applicable fees. If a vehicle
is towed or booted unlawfully, no fee shall be payable.
      4.   If the vehicle owner or agent arrives at the vehicle before the
towing or parking enforcement operator has mechanically connected the vehicle
to a tow truck or booting device, the towing or parking enforcement operator
shall:
         a.   Not continue to tow or boot the vehicle; and
         b.   Not be entitled to tow or boot the vehicle or to charge any fee
whatsoever if the vehicle is promptly removed from the premises.
      5.   If a tow truck is mechanically connected to a vehicle, the tow truck
shall be in possession of the vehicle. If the vehicle owner or agent attempts
to retrieve the vehicle before the vehicle is removed from the property, the
maximum towing or parking enforcement fee shall not exceed fifty percent (50%)
of the posted rate schedule.
      6.   No parking enforcement fee, other than fees authorized by this
subsection, shall be charged as a condition of releasing a booted vehicle.
      7.   A vehicle shall be released immediately upon payment of any required
fees authorized by this section.
   J.   No Consideration For Towing Agreements: Property owners, managers, or
their agents shall not receive any consideration whatsoever from any towing or
parking enforcement business in exchange for utilizing such business's services
to tow or boot unauthorized vehicles from the owner's property or for entering
into a services agreement with a towing or parking enforcement business.
   K.   Towing Damages: Any person acting to remove or otherwise disturb any
vehicle parked, stalled, or otherwise left on privately owned or controlled
property, and any person owning or controlling such private property, or either
of them, shall be liable to the owner, owner's agent, or driver of a vehicle,
or each of them, for consequential and incidental damages arising from any
interference with the ownership or use of such vehicle which does not comply
with the requirements of this section.
   L.   Criminal Penalties: It shall be unlawful to:
      1.   Tamper with or remove from a vehicle a lawfully installed boot
without the authorization of the towing or parking enforcement operator who
applied the boot, which authorization shall not be withheld in violation of
state or local law; and
      2.   To disconnect a vehicle mechanically connected to a tow truck
without the authorization of the towing or parking enforcement operator
lawfully in possession of the vehicle, which authorization shall not be
withheld in violation of state or local law.
      3.   Violation of this subsection or any subsection or provision of this
section is a class B misdemeanor.
   M.   Civil Penalties: In addition to any other penalty, a civil action for
damages or to abate a violation of this chapter may be brought by any aggrieved
person.
      1.   A person who authorizes, tows, or immobilizes a vehicle from private
property in violation of the provisions of this section is liable in a civil
action for a penalty of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) as the court may
determine. A civil action under this subsection may not be commenced later than
one hundred eighty (180) days after occurrence of the violation.
      2.   Lack of compliance with the requirements of subsections E, F, and G
of this section shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      3.   The remedies provided for in this subsection shall be cumulative and
not exclusive.
      4.   Nothing in this section shall preclude prosecution of any crime,
including, but not limited to, criminal mischief, fraud, and theft. (Ord. 42-
2016, 7-12-2016)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
TELECOMMUNICATIONS USE OF RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
8-1-1: Declaration Of Findings And Intent; Scope
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Franchise Required
8-1-4: Compensation And Other Payments
8-1-5: Franchise Applications
8-1-6: Construction And Technical Requirements
8-1-7: Franchise And License Nontransferable
8-1-8: Oversight And Regulation
8-1-9: Rights Of City
8-1-10: Obligation To Notify; Publicizing Work
8-1-11: General Provisions
8-1-12: Federal, State And City Jurisdiction
8-1-1: DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND INTENT; SCOPE:
   A.   Declaration Of Finding And Intent:
      1.   Findings Regarding Rights Of Way: The city finds that the rights of
way with the city:
         a.   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property
in the business and social life of the city;
         b.   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
         c.   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and
other public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered
for profit, to the enhancement of the health, welfare and general economic well
being of the city and its citizens; and
         d.   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and
negative effects upon the public from such facilities' construction, placement,
relocation and maintenance in the rights of way.
      2.   Findings Regarding Compensation: The city finds that the city should
receive fair and reasonable compensation for use of the rights of way.
      3.   Findings Regarding Local Concern: The city finds that while
telecommunications systems are in part an extension of interstate commerce,
their operations also involve rights of way, municipal franchising, and vital
business and community service, which are of local concern.
      4.   Findings Regarding Promotion Of Telecommunications Services: The
city finds that it is in the best interest of its taxpayers and citizens to
promote the rapid development of telecommunications services, on a
nondiscrimination basis, responsive to community and public interest, and to
assure availability for municipal, educational and community services.
      5.   Findings Regarding Franchise Standards: The city finds that it is in
the interests of the public to franchise and to establish standards for
franchising providers in a manner that:
         a.   Fairly and reasonably compensates the city on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein;
         b.   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under
which providers may use the rights of way to serve the public;
         c.   Fully protects the public interests and the city from any harm
that may flow from such commercial use of rights of way;
         d.   Protects the police powers and rights of way management authority
of the city, in a manner consistent with federal and state law;
         e.   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and
use of the city infrastructure;
         f.   Protects the public's investment in improvements in the rights of
way; and
         g.   Ensures that no barriers to entry of telecommunications providers
are created and that such franchising is accomplished in a manner that does not
prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting telecommunications services, within
the meaning of the telecommunications act of 1996 ("act") (Pub.L. 104-104).
      6.   Power To Manage Rights Of Way: The city adopts this
telecommunications chapter pursuant to its power to manage the rights of way,
pursuant to common law, the Utah constitution and statutory authority, and
receive fair and reasonable compensation for the use of rights of way by
providers as expressly set forth by section 253 of the act.
   B.   Scope Of Chapter: This chapter shall provide the basic local scheme for
providers of telecommunications services and systems that require the use of
the rights of way, including providers of both the system and service, those
providers of the system only, and those providers who do not build the system
but who only provide services. This chapter shall apply to all future providers
and to all providers in the city prior to the effective date hereof, whether
operating with or without a franchise as set forth in subsection
8-1-12B of this chapter.
   C.   Excluded Activity:
      1.   Cable TV: This chapter shall not apply to cable television operators
otherwise regulated by title 4, chapter 2, article A of this code.
      2.   Wireless Services: This chapter shall not apply to personal wireless
service facilities.
      3.   Provisions Applicable To Excluded Providers: Providers excused by
other law that prohibits the city from requiring a franchise shall not be
required to obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this
chapter through the exercise of the city police power and not preempted by
other law shall be applicable. (1984 Code § 5.64.010)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
"shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
APPLICATION: The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates a
desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the rights of way of all, or a
part, of the city. An "application" includes all written documentation, verbal
statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a provider
to the city concerning: the construction of a telecommunications system over,
under, on or through the rights of way; the telecommunications services
proposed to be provided in the city by a provider; and any other matter
pertaining to a proposed system or service.
CITY: Lehi City, Utah.
COMPLETION DATE: The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers in the city.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS: All costs of constructing a system, including make ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney or accountant fees, or other
consulting fees.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert, of more
than twenty five percent (25%) of any provider (which person or group of
persons is hereinafter referred to as "controlling person"). "Control" or
"controlling interest", as used herein, may be held simultaneously by more than
one person or group of persons.
FCC: The federal communications commission, or any successor thereto.
FRANCHISE: The rights and obligation extended by the city to a provider to own,
lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a system in the rights of way within
the boundaries of the city. Any such authorization, in whatever form granted,
shall not mean or include: a) any other permit or authorization required for
the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the city
required by the ordinances and laws of the city; b) any other permit, agreement
or authorization required in connection with operations on rights of way or
public property, including, without limitation, permits and agreements for
placing devices on or in poles, conduits or other structures, whether owned by
the city or a private entity, or for excavating or performing other work in or
along the rights of way.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A contract, entered into in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter, between the city and a franchisee that sets forth, subject to
this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will be
exercised.
GROSS REVENUE: Includes all revenues of a provider that may be included as
gross revenue within the meaning of Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 26,
as amended.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the rights of way.
OPEN VIDEO SERVICE: Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights of way, by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to section 651 et seq., of the
telecommunications act (to be codified at 47 USC title VI, part V), regardless
of the system used.
OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM: The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, waveguides,
optic fiber, microwave, laser beams, and any associated converters, equipment
or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
amplifying or distributing open video services to or from subscribers or
locations within the city.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more persons owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
ORDINANCE OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE: The telecommunications ordinance
codified herein concerning the granting of franchises in and by the city for
the construction, ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a
telecommunications system.
PSC: The public service commission, or any successor thereto.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust, or any other legal entity, but not the city.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES: Has the same meaning as provided in
section 704 of the act (47 USC 332(c)(7)(c)7), which includes what is commonly
known as cellular and PCS services that do not install any system or portion of
a system in the rights of way.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller or system lessee.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides local exchange service over a
system for which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or
lease the underlying system used for the transmission.
RIGHTS OF WAY: The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or hereafter
existing as such within the city.
SIGNAL: Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or laser
or radio frequency energy or optical information in either analog or digital
format.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by the
user, of information of the user's choosing (e.g., data, video and voice),
without change in the form or content of the information sent and received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE OR SERVICES: Any telecommunications services
provided by a provider within the city that the provider is authorized to
provide under federal, state and local law, and any equipment and/or facilities
required for and integrated with the services provided within the city, except
that these terms do not include "cable service" as defined in the cable
communications policy act of 1984, as amended by the cable television consumer
protection and competition act of 1992 (47 USC section 521 et seq.), and the
telecommunications act of 1996.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEMS: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a provider, located in the rights of
way and utilized in the provision of services, including fully digital or
analog, voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced telecommunications
services. "Telecommunications system or systems" also include an open video
system.
WIRE: Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
(1984 Code § 5.64.020; amd. 2015 Code)
8-1-3: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
   A.   Nonexclusive Franchise: The city is empowered and authorized to issue
nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction and
maintenance of systems in the city rights of way, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the city and provider.
   B.   Every Provider Must Obtain Franchise: Except to the extent preempted by
federal or state law, as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent
jurisdiction, including any appeals, every provider must obtain a franchise
prior to constructing a telecommunications system or providing
telecommunications services using the rights of way, and every provider must
obtain a franchise before constructing an open video system or providing open
video services via an open video system. Any open video system or service shall
be subject to the customer service and consumer protection provisions
applicable to the cable TV companies to the extent the city is not preempted or
permitted as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including any appeals. The fact that particular telecommunications systems may
be used for multiple purposes does not obviate the need to obtain a franchise
for other purposes. By way of illustration and not limitation, a cable operator
of a cable system must obtain a cable franchise, and, should it intend to
provide telecommunications services over the same system, must also obtain a
telecommunications franchise.
   C.   Nature Of Grant: A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or
legal, in the rights of way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights of
way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period
stated in the franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned or
subleased. A franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate
access or pole attachment agreements before collocating its system on the
property of others, including the city's property. This subsection shall not be
construed to prohibit a provider from leasing conduit to another provider, so
long as the lessee has obtained a franchise.
   D.   Current Providers: Except to the extent exempted by federal or state
law, any provider acting without a franchise on the effective date hereof shall
request issuance of a franchise from the city within ninety (90) days of the
effective date hereof. If such a request is made, the provider may continue
providing service during the course of negotiations. If a timely request is not
made, or if negotiations cease and a franchise is not granted, the provider
shall comply with the provisions of subsection
8-1-9D of this chapter.
   E.   Nature Of Franchise: The franchise granted by the city under the
provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise providing the
right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove and replace its system
on, over and under the rights of way in order to provide services.
   F.   Regulatory Approval Needed: Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of
such services from the appropriate federal, state and local authorities, if
required, and shall submit to the city upon the written request of the city
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
   G.   Terms: No franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall have a term
of less than five (5) years or greater than fifteen (15) years. Each franchise
shall be granted in a nondiscriminatory manner. (1984 Code § 5.64.030)
8-1-4: COMPENSATION AND OTHER PAYMENTS:
   A.   Compensation: As fair and reasonable compensation for any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall have the following
obligations:
      1.   Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the city to review
an application for a franchise and in addition to all other fees, permits or
charges, a provider shall pay to the city, at the time of application, as a
nonrefundable application fee as established in the city consolidated fee
schedule.
      2.   Franchise Fees: The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the
franchise agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence on
the completion date. The franchise fee is offset by any business license fee or
business license tax enacted by the city.
      3.   Excavation Permits: The provider shall also pay fees required for an
excavation permit as provided in the excavation permit ordinance, if
applicable.
   B.   Timing: Unless otherwise agreed to in the franchise agreement, all
franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within forty five (45) days of
the close of each calendar month.
   C.   Fee Statement And Certification: Unless a franchise agreement provides
otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the
manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to its
accuracy.
   D.   Future Costs: A provider shall pay to the city or to third parties, at
the direction of the city, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and
reasonable expenses that the city incurs for the services of third parties,
including, but not limited to, attorneys and other consultants, in connection
with any renewal or provider initiated renegotiation, or amendment of this
chapter or a franchise; provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon a
reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations. In the event the
parties are unable to agree, either party may submit the issue to binding
arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of the American
Arbitration Association. Any costs associated with any work to be done by the
power and public works department to provide space on city owned poles shall be
borne by the provider.
   E.   Taxes And Assessments: To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities, other than the city on the use of the city
property as a result of a provider's use or occupation of the rights of way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Interest On Late Payments: In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the city on or before the applicable date fixed in the
franchise, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the
rate charged for delinquent state taxes.
   G.   No Accord And Satisfaction: No acceptance by the city of any fee shall
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount,
nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any
claim the city may have for additional sums payable.
   H.   Not In Lieu Of Other Taxes Or Fees: The fee payment is not a payment in
lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment except as specifically provided in
this chapter, or as required by applicable law. By way of example, and not
limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the city owned
poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   I.   Continuing Obligation And Holdover: In the event a provider continues
to operate all or any part of the system after the term of the franchise, such
operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter and the franchise, including, without limitation, all compensation and
other payment provisions throughout the period of such continued operation;
provided, that any such continued operation shall in no way be construed as a
renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a limitation on the
remedies, if any, available to the city as a result of such continued operation
after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and restitution.
   J.   Costs Of Publication: A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise that may be required by law. (1984 Code §
5.64.040)
8-1-5: FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Franchise Application: To obtain a franchise to construct, own,
maintain or provide services through any system within the city, to obtain a
renewal of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, or to obtain the city
approval of a transfer of a franchise, as provided in subsection
8-1-7A2 of this chapter, granted pursuant to this chapter, an application must
be filed with city on the form attached to ordinance 1-27-98-3 as exhibit A,
which is incorporated by reference. The application form may be changed by the
mayor so long as such changes request information that is consistent with this
chapter. Such application form, as amended, is incorporated by reference.
   B.   Application Criteria: In making a determination as to an application
filed pursuant to this chapter, the city may, but shall not be limited to,
request the following from the provider:
      1.   A copy of the order from the PSC granting a certificate of
convenience and necessity.
      2.   Certification of the provider's financial ability to compensate the
city for provider's intrusion, maintenance and use of the rights of way during
the franchise term proposed by the provider.
      3.   Provider's agreement to comply with the requirements of section
8-1-6 of this chapter.
      4.   Prior to making any attachments to poles, the willingness to enter
into a pole attachment agreement with the city.
   C.   Franchise Determination: The city, in its discretion, shall determine
the award of any franchise on the basis of these and other considerations
relevant to the use of the rights of way, without competitive bidding. (1984
Code § 5.64.050)
8-1-6: CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirement: No provider shall receive a franchise unless it
agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this section governing
construction and technical requirements for its system, in addition to any
other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the city or the
franchise, including requirements regarding locating and sharing in the cost of
locating portions of the system with other systems or with city utilities. A
provider shall obtain an excavation permit, pursuant to the excavation
ordinance, if applicable before commencing any work in the rights of way.
   B.   Quality: All work involved in the construction, maintenance, repair,
upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a safe, thorough and
reliable manner using materials of good and durable quality. If, at any time,
it is determined by the FCC or any other agency granted authority by federal
law or the FCC to make such determination, that any part of the system,
including, without limitation, any means used to distribute signals over or
within the system, is harmful to the public health, safety or welfare, or
quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   C.   Licenses And Permits: A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or
other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, maintain,
upgrade or repair the system, including, but not limited to, any necessary
approvals from persons and/or the city to use private property, easements,
poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval or authorization, including, but not limited to, excavation permits,
pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the commencement of the activity for
which the permit, license, approval or authorization is required.
   D.   Relocation Of The System:
      1.   New Grades Or Lines: If the grades or lines of any rights of way are
changed at any time in a manner affecting the system, then a provider shall
comply with the requirements of the excavation ordinance, if applicable.
      2.   City Authority To Move System In Case Of Emergency: The city may, at
any time, in case of fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the
city in its reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and
appurtenances on, over or under the rights of way of the city, in which event
the city shall not be liable therefor to a provider. The city shall notify a
provider in writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as
possible and in no case later than the next business day following any action
taken under this section. Notice shall be given as provided in subsection
8-1-11D of this chapter.
      3.   Provider Required To Temporarily Move System For Third Party: A
provider shall, upon prior reasonable written notice by the city or any person
holding a permit to move any structure, and within the time that is reasonable
under the circumstances, temporarily move any part of its system to permit the
moving of such structure. A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any
person other than the city for any such movement of its systems.
      4.   Rights Of Way Change; Obligation To Move System: When the city is
changing a right of way and makes a written request, a provider is required to
move or remove its system from the right of way, without cost to the city, to
the extent provided in the excavation ordinance, if applicable. This obligation
does not apply to systems originally located on private property pursuant to a
private easement, which property was later incorporated into the right of way,
if that private easement grants a superior vested right. This obligation exists
whether or not the provider has obtained an excavation permit.
   E.   Protect Structures: In connection with the construction, maintenance,
repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to the city and all
designated landmarks, as well as all other structures within any designated
landmark district. A provider shall obtain the prior written consent of the
city to alter any water main, power facility, sewerage or drainage system, or
any other municipal structure on, over or under the rights of way of the city
required because of the presence of the system. Any such alteration shall be
made by the city or its designee on a reimbursable basis. A provider agrees
that it shall be liable for the costs incurred by the city to replace or repair
and restore to its prior condition in a manner as may be reasonably specified
by the city, any municipal structure or any other rights of way of the city
involved in the construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the
system that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of any work thereon by
or on behalf of a provider pursuant to the franchise.
   F.   No Obstruction: In connection with the construction, maintenance,
upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not unreasonably
obstruct the rights of way of fixed guideway systems, railways, passenger
travel, or other traffic to, from or within the city without the prior consent
of the appropriate authorities.
   G.   Safety Precautions: A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. A provider shall comply
with all applicable federal, state and local requirements including, but not
limited to, the national electrical safety code.
   H.   Repair: After written reasonable notice to the provider, unless, in the
sole determination of the city, an imminent danger exists, any rights of way
within the city which are disturbed or damaged during the construction,
maintenance or reconstruction by a provider of its system may be repaired by
the city at the provider's expense, to a condition as good as that prevailing
before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the city shall submit to such a
provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and restoring the
rights of way intruded upon. The provider shall, within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the statement, pay to the city the entire amount thereof.
   I.   System Maintenance: A provider shall:
      1.   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a nondangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise.
      2.   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the national
electrical safety code and all other applicable federal, state and local laws
or regulations.
      3.   At all reasonable times, permit examinations by any duly authorized
representative of the city of the system and its effect on the rights of way.
   J.   Trimming Of Trees: A provider shall have the authority to trim trees,
in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and easement
restrictions, upon and hanging over rights of way so as to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with its system. (1984 Code § 5.64.060)
8-1-7: FRANCHISE AND LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   Notification Of Sale:
      1.   Notification And Election: When a provider is the subject of a sale,
transfer, lease, assignment, sublease or disposal of, in whole or in part,
either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or
otherwise, such that it or its successor entity is obligated to inform or seek
the approval of the PSC, the provider or its successor entity shall promptly
notify the city of the nature of the transaction. The notification shall
include either:
         a.   The successor entity's certification that the successor entity
unequivocally agrees to all of the terms of the original provider's franchise
agreement; or
         b.   The successor entity's application in compliance with section
8-1-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Transfer Of Franchise: Upon receipt of a notification and
certification in accordance with subsection A1a of this section, the city
designee, as provided in subsection
8-1-9A1 of this chapter, shall send notice affirming the transfer of the
franchise to the successor entity. If the city has good cause to believe that
the successor entity may not comply with this chapter or the franchise
agreement, it may require an application for the transfer. The application
shall comply with section
8-1-5 of this chapter.
      3.   If PSC Approval No Longer Required: If the PSC no longer exists, or
if its regulations or state law no longer require approval of transactions
described in subsection A of this section, and the city has good cause to
believe that the successor entity may not comply with this chapter or the
franchise agreement, it may require an application. The application shall
comply with section
8-1-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Events Of Sale: The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of the franchise requiring compliance with
subsection A of this section: 1) the sale, assignment or other transfer of all
or a majority of a provider's assets to another person; 2) the sale, assignment
or other transfer of capital stock or partnership, membership or other equity
interests in a provider by one or more of its existing shareholders, partners,
members or other equity owners so as to create a new controlling interest in a
provider; 3) the issuance of additional capital stock or partnership,
membership or other equity interest by a provider so as to create a new
controlling interest in such a provider; or 4) the entry by a provider into an
agreement with respect to the management or operation of such provider or its
system. (1984 Code § 5.64.070)
8-1-8: OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION:
   A.   Insurance, Indemnity And Security: Prior to the execution of a
franchise, a provider will deposit with the city an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit or surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and
shall obtain and provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the
franchise. A provider shall also indemnify the city as set forth in the
franchise.
   B.   Oversight: The city shall have the right to oversee, regulate and
inspect periodically the construction, maintenance and upgrade of the system,
and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the franchise and
applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain managerial and
operational records, standards, procedures and controls to enable a provider to
prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the city at all times
throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with the franchise. A
provider shall retain such records for not less than the applicable statute of
limitations.
   C.   Maintain Records: A provider shall at all times maintain:
      1.   On file with the city, a full and complete set of plans, records and
as built hard copy maps and, to the extent the maps are placed in an electronic
format, they shall be made in electronic format compatible with the city's
existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the types
of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights of way,
property identified and described as to the types of equipment and facility by
appropriate symbols and marks which shall include annotations of all rights of
way where work will be undertaken. As used herein, as built maps include "file
construction prints". Maps shall be drawn to scale. As built maps, including
the compatible electronic format, as provided above, shall be submitted within
thirty (30) days of completion of work or within thirty (30) days after
completion of modification and repairs. As built maps are not required of the
provider who is the incumbent local exchange carrier for the existing system to
the extent they do not exist.
      2.   Throughout the term of the franchise, a provider shall maintain
complete and accurate books of account and records of the business, ownership
and operations of a provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows
the city at all times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the
franchise. Should the city reasonably determine that the records are not being
maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the
books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance
with this section. All financial books and records which are maintained in
accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that
regulates utilities in the state, and generally accepted accounting principles,
shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section.
   D.   Confidentiality: If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by federal, state or local
law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall be classified as
a protected record within the meaning of the Utah government records access and
management act ("GRAMA"), making it available only to those who must access to
perform their duties on behalf of the city; provided, that a provider notifies
the city of, and clearly labels, the information which a provider deems to be
confidential, proprietary information. Such notification and labeling shall be
the sole responsibility of the provider.
   E.   Provider's Expense: All reports and records required under this chapter
shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter or a franchise.
   F.   Right Of Inspection Or Audit: For the purpose of verifying the correct
amount of the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining
thereto shall be open to inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives
of the city at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the
intention to inspect or audit the books and records; provided, that the city
shall not audit the books and records of the provider more often than annually.
The provider agrees to reimburse the city the reasonable costs of an audit if
the audit discloses that the provider has paid ninety five percent (95%) or
less of the compensation due the city for the period of such audit. In the
event the accounting rendered to the city by the provider herein is found to be
incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount within thirty
(30) calendar days of written notice, it being agreed that the city may accept
any amount offered by the provider, but the acceptance thereof by the city
shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount is in dispute or is
later found to be incorrect. (1984 Code § 5.64.080)
8-1-9: RIGHTS OF CITY:
   A.   Enforcement And Remedies:
      1.   Enforcement; City Designee: The city is responsible for enforcing
and administering this chapter, and the city or its designee, as appointed by
the mayor, is authorized to give any notice required by law or under any
franchise agreement.
      2.   Enforcement Provision: Any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation and
protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures for
accessing the bond/security fund, and rights of termination or revocation.
   B.   Force Majeure: In the event a provider's performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this chapter or a franchise is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider's control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes or events
not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation, acts of
God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of
utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural disasters, such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides and fires.
   C.   Extended Operation And Continuity Of Services:
      1.   Continuation After Expiration: Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the city shall have discretion
to permit a provider to continue to operate its system or provide services for
an extended period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its system under
the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter.
      2.   Continuation By Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier: If the provider is
the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   D.   Removal Or Abandonment Of Franchise Property:
      1.   Abandoned System: In the event that: a) the use of any portion of
the system is discontinued for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, and
thirty (30) days after no response to written notice from the city to the last
known address of provider; b) any system has been installed in the rights of
way without complying with the requirements of this chapter or franchise; or c)
the provisions of subsection 8-1-3B of this chapter are applicable and no
franchise is granted, a provider, except the provider who is an incumbent local
exchange carrier, shall be deemed to have abandoned such system.
      2.   Removal Of Abandoned System: The city, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system, or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time the
abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights of way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights of way in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The city shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights of way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
chapter and any security fund provided in a franchise shall continue in full
force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a
provider with the terms and conditions of this section.
      3.   Transfer Of Abandoned System To City: Upon abandonment of any system
in place, a provider, if required by the city, shall submit to the city a
written instrument, satisfactory in form to the city, transferring to the city
the ownership of the abandoned system.
      4.   Removal Of Aboveground System: At the expiration of the term for
which a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this chapter, in any such case without renewal, extension or
transfer, the city shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its
expense, all aboveground portions of a system from the rights of way within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one hundred eighty
(180) days. If the provider is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall
not be required to remove its system, but shall negotiate a renewal in good
faith.
      5.   Leaving Underground System: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth in this chapter, a provider may abandon any underground system in
place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the rights of
way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or other
person. (1984 Code § 5.64.090)
8-1-10: OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY; PUBLICIZING WORK:
Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good faith
attempt to contact the property owners in advance, and describe the work to be
performed. (1984 Code § 5.64.100)
8-1-11: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conflicts: In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this chapter
in effect at the time the franchise is entered into shall control.
   B.   Severability: If any provision of this chapter is held by any federal,
state or local court of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting
with any federal or state statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in
any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law and all
appellate remedies with regard to the validity of the ordinance provisions in
question are exhausted, such provision shall be considered a separate,
distinct, and independent part of this chapter, and such holding shall not
affect the validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the
event that such law is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise
changed, so that the provision which had been held invalid or modified is no
longer in conflict with such law the provision in question shall return to full
force and effect and shall again be binding on the city and the provider;
provided, that the city shall give the provider thirty (30) days, or a longer
period of time as may be reasonably required for a provider to comply with such
a rejuvenated provision, written notice of the change, before requiring
compliance with such provision.
   C.   New Developments: It shall be the policy of the city to liberally amend
this chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable the
provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently or economically serve itself or the public.
   D.   Notices: All notices from a provider to the city required under this
chapter, or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, shall be
directed to the officer as designated by the mayor. A provider shall provide in
any application for a franchise the identity, address and phone number to
receive notices from the city. A provider shall immediately notify the city of
any change in its name, address, or telephone number.
   E.   Exercise Of Police Power: To the full extent permitted by applicable
law either now or in the future, the city reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders, or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers. (1984 Code § 5.64.110)
8-1-12: FEDERAL, STATE AND CITY JURISDICTION:
   A.   Construction: This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent
with all applicable federal and state statutes.
   B.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all franchises granted or
renewed after the effective date hereof. This chapter shall further apply, to
the extent permitted by applicable federal or state law, to all existing
franchises granted prior to the effective date hereof and to a provider
providing services, without a franchise, prior to the effective date hereof.
   C.   Other Applicable Ordinances: A provider's rights are subject to the
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to its
police powers. In particular, all providers shall comply with the city zoning
and other land use requirements.
   D.   City Failure To Enforce: A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter by reason of any failure of the city
to enforce prompt compliance.
   E.   Construed According To State Law: This chapter and any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance
with the substantive laws of the state. (1984 Code § 5.64.120)
CHAPTER 1A
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
Article I. Declaration Of Findings And Intent - Scope Of Chapter
8-1A-1: Findings
8-1A-2: Scope Of Chapter
8-1A-3: Excluded Activity
Article II. Defined Terms
8-1A-4: Definitions
Article III. Wireless Franchise Required
8-1A-5: Every Provider Shall Obtain Franchise
8-1A-6: Current Providers
8-1A-7: Regulatory Approval Needed
Article IV. Fees And Other Payments
8-1A-8: Fees And Compensation
8-1A-9: Timing
8-1A-10: Fee Statement And Certification
8-1A-11: Future Costs
8-1A-12: Taxes And Assessments
8-1A-13: Interest On Late Payments
8-1A-14: No Accord And Satisfaction
8-1A-15: Not In Lieu Of Other Taxes Or Fees
8-1A-16: Continuing Obligation And Holdover
8-1A-17: Costs Of Publication
Article V. Franchise Applications
8-1A-18: Franchise Application
Article VI. Site Applications
8-1A-19: Franchise Necessary
8-1A-20: Site Preference
8-1A-21: Poles Adjacent To Residential Properties
8-1A-22: Height And Size Restrictions
8-1A-23: Safety
8-1A-24: Equipment
8-1A-25: Undergrounding
8-1A-26: Visual Impact
8-1A-27: Stealth Design/Technology
8-1A-28: Lighting
8-1A-29: Signage
8-1A-30: Site Design Flexibility
8-1A-31: General Requirements
8-1A-32: Application Review Process
8-1A-33: Application Consolidation And Submission Limit
8-1A-34: Expired Application
8-1A-35: Site Permit Approval
8-1A-36: Site Permit Renewal
8-1A-37: Exemptions
8-1A-38: Exceptions To Standards
8-1A-39: Application To Install A Macrocell Or Nonpermitted Utility Pole
Article VII. Construction And Technical Requirements
8-1A-40: General Requirement
8-1A-41: Quality
8-1A-42: Licenses And Permits
8-1A-43: Relocation Of The System
8-1A-44: Protect Structures
8-1A-45: No Obstruction
8-1A-46: Safety Precautions
8-1A-47: Damage And Repair
Article VIII. Provider Responsibilities
8-1A-48: System Maintenance
8-1A-49: Trimming Of Trees
8-1A-50: Inventory Of Existing Sites
Article IX. Oversight And Regulation
8-1A-51: Insurance, Indemnity, And Security
8-1A-52: Oversight
8-1A-53: Maintain Records
8-1A-54: Confidentiality
8-1A-55: Provider's Expense
8-1A-56: Right Of Inspection
Article X. Rights Of City
8-1A-57: Enforcement And Remedies
8-1A-58: Force Majeure
8-1A-59: Extended Operation And Continuity Of Services
8-1A-60: Removal Or Abandonment Of Wireless Franchise Property
Article XI. Obligation To Notify
8-1A-61: Publicizing Work
Article XII. General Provisions
8-1A-62: Conflicts
8-1A-63: Severability
8-1A-64: New Developments
8-1A-65: Notices
8-1A-66: Exercise Of Police Power
Article XIII. Federal, State And City Jurisdiction
8-1A-67: Interpretation
8-1A-68: Chapter Applicability
8-1A-69: Other Applicable Ordinances
8-1A-70: City Failure To Enforce
8-1A-71: Construed According To Utah Law
ARTICLE I. DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND INTENT - SCOPE OF CHAPTER
8-1A-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   Findings Regarding Rights-Of-Way: Lehi City finds that rights- of-way
within the City:
      1.   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the business and social life of the City;
      2.   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
      3.   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and other
public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered for
profit to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general economic well-
being of the City and its citizens; and
      4.   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the uses stated in this chapter and to minimize the inconvenience
to and negative effects upon the public from such facilities' construction,
placement, relocation, and maintenance in the right-of-way.
   B.   Finding Regarding Compensation: The City finds the right to occupy
portions of the right-of-way for limited times for the business of providing
personal wireless services is a valuable use of a unique public resource that
has been acquired and is maintained at great expense to the City and its
taxpayers, and, therefore, the taxpayers of the City should receive fair and
reasonable compensation for use of the right-of-way.
   C.   Finding Regarding Local Concern: The City finds that while wireless
communication facilities are in part an extension of interstate commerce, their
operations also involve rights-of-way, Municipal franchising, and vital
business and community service, which are of local concern.
   D.   Finding Regarding Promotion Of Wireless Communication Services: The
City finds that it is in the best interests of its taxpayers and citizens to
promote the rapid development of wireless communication services on a
nondiscriminatory basis, responsive to community and public interest, and to
assure availability for Municipal, educational and community services.
   E.   Findings Regarding Franchise Standards: The City finds that it is in
the interests of the public to franchise and to establish standards for
franchising providers in a manner that:
      1.   Fairly and reasonably compensates the City on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided in this chapter;
      2.   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under
which providers may use the rights-of-way to serve the public;
      3.   Fully protects the public interests and the City from any harm that
may flow from such commercial use of rights-of-way;
      4.   Protects the police powers and right-of-way management authority of
the City, in a manner consistent with Federal and State law;
      5.   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and use
of the City's infrastructure;
      6.   Protects the public's investment in improvements in the right- of-
way; and
      7.   Ensures that no barriers to entry of providers are created and that
franchising is accomplished in a manner that does not prohibit or have the
effect of prohibiting personal wireless services, within the meaning of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 ("Act") (PL No. 96-104).
   F.   Power To Manage Right-Of-Way: The City adopts this chapter pursuant to
its power to manage the rights-of-way by authority of the common law, the Utah
Constitution, and statutory authority, and to receive fair and reasonable
compensation for the use of the rights-of-way by providers as expressly set
forth by section 253 of the Act. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-2: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
This chapter shall provide the basic local framework for providers of wireless
services and systems that require the use of rights-of-way, including providers
of both the system and service, providers of the system only, and providers who
do not build the system but who only provide services. This chapter shall apply
to all future providers and to all providers in the City prior to the effective
date of this chapter, whether operating with or without a telecommunications
franchise as set forth in section
8-1A-68 of this chapter. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-3: EXCLUDED ACTIVITY:
   A.   Cable TV: This chapter shall not apply to cable television operators
otherwise regulated by title 4, chapter 2, article A of this Code or to open
video system providers otherwise regulated.
   B.   Wireline Services: This chapter shall not apply to wireline service
facilities.
   C.   Provisions Applicable: All of the requirements imposed by this chapter
through the exercise of the City's police power and which are not preempted by
other law shall be applicable to wireless communications facilities. (Ord. 77-
2018, 8-28-2018)
ARTICLE II. DEFINED TERMS
8-1A-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ACT: Means the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (PL No. 96-104).
ANTENNA: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101(1), as amended.
APPLICABLE CODES: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101(2), as
amended.
APPLICABLE STANDARDS: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101(3),
as amended.
APPLICANT: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101(4), as amended.
APPLICATION: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101(5), as
amended.
BACKHAUL NETWORK: Means the lines that connect a provider's WCFs to one or more
cellular telephone switching offices or long distance providers, or the public
switched telephone network.
CITY: Means Lehi City, Utah.
COLLOCATE: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101(11), as amended.
Except as otherwise allowed by this chapter, the cumulative impact of
colocation at a site is limited to no more than six (6) cubic feet in volume
for antennas and antenna arrays, and no more than twenty eight (28) cubic feet
in volume of associated equipment, whether deployed on the ground or on the
structure itself.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS: Means all costs of constructing a system, including make
ready costs, other than engineering fees, attorney's or accountant's fees, or
other consulting fees.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Means actual working control in whatever
manner exercised, including, without limitation, working control through
ownership, management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may
be, of the system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence
of control or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership,
directly or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert,
of more than thirty five percent (35%) of any provider, which person or group
of persons is hereinafter referred to as "controlling person". "Control" or
"controlling interest" as used herein may be held simultaneously by more than
one person or group of persons.
DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM OR DAS: Means a network consisting of transceiver
equipment at a central hub site to support multiple antenna locations
throughout the desired coverage area.
FAA: Means the Federal Aviation Administration.
FCC: Means the Federal Communications Commission, or any successor thereto.
FRANCHISE: Means the rights and obligations extended by the City to a provider
to own, lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a wireless communication
system in the right-of-way within the boundaries of the City. Any such
authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean or include: a) any
other permit or authorization required for the privilege of transacting and
carrying on a business within the City required by the laws of the City; b) any
other permit, agreement or authorization required in connection with operations
on rights-of-way or other public property including, without limitation,
permits and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits or other
structures, whether owned by the City or a private entity, or for excavating or
performing other work in or along the right-of-way.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: Means a contract entered into in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter between the City and a provider that sets forth,
subject to this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a wireless
franchise will be exercised.
IN-STRAND ANTENNA: Means an antenna that is suspended by or along a wireline
between utility poles and is not physically supported by any attachments to a
base station, utility support structure, or tower. An in-strand antenna may not
exceed three (3) cubic feet in volume. For each in-strand antenna, its
associated equipment, whether deployed on the ground or on the structure
itself, shall not be larger than seventeen (17) cubic feet in volume. In
calculating equipment volume, the volume of power meters and vertical cable
runs for the connection of power and other services shall be excluded.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Means a person providing to another, for the purpose
of providing personal wireless services to customers, all or part of the
necessary system which uses the right-of-way.
MACROCELL: Means a wireless communication facility that provides radio
frequency coverage served by a high power cell site, including a tower, antenna
or mast. Generally, macrocell antennas are mounted on ground-based towers,
rooftops and other existing structures, at a height that provides a clear view
over the surrounding buildings and terrain. Macrocell facilities are typically
greater than three (3) cubic feet per antenna and typically cover large
geographic areas with relatively high capacity and are capable of hosting
multiple wireless service providers. For purposes of this chapter, a macrocell
is anything other than a small cell or in-strand antenna. In addition to the
requirements found in this chapter, a macrocell shall comply with the
applicable zoning and use requirements as a "telecommunications facility".
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101
(21).
ORDINANCE OR WIRELESS ORDINANCE: Means the ordinance concerning the granting of
wireless franchises in and by the City for the construction, ownership,
operation, use or maintenance of a wireless communication system.
PSC: Means the Public Service Commission, or any successor thereto.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust, or any other legal entity, but not the City.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES: Has the same meaning as provided in
section 704 of the Act (47 USC section 332(c)(7)(c)), which includes what is
commonly known as cellular services.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101(24), as
amended.
SITE: Means the location in the right-of-way of a wireless communication
facility, a utility pole, or their associated equipment.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101
(35), as amended.
STEALTH DESIGN: Means technology or installation methods that minimize the
visual impact of wireless communication facilities by camouflaging, disguising,
screening or blending into the surrounding environment. Examples of stealth
design include but are not limited to facilities disguised as trees, monopines,
utility and light poles, and street furniture.
SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101
(26), as amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Means the transmission, between or among points specified
by the user, of information of the user's choosing including data, video, and
voice, without change in the form or content of the information sent and
received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES OR SERVICES: Means any telecommunications or
communications services provided by a provider within the City that the
provider is authorized to provide under Federal, State and local law, and any
equipment or facilities required for and integrated with the services provided
within the City, except that these terms do not include "cable service" as
defined in the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 USC section 521,
et seq.), and the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: Means all conduits, manholes, poles,
antennas, transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment,
wire and appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a provider, located in the
right-of-way and utilized in the provision of services, including fully digital
or analog, voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced telecommunications
services.
TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT: Means equipment that facilitates transmission for any
FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but not
limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, and
regular and backup power supply. The term includes equipment associated with
wireless communications services including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
UTILITY POLE OR POLE: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101(28),
as amended.
WIRE: Means fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
WIRELESS FACILITY OR WCF: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101
(29).
WIRELESS PROVIDER OR PROVIDER: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-
101(31), as amended.
WIRELESS SERVICE: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101(32), as
amended.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101
(34), as amended. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
ARTICLE III. WIRELESS FRANCHISE REQUIRED
8-1A-5: EVERY PROVIDER SHALL OBTAIN FRANCHISE:
Except to the extent preempted by Federal or State law, every provider shall
obtain a telecommunications franchise prior to constructing, operating,
leasing, or subleasing a wireless communication system or providing wireless
service using the right-of-way. The fact that particular telecommunications
systems may be used for multiple purposes does not preclude the need to obtain
a franchise for the other purposes. By way of illustration and not limitation,
a cable operator of a cable system must obtain a cable franchise, and, should
it intend to provide wireless services over the same system, must also obtain a
wireless franchise. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-6: CURRENT PROVIDERS:
Except to the extent exempted by Federal or State law, any provider acting
without a telecommunications franchise on the effective date of this section
shall request issuance of a wireless franchise from the City within ninety (90)
days of the effective date of this section. If such request is made, the
provider may continue providing service during the course of negotiations. If a
timely request is not made, or if negotiations cease and a wireless franchise
is not granted, the provider shall comply with the provisions of section 8-1A-
68 of this chapter. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-7: REGULATORY APPROVAL NEEDED:
Before offering or providing any services pursuant to the telecommunications
franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory approvals, permits,
authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of such services from
the appropriate Federal, State and local authorities, if required, and shall
submit to the City upon the written request of the City evidence of all such
approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
ARTICLE IV. FEES AND OTHER PAYMENTS
8-1A-8: FEES AND COMPENSATION:
   A.   Application Fees: Each provider shall pay the following application
fees for the respective applications in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
section 54-21-503, as amended:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for each small wireless facility;
      2.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each utility pole associated
with a small wireless facility; and
      3.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each utility pole or WCF that
is not permitted under Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-204, as amended.
   B.   Right-Of-Way Rate: Each provider shall pay a right-of-way rate of the
greater of 3.5 percent of all gross revenues related to the provider's use of
the City's right-of-way for small wireless facilities or two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) annually for each small wireless facility in accordance with
Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-502(2). A provider does not have to pay this
rate if it is subject to the Municipal Telecommunications License Tax under
title 10, part 4, Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act.
   C.   Permit Fees: Each provider shall also pay fees required for any permit
necessary to install and maintain the proposed WCF or utility pole.
   D.   Authority Pole Collocation Rate: The City adopts the authority pole
collocation rate as established in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-504, as
amended. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-9: TIMING:
All right-of-way rates shall be paid in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
section 54-21-502, as amended. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-10: FEE STATEMENT AND CERTIFICATION:
Each rate payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the manner in
which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to its accuracy. (Ord.
77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-11: FUTURE COSTS:
Each provider shall pay to the City or to third parties, at the direction of
the City, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and reasonable expenses that
the City incurs for the services of third parties, including but not limited to
attorneys and other consultants, in connection with any renewal or provider-
initiated renegotiation, transfer, amendment, or a wireless franchise;
provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon a reasonable financial cap
at the outset of negotiations. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-12: TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS:
To the extent taxes or other assessments are imposed by taxing authorities
other than the City on the use of the City property as a result of a provider's
use or occupation of the right-of- way, each provider shall be responsible for
payment of its pro rata share of such taxes, payable annually unless otherwise
required by the taxing authority. Such payments shall be in addition to any
other fees payable pursuant to this chapter to the extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-13: INTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS:
In the event that any payment is not actually received by the City on or before
the applicable date fixed in the wireless franchise, interest thereon shall
accrue from such date until received at the rate charged for delinquent State
Taxes. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-14: NO ACCORD AND SATISFACTION:
Acceptance by the City of any rate or fee shall not be construed as an accord
that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance
of such fee payment be construed as a release of any claim the City may have
for additional sums payable. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-15: NOT IN LIEU OF OTHER TAXES OR FEES:
A rate or fee payment is not a payment in lieu of any tax, fee or other
assessment except as specifically provided in this chapter, or as required by
applicable law. By way of example, and not limitation, excavation permit fees
are not waived and remain applicable. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-16: CONTINUING OBLIGATION AND HOLDOVER:
In the event a provider continues to operate all or any part of the system
after the term of the franchise, such operator shall continue to comply with
all applicable provisions of this chapter and the franchise, including, without
limitation, all compensation and other payment provisions throughout the period
of such continued operation; provided, that any such continued operation shall
in no way be construed as a renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as
a limitation on the remedies, if any, available to the City as a result of such
continued operation after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and
restitution. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-17: COSTS OF PUBLICATION:
Each provider shall assume any publication costs associated with its franchise
that may be required by law. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
ARTICLE V. FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS
8-1A-18: FRANCHISE APPLICATION:
To obtain a franchise to construct, own, maintain or provide services through
any wireless system within the City's right-of- way, to obtain a renewal of a
franchise granted, or to obtain the City approval of a transfer of a franchise
granted, an application shall be filed with City pursuant to chapter 1 of this
title. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
ARTICLE VI. SITE APPLICATIONS
8-1A-19: FRANCHISE NECESSARY:
Prior to the City approving a site permit, the applicant shall have a valid
franchise agreement granted pursuant to chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 77-2018,
8-28-2018)
8-1A-20: SITE PREFERENCE:
When small wireless facilities are to be constructed in the rights-of-way, the
City's order of preference is for a provider:
   A.   To install in-strand antennas;
   B.   To collocate on existing poles;
   C.   To collocate on replacement poles in the same or nearly the same
location and with such heights as provided in this chapter or in the franchise;
and lastly
   D.   To collocate on new poles. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-21: POLES ADJACENT TO RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES:
In accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-103(6), as amended, a
provider shall not install a new utility pole in a right-of-way if the right-
of-way is adjacent to a street or thoroughfare that is:
   A.   Sixty feet (60') wide or less, as depicted on the official plat
records; and
   B.   Adjacent to single-family residential lots, other multifamily
residences, or undeveloped land that is designated for residential use by
zoning or deed restrictions. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-22: HEIGHT AND SIZE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The height of a new or modified utility pole including a collocated WCF
shall not exceed fifty feet (50') above the ground level.
   B.   For a utility pole existing on or before September 1, 2018, an antenna
of a WCF shall not extend more than ten feet (10') above the top of the utility
pole.
   C.   A small wireless facility and its associated equipment shall not exceed
the dimensions set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-101(25), as
amended. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-23: SAFETY:
A WCF, pole, cabinet, or other equipment shall not violate the requirements in
Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-302, as amended. A small wireless facility,
pole, cabinet, and other equipment may not:
   A.   Materially interfere with the safe operation of traffic control
equipment;
   B.   Materially interfere with a sight line or clear zone for vehicular or
pedestrian traffic;
   C.   Materially interfere with compliance with the Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 USC section 12101 et seq., or a similar Federal or
State standard regarding pedestrian access or movement;
   D.   Create a public health or safety hazard;
   E.   Obstruct or hinder the usual travel or public safety of the right-of-
way; or
   F.   Violate any applicable law or legal obligation. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-
2018)
8-1A-24: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Due to the limited size of the City's rights-of-way, applicants shall
be required to install any equipment associated with a small wireless facility
according to the requirements in this section to the extent operationally and
technically feasible and to the extent permitted by law.
      1.   Existing Utility Poles: If a WCF is collocated on an existing
utility pole, the WCF's associated equipment may be installed in one of the
following methods:
         a.   Within A Pole: Any equipment installed within a pole may not
protrude from the pole except to the extent reasonably necessary to connect to
power or a wireline.
         b.   On A Pole: Any equipment enclosure installed on a pole shall:
            (1)   Be flush with the pole;
            (2)   Be painted to reasonably match the color of the pole;
            (3)   Not exceed in width the diameter of the pole by more than
three inches (3") on either side;
            (4)   Not allow the furthest point of the enclosure to extend more
than eighteen inches (18") from the pole; and
            (5)   Be installed flush with the grade or, alternatively, the
lowest point shall not be lower than eight feet (8') from the grade directly
below the equipment enclosure.
         c.   Underground: Any equipment installed underground shall be located
in a park strip within the City's right-of-way and shall be installed and
maintained level with the surrounding grade.
         d.   Private Property: Any equipment installed on private property
shall include prior written permission from the property owner allowing the
applicant to locate facilities on the property. If equipment is placed in an
enclosure, the enclosure shall be designed to blend in with existing
surroundings, using architecturally compatible construction and colors, and
landscaping and shall be located as unobtrusively as possible consistent with
the proper functioning of the WCF. Equipment placed on private property shall
be subject to City zoning requirements.
      2.   Replacement Utility Poles: If a WCF is collocated on a replacement
utility pole, the WCF's associated equipment shall be installed in the
following manner:
         a.   To the extent technologically and economically feasible, a
provider shall install the WCF's associated equipment within the replacement
utility pole in accordance with subsection A1a of this section.
         b.   If the installation of the WCF's equipment within the replacement
utility pole is technologically or economically infeasible, a provider shall
install the WCF's associated equipment in accordance with any of the methods
established in subsections A1b through A1d of this section.
      3.   New Utility Poles: If a WCF is collocated on a new utility pole, a
provider shall install the WCF's associated equipment within the pole in
accordance with subsection A1a or A1d of this section.
   B.   As required for the operation of a WCF or its equipment, an electric
meter may be installed in accordance with requirements from the electric
provider; provided, that the electric meter shall be installed in the location
that: 1) minimizes its interference with other users of the City's right-of-way
including, but not limited to, pedestrians, motorists, and other entities with
equipment in the right-of-way, and 2) minimizes its aesthetic impact.
   C.   The City shall not provide an exemption to these requirements when
there is insufficient room in the right-of-way to place facilities at ground-
level and comply with ADA requirements, public safety concerns for pedestrians,
cyclists, and motorists, or other articulable public safety concerns. (Ord. 77-
2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-25: UNDERGROUNDING:
A provider shall underground its equipment in accordance with the Lehi City
Development Code, and Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-207, as amended. (Ord.
77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-26: VISUAL IMPACT:
   A.   Minimization: All WCFs shall be sited and designed to minimize adverse
visual impacts on surrounding properties and the traveling public to the
greatest extent reasonably possible within one hundred feet (100') of a site
and consistent with the proper functioning of the WCF.
   B.   Integration: WCFs and equipment shall be integrated through location
and design to blend in with the existing characteristics of the site. Such WCFs
shall be designed to be compatible with the built environment through matching
and complementary existing structures and specific design considerations such
as architectural designs, height, scale, color and texture or be consistent
with other uses and improvements permitted in the relevant vicinity.
   C.   Decorative Poles: If a provider must displace a decorative pole to
collocate a small wireless facility, the replacement pole shall reasonably
conform to the design aesthetic of the displaced decorative pole.
   D.   Design/Historic Districts: Subject to Utah Code Annotated section 54-
21-208, a provider's design and location shall be approved prior to collocating
a new small wireless facility or installing a new utility pole in the following
zones:
      1.   Historic Commercial Zone (HC) and any neighboring area within a one-
fourth (1/4) mile; and
      2.   Transit-Oriented Development Zone (TOD). (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-27: STEALTH DESIGN/TECHNOLOGY:
   A.   Stealth design is required and concealment techniques must be
appropriate given the proposed location, design, visual environment, and nearby
uses, structures, and natural features. Stealth design shall be designed and
constructed to substantially conform to surrounding utility poles, light poles,
or other similar support structures in the rights-of-way so the WCF is visually
unobtrusive.
   B.   Stealth design requires screening WCFs in order to reduce visual
impact. The provider shall screen all substantial portions of the facility from
view. Such screening shall match the color and be of similar finish of the
attached support structure.
   C.   WCFs and their associated equipment shall be installed flush with any
pole or support structure, including antennas mounted directly above the top of
an existing pole or support structure, and the furthest point of an antenna or
equipment shall not extend beyond eighteen inches (18") from the pole or
support structure except if the pole owner requires use of a standoff to comply
with Federal, State, or local rules, regulations, or laws. Any required
standoff may not defeat stealth design and concealment techniques.
   D.   Stealth and concealment techniques do not include incorporating faux-
tree designs of a kind that are not native to the State. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-
2018)
8-1A-28: LIGHTING:
Only such lighting as is necessary to satisfy FAA requirements is permitted.
White strobe lighting shall not be allowed, unless specifically required by the
FAA. Security lighting for the equipment shelters or cabinets and other on the
ground ancillary equipment is permitted, as long as it is appropriately down
shielded to keep light within the boundaries of the site. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-
2018)
8-1A-29: SIGNAGE:
Facilities shall not bear any signage or advertisement except as permitted in
this chapter. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-30: SITE DESIGN FLEXIBILITY:
Individual WCF sites vary in the location of adjacent buildings, existing
trees, topography and other local variables. By mandating certain design
standards, there may result a project that could have been less intrusive if
the location of the various elements of the project could have been placed in
more appropriate locations within the right-of-way. Therefore, the WCF and
supporting equipment shall be installed so as to best camouflage, disguise
them, or conceal them, to make the WCF more closely compatible with and blend
into the setting or host structure, to minimize the visual impact of the WCF,
supporting equipment, and equipment enclosures on neighboring properties, or to
interfere less with pedestrians, cyclists, motorists, and other users of the
rights-of-way upon approval by the City. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-31: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
All wireless communication facilities and utility poles shall be required to
obtain a site permit and shall be subject to the site development standards
prescribed in this chapter. Every site permit application, regardless of type,
shall contain the applicant's name and contact information, sufficient
information to show and explain what is proposed to happen at the site, and
provide an industry standard pole load analysis. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-32: APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Review For Completeness: Upon receiving an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility or a new, modified, or replacement
utility pole, the City shall determine within thirty (30) days if the
application is complete. The City shall notify the applicant whether the
application is complete.
   B.   Incomplete Application: If the City determines the application is
incomplete:
      1.   The City shall identify the missing information in the written
notification to the applicant; and
      2.   The review deadline in subsection A of this section shall be tolled
from the day that the City sends the applicant written notice of the missing
information or as the applicant and the City agree.
   C.   Shot Clocks: The City shall approve or deny a complete application
within:
      1.   Thirty (30) days for the installation of an in-strand antenna;
      2.   Sixty (60) days for the collocation of a small wireless facility; or
      3.   One hundred five (105) days for a new, modified, or replacement
utility pole.
   D.   Extension: The City may extend the shot clock deadline in this section
for an additional ten (10) business days if the City notifies the applicant
before the day in which the deadline expires.
   E.   Deemed Granted: If the City fails to approve or deny an application
before its deadline, the application is deemed granted.
   F.   Denial: The City may deny an application that fails to meet the
requirements of this chapter. If the City denies the application, the City
shall notify the applicant of the denial and document the basis for the denial,
including any specific laws on which the denial is based.
   G.   Cure: Within thirty (30) days of the City's denial, the applicant may
cure any deficiency identified in the City's denial and resubmit its
application without paying an additional application fee. The City shall
approve or deny the resubmitted application within thirty (30) days of its
receipt. The City may only review the portions of the application that were
deficient or that have been changed. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-33: APPLICATION CONSOLIDATION AND SUBMISSION LIMIT:
   A.   Consolidated Application: An applicant may file a consolidated
application for either:
      1.   The collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless facilities
if all the small wireless facilities in the application are substantially the
same type and are proposed for collocation on substantially the same types of
structures; or
      2.   The installation, modification, or replacement of up to twenty five
(25) utility poles.
   B.   Restrictions: A consolidated application may not combine the
collocation of small wireless facilities and the installation, modification, or
replacement of utility poles.
   C.   Submission Limit: Within a 30-day period, an applicant may not file
more than one consolidated application or multiple applications that
collectively seek for a combined total of more than twenty five (25) small
wireless facilities and utility poles. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-34: EXPIRED APPLICATION:
An application expires if the City has notified the applicant that the
application is incomplete and the applicant fails to respond within ninety (90)
days of the City's notification. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-35: SITE PERMIT APPROVAL:
Upon approval of a site permit, a provider:
   A.   Shall complete the work approved within the permit and make the small
wireless facility operational within two hundred seventy (270) days after the
day on which the authority issues the permit, unless the lack of commercial
power or communications facilities at the site delays completion;
   B.   Is authorized to operate and maintain any small wireless facility or
utility pole covered by the permit for a period of ten (10) years from the date
of approval; and
   C.   Is not authorized to install, place, or operate any other facility or
structure in the right-of-way. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-36: SITE PERMIT RENEWAL:
   A.   A provider with a current franchise agreement may renew an expiring
site permit by submitting an application no sooner than ninety (90) days prior
to the expiration of the site permit with the following information:
      1.   The location of the site permit;
      2.   The type of site permit;
      3.   Sufficient evidence that the WCF or utility pole meets or exceeds
the requirements of this chapter at the time of renewal.
   B.   A site permit renewal may not be approved unless the covered WCF or
utility pole is in compliance with this chapter at the time the site permit
renewal application is submitted.
   C.   A site permit renewal application shall have the same application fee
and review process as a collocation application. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-37: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   In accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-303, as amended, a
provider is not required to submit an application, obtain a permit, or pay a
rate for:
      1.   Routine maintenance;
      2.   The replacement of a small wireless facility with a small wireless
facility that is substantially similar or smaller in size; or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of a micro wireless facility that is strung on a cable between existing utility
poles in compliance with the National Electrical Safety Code.
   B.   A provider shall obtain a permit for any of the activities described in
subsection A of this section that requires excavation or closing of sidewalks
or vehicular lanes in a right- of-way.
   C.   A provider shall provide the City with fourteen (14) days' prior,
written notice with sufficient supporting documentation of any of the
activities described in subsection A of this section. For example, the notice
of the replacement of a small wireless facility that is substantially similar
to an existing small wireless facility shall include documentation that
demonstrates that the replacement small wireless facility meets the
requirements of being substantially similar. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-38: EXCEPTIONS TO STANDARDS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter under site design
flexibility, no WCF shall be used or developed contrary to any applicable
development standard unless an exception has been granted pursuant to this
section. These provisions apply exclusively to WCFs and are in lieu of the
generally applicable variance and design departure provisions in this Code;
provided this section does not provide an exception from this chapter's visual
impact and stealth design requirements.
   B.   A WCF's exception is subject to approval by the City.
   C.   An application for a WCF exception shall include:
      1.   A written statement demonstrating how the exception would meet the
criteria;
      2.   A site plan that includes:
         a.   A description of the proposed facility's design and dimensions,
as it would appear with and without the exception;
         b.   Elevations showing all components of the WCF as it would appear
with and without the exception;
         c.   Color simulations of the WCF after construction demonstrating
compatibility with the vicinity, as it would appear with and without the
exception;
         d.   An explanation that demonstrates the following:
            (1)   For macrocells, a significant gap in the coverage, capacity,
or technologies of the service network exists such that users are frequently
unable to connect to the service network, or are regularly unable to maintain a
connection, or are unable to achieve reliable wireless coverage within a
building;
            (2)   The gap can only be filled through an exception to one or
more of the standards herein;
            (3)   The exception is narrowly tailored to fill the service gap
such that the wireless communication facility conforms to these standards to
the greatest extent possible; and
            (4)   The manner in which the applicant proposes to fill the
significant gap in coverage, capacity, or technologies of the service network
is the least intrusive means on the values that these regulations seek to
protect; and
         e.   Any other information requested by the City in order to review
the exception.
   D.   An application for a WCF exception shall be granted if the exception is
consistent with the purpose of the standard for which the exception is sought.
(Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-39: APPLICATION TO INSTALL A MACROCELL OR NONPERMITTED UTILITY POLE:
   A.   The City generally does not permit macrocells and utility poles that
are not permitted under Utah Code Annotated section 54-21-204. The City shall
only permit a nonpermitted macrocell or utility pole if required by Federal
law.
   B.   Macrocells and utility poles that are not permitted under Utah Code
Annotated section 54-21-204 are not subject to the application approval process
established in section
8-1A-32 of this article. As such, this section implements, in part, 47 USC
section 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, as amended, as
interpreted by the FCC in its Report and Order No. 14-153.
   C.   Application review for nonpermitted macrocells and utility poles.
      1.   Application Form Available: The City shall prepare and make publicly
available an application form, the requirements of which shall be limited to
the information necessary for the City to consider whether an application is a
request to install a nonpermitted macrocell or utility pole.
      2.   Application Review: Upon receipt of an application for a
nonpermitted macrocell or utility pole pursuant to this section, the City shall
review such application, make its final decision to approve or disapprove the
application, and advise the applicant in writing of its final decision.
      3.   Reviewing Period: Within one hundred fifty (150) days of the date on
which an applicant submits an application seeking approval of a nonpermitted
macrocell or utility pole under this section, the City shall review and act
upon the application, subject to the tolling provisions in this section.
      4.   Tolling: The 150-day review period begins to run when the
application is filed and may be tolled only by mutual agreement between the
City and the applicant, or in cases where the City determines that the
application is incomplete.
         a.   To toll the time frame for incompleteness, the City shall provide
written notice to the applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
application, specifically delineating all missing documents or information
required in the application.
         b.   The time frame for review begins running again when the applicant
makes a supplemental submission in response to the City's notice of
incompleteness.
         c.   Following a supplemental submission, the City will notify the
applicant within ten (10) days that the supplemental submission did not provide
the information identified in the original notice delineating missing
information. The time frame is tolled in the case of second or subsequent
notices pursuant to the procedures identified in this section. Second or
subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify missing documents or
information that was not delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
      5.   Failure To Act: In the event the City fails to approve or deny a
complete application under this section within the time frame for review,
accounting for any tolling, the applicant shall be entitled to pursue all
remedies under applicable law.
   D.   In addition to the information required in section
8-1A-31 of this article, a nonpermitted macrocell or utility pole application
shall also include:
      1.   The manufacturer's recommended installation, if any;
      2.   A written affirmation for the applicant that the macrocell or
utility pole meets or exceeds all applicable codes, applicable standards, and
Federal, State, and local requirements, laws, regulations, and policies;
      3.   A map that indicates the type and separation distance of other WCFs
owned or operated by the same wireless provider from the proposed WCF;
      4.   A visual analysis including to-scale photo and visual simulations
that show unobstructed before-and-after construction daytime and clear-weather
views from at least two (2) angles, together with a map that shows the location
of each view including all equipment and ground wires; also a description,
drawing, and elevations with the finished color, method of camouflage, and any
illumination;
      5.   A detailed explanation justifying why the WCF is required in the
right-of-way, with a demonstration in a clear and complete written alternative
sites analysis that multiple alternatives in the geographic range of the
service coverage objectives of the applicant were considered. This includes,
but is not limited to, explaining why the installation of permitted small
wireless facilities and the installation of a macrocell on private property are
insufficient. This analysis must include a factually detailed and meaningful
comparative analysis between each alternative candidate and the proposed site
that explains the substantive reasons why the applicant rejected the
alternative candidate;
         a.   A complete alternative sites analysis provided under this
subsection shall not include less than five (5) alternative sites unless the
applicant provides a factually detailed rationale for why it could not identify
at least five (5) potentially available sites;
         b.   For purposes of disqualifying potential alternative sites for the
failure to meet the applicant's service coverage objectives the applicant shall
provide: 1) a description of its objective, whether it be to close a gap or
address a deficiency in coverage, capacity, frequency or technology; 2)
detailed technical maps or other exhibits with clear and concise RF data to
illustrate that the objective is not met using the alternative; and 3) a
description of why the alternative does not meet the objective;
      6.   An explanation that demonstrates the following:
         a.   A significant gap in the coverage, capacity, or technologies of
the service network exists such that users are frequently unable to connect to
the service network, or are regularly unable to maintain a connection, or are
unable to achieve reliable wireless coverage within a building;
         b.   The gap can only be filled through an exception to one or more of
the standards herein;
         c.   The exception is narrowly tailored to fill the service gap such
that WCF conforms to these standards to the greatest extent possible; and
         d.   The manner in which the applicant proposes to fill the
significant gap in coverage, capacity, or technologies of the service network
is the least intrusive means on the values that these regulations seek to
protect;
      7.   A noise study for the proposed WCF and all associated equipment,
including the manufacturer's specifications for all noise-generating equipment
such as air conditioning units and back-up generators, also a depiction of the
equipment location in relation to adjoining properties and a noise study
prepared and sealed by a qualified Utah-license professional engineer that
demonstrates that the WCF will comply with intent and goals of this chapter;
      8.   Mapping showing that the proposed WCF is not to be closer than the
average distance between existing poles that are within one mile of the
proposed site, or if no poles exist within one mile of proposed pole site, then
all subsequently placed poles shall be at least two hundred fifty feet (250')
from each other;
      9.   Evidence that the design of a new pole must comply with the
requirements of this chapter and is approved by the City;
      10.   An affidavit certifying that the applicant has posted or mailed
notices to property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed WCF
site.
         a.   This subsection D10 is not required to be met at the time
application is submitted, but shall be completed prior to approval of a permit.
         b.   The notice shall provide:
            (1)   The applicant's name and contact information;
            (2)   A phone number for the provider by which an individual could
request additional information;
            (3)   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type,
height and width of the proposed tower, separation distances, adjacent
roadways, photo simulations, a depiction of all proposed transmission
equipment, setbacks from property lines and the nearest buildings, and
elevation drawings or renderings of the proposed tower and any other
structures; and
            (4)   Language that states "If you have any public safety concerns
or comments regarding the aesthetics or placement of this wireless
communication facility, please submit your written comments within 14 days to:
               Lehi City
               ATTN: City Engineer
               153 N. 100 E.
               Lehi, Utah 84043"
(Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
ARTICLE VII. CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
8-1A-40: GENERAL REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Chapter Compliance: No provider shall receive a telecommunications
franchise unless it agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this
chapter governing construction and technical requirements for its system, in
addition to any other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the
City or the wireless franchise, including requirements regarding colocation and
cost sharing.
   B.   Pole Attachment Agreement: No antenna, small wireless facility, or
other equipment may be added to City poles without a pole attachment agreement
with the City, or where the City poles are not able to structurally accommodate
the antenna, small wireless facility, or other equipment.
   C.   WCFs Prior To This Chapter: WCFs that lawfully existed prior to the
adoption of this chapter shall be allowed to continue their use as they
presently exist. This Code does not make lawful any WCF that is not fully
approved on the date this chapter is adopted, and those pending WCFs will be
required to meet the requirements of this Code.
   D.   Law And Requirement Compliance: The applicant must comply with all
Federal, State, and local laws and requirements. This includes, but is not
limited to, the Americans With Disabilities Act, and participating in Blue
Stakes of Utah as required by Utah Code 54-8a-2 through 54-8a-13, as amended.
   E.   WCF Within Right-Of-Way: In the installation of any WCF within the
rights-of-way, care shall be taken to install in such a way that does not
damage, interfere with, or disturb any other utility or entity that may already
be located in the area. Any damage done to another utility's or entity's
property shall be immediately reported to both the City and the owner of the
damaged property, and must be promptly repaired by the provider, with the
provider being responsible for all costs of repair, including any extra charges
that may be assessed for emergency repairs. Failure to notify the City and the
damaged property owner will result in revocation of the franchise agreement.
When approving the location for a WCF, the location of utilities or other
entities' property, or the need for the location of other utilities, within the
rights-of-way shall be considered before approval to locate the WCF will be
given in order to ensure those other services to the public are not disrupted.
   F.   Certain Standards And Regulations: All WCFs and utility poles shall
meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any
other agency of the State or Federal government with the authority to regulate
WCFs and utility poles including, but not limited to, RF emissions. If such
standards and regulations are changed, and if WCF equipment is added either
through colocation or replacement, then the owners of the WCFs and utility
poles governed by this chapter shall bring such WCFs and utility poles into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six (6) months of
the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a different
compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling State or Federal agency.
Failure to bring WCFs and utility poles into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the WCF
or utility pole at the owner's expense.
   G.   Code And Standard Compliance: A WCF or utility pole shall comply with
the all applicable codes and applicable standards.
   H.   Upholding Manufacturer And Wind Speed Specifications: All structures
shall be constructed and installed to manufacturer's specifications, and
constructed to withstand a minimum 100-mile per hour wind, or the minimum wind
speed as required by the City's currently adopted International Building Code,
as amended.
   I.   Maintenance: The following maintenance requirements apply to WCFs, as
applicable:
      1.   All landscaping shall be maintained at all times and shall be
promptly replaced if not successful.
      2.   All WCF sites shall be kept clean, neat, and free of litter.
      3.   A WCF shall be kept clean and painted in good condition at all
times. Rusting, dirty, or peeling facilities are prohibited.
      4.   All equipment cabinets shall display a legible operator's contact
number for reporting maintenance problems.
      5.   The applicant shall provide a description of anticipated maintenance
needs, including frequency of service, personnel needs, equipment needs and
potential safety impacts of such maintenance.
   J.   Inspections:
      1.   The City or its agents shall have authority to enter onto the right-
of-way upon which a WCF is located to inspect the facility for the purpose of
determining whether it complies with the applicable codes and standards.
      2.   The City reserves the right to conduct such inspections at any time,
upon reasonable notice to the WCF owner. In the event such inspection results
in a determination that violation of applicable standards set forth by the City
has occurred, the City will notify the provider of the violation.
      3.   Upon receipt of a notice of violation, the provider will have thirty
(30) days from the date of the notice to correct the violation. If the provider
fails to correct the violation within the 30-day period, the City may remove
the violating WCF or utility pole at the provider's sole expense.
      4.   The City may recover all of its costs incurred in processing and
removing the violation.
      5.   The provider may appeal a notice of violation by following the
appeals process found in this Code. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-41: QUALITY:
All work involved in the construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade and removal
of the system shall be performed in a safe, thorough, and reliable manner using
materials of good and durable quality. If, at any time, it is determined by the
FCC or any other agency granted authority by Federal law or the FCC to make
such determination, that any part of the system, including, without limitation,
any means used to distribute signals over or within the system, is harmful to
the public health, safety or welfare, or quality of service or reliability,
then the provider shall, at its own cost and expense, promptly correct all such
conditions. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-42: LICENSES AND PERMITS:
A provider shall have the sole responsibility for diligently obtaining, at its
own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or other forms of approval or
authorization necessary to construct, maintain, upgrade or repair the wireless
communication system, including but not limited to any necessary approvals from
persons, entities, the City, and other government entities (such as neighboring
cities or the Utah Department of Transportation) to use private property,
easements, poles, conduits, and right- of-way. A provider shall obtain any
required permit, license, approval or authorization, including but not limited
to excavation permits, pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the
commencement of the activity for which the permit, license, approval or
authorization is required. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-43: RELOCATION OF THE SYSTEM:
   A.   Generally: The City may require a provider to relocate or adjust a
small wireless facility or utility pole in a right-of- way in a timely manner
and without cost to the City.
   B.   Emergency: The City may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster or
other emergency, as determined by the City in its reasonable discretion, cut or
move any parts of the wireless communication system and appurtenances on, over
or under the right-of-way of the City, in which event the City shall not be
liable therefor to a provider. The City shall notify a provider in writing
prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as possible and in no case
later than the next business day following any action taken under this section.
Notice shall be given as provided in section 8-1A-65 of this chapter.
   C.   Temporarily Move System For Third Party: A provider shall, upon prior
reasonable written notice by the City or any person holding a permit to move
any structure, and within the time that is reasonable under the circumstances,
temporarily move any part of its wireless communication system to permit the
moving of the structure. A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any
person other than the City for any such movement of its systems. (Ord. 77-2018,
8-28-2018)
8-1A-44: PROTECT STRUCTURES:
   A.   In connection with the construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or
removal of the wireless communication system, a provider shall, at its own cost
and expense, protect any and all existing structures.
   B.   A provider shall obtain the prior written consent of the City to alter
any water main, power facility, sewerage or drainage system, or any other
Municipal structure on, over or under the right-of-way of the City required
because of the presence of the system. Such consent may be given at the sole
discretion of the City. Any such alteration shall be made by the City or its
designee on a reimbursable basis.
   C.   A provider agrees that it shall be liable for the costs incurred by the
City to replace or repair and restore to its prior condition in a manner as may
be reasonably specified by the City any Municipal structure or any other right-
of-way of the City involved in the construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade
or removal of the system that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of
any work thereon by or on behalf of a provider pursuant to the wireless
franchise. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-45: NO OBSTRUCTION:
In connection with the construction, maintenance, upgrade, repair or removal of
the system, a provider shall not unreasonably obstruct the right-of-way of
fixed guide way systems, railways, passenger travel, or other traffic to, from
or within the City without the prior consent of the appropriate authorities.
(Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-46: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
A provider shall, at its own cost and expense, undertake all necessary and
appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its work sites, including the
placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences, barricades, security
personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such other requirements
prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. A provider shall comply with all applicable
Federal, State and local requirements including but not limited to the National
Electric Safety Code. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-47: DAMAGE AND REPAIR:
   A.   If a provider's activity causes damage to a right-of-way, the provider
shall repair the right-of-way to substantially the same condition as before the
damage.
   B.   If the provider fails to make a repair required by the City within a
reasonable time after written notice, the City may make the required repair and
charge the provider the reasonable, documented, actual cost for the repair.
   C.   If the provider's damage causes an urgent safety hazard, the City may
immediately make the necessary repair and charge the provider the reasonable,
documented, actual cost for the repair.
   D.   The provider shall pay to the City the entire amount of the repair
within thirty (30) days of receiving of the City's invoice. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-
28-2018)
ARTICLE VIII. PROVIDER RESPONSIBILITIES
8-1A-48: SYSTEM MAINTENANCE:
Each provider shall:
   A.   Install and maintain all parts of its wireless communication system in
a non-dangerous condition throughout the entire period of its wireless
franchise;
   B.   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and conform with all applicable codes and standards; and
   C.   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the City of the system and its effect on the right-of-way.
(Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-49: TRIMMING OF TREES:
A provider shall have the authority to trim trees, in accordance with all
applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and easement restrictions, upon and
hanging over the right-of-way so as to prevent the branches of such trees from
coming in contact with its wireless communication system. A provider shall
provide the City with written notice at least fourteen (14) days before
performing such work. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-50: INVENTORY OF EXISTING SITES:
Every July 1st each provider shall provide to the City an inventory of its
existing WCFs or sites approved for WCFs that are either within the
jurisdiction of the City or within one mile of the border thereof, including
specific information about the location, height, and design of each WCF and
utility pole. The City may share such information with other applicants
applying for permits under this chapter or other organizations seeking to
locate antennas within the jurisdiction of the City; provided, however, that
the City is not, by sharing such information, in any way representing or
warranting that such sites are available or suitable. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
ARTICLE IX. OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION
8-1A-51: INSURANCE, INDEMNITY, AND SECURITY:
   A.   Each provider shall deposit with the City an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit or surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise
agreement and shall obtain and provide proof of the insurance coverage required
by the franchise agreement. Each provider shall also indemnify the City as set
forth in the franchise agreement.
   B.   Each permit issued for a WCF or utility pole located within the right-
of-way or on City property shall be deemed to have as a condition of the permit
a requirement that the applicant defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City
and its officials, officers, agents, employees, volunteers, and contractors
from any and all liability, damages, or charges, including attorneys' fees and
expenses, arising out of claims, suits, demands, or causes of action as a
result of the permit process, a granted permit, construction, erection,
location, performance, operation, maintenance, repair, installation,
replacement, removal, or restoration of the WCF or utility pole. (Ord. 77-2018,
8-28-2018)
8-1A-52: OVERSIGHT:
The City shall have the right to oversee, regulate and inspect periodically the
construction, maintenance, and upgrade of the wireless communication system,
and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the wireless
franchise and applicable law. Each provider shall establish and maintain
managerial and operational records, standards, procedures and controls to
enable a provider to prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the
City at all times throughout the term that the provider is in compliance with
the franchise. Each provider shall retain such records for not less than the
applicable statute of limitations. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-53: MAINTAIN RECORDS:
   A.   Each provider shall at all times maintain on file with the City, a full
and complete set of plans, records and "as-built" hard copy maps and, to the
extent the maps are placed in an electronic format, they shall be made in
electronic format compatible with the City's existing GIS system, of all
existing and proposed installations and the types of equipment and systems
installed or constructed in the right-of-way, properly identified and described
as to the types of equipment and facility by appropriate symbols and marks
which shall include annotations of all rights-of-way where work will be
undertaken. As used herein, "as-built" maps includes "file construction
prints". Maps shall be drawn to scale. "As-built" maps, including the
compatible electronic format, shall be submitted within thirty (30) days of
completion of work or within thirty (30) days after completion of modification
and repairs. "As-built" maps are not required of the provider who is the
incumbent local exchange carrier for the existing system to the extent they do
not exist.
   B.   Throughout the term of the franchise, each provider shall maintain
complete and accurate books of account and records of the business, ownership,
and operations of the provider with respect to the system in a manner that
allows the City at all times to determine whether the provider is in compliance
with the wireless franchise. Should the City reasonably determine that the
records are not being maintained in such a manner, the provider shall alter the
manner in which the books and records are maintained so that the provider comes
into compliance with this section. All financial books and records which are
maintained in accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental
entity that regulates utilities in the State of Utah, and generally accepted
accounting principles, shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section.
(Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-54: CONFIDENTIALITY:
If the information required to be submitted is proprietary in nature or may be
kept confidential under Federal, State or local law, the provider may make such
a request in accordance with the Utah Government Records Access and Management
Act, title 63G chapter 2 of the Utah Code Annotated, as amended ("GRAMA"). A
provider recognizes that the City, as a governmental entity under GRAMA, cannot
guarantee the confidentiality of any information in the City's possession, and
the provider submits such information at its own risk. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-
2018)
8-1A-55: PROVIDER'S EXPENSE:
All reports and records required under this chapter shall be furnished at the
sole expense of each provider, except as otherwise provided in this chapter or
the wireless franchise. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-56: RIGHT OF INSPECTION:
For the purpose of verifying the correct amount of the wireless franchise fee,
the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto shall be open to
inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives of the City at all
reasonable business hours, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records; provided, that the City shall not audit
the books and records of the provider more often than annually. Each provider
agrees to reimburse the City the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit
discloses that the provider has paid ninety five percent (95%) or less of the
compensation due the City for the period of such audit. In the event the
accounting rendered to the City by the provider herein is found to be
incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount within thirty
(30) calendar days of written notice, it being agreed that the City may accept
any amount offered by the provider, but the acceptance thereof by the City
shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount is in dispute or is
later found to be incorrect. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
ARTICLE X. RIGHTS OF CITY
8-1A-57: ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES:
   A.   The City is responsible for enforcing and administering this chapter.
The City or its designee, as appointed by the Mayor, is authorized to give any
notice required by law or under any wireless franchise agreement.
   B.   In the event that an individual or entity violates this chapter, the
City will notify the violating party of the violation and provide thirty (30)
days for the party to cure the violation.
   C.   If the violation is not cured within thirty (30) days, the City may:
      1.   Fine the violating party five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day
until the violation is cured; and
      2.   Terminate or suspend any franchises, permits, or licenses held by
the violating party.
   D.   If the violation is not cured within one hundred eighty (180) days of
the City's notice, the City may remove and impound the grantee's equipment
until the violation has been cured.
   E.   The violating entity may appeal the City's notice of violation within
ten (10) days in accordance with this Code. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-58: FORCE MAJEURE:
In the event a provider's performance of any of the terms, conditions or
obligations required by this chapter or a wireless franchise is prevented by a
cause or event not within a provider's control, such inability to perform shall
be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a result
thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes or events not within the
control of a provider shall include, without limitation, acts of God, strikes,
sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of utilities,
explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural disasters such as floods,
earthquakes, landslides, and fires. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-59: EXTENDED OPERATION AND CONTINUITY OF SERVICES:
   A.   Continuation After Expiration: Upon either expiration or revocation of
a wireless franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the City shall have
discretion to permit or require a provider to continue to operate its system or
provide services for an extended period of time not to exceed six (6) months
from the date of such expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to
operate its system under the terms and conditions of this chapter and the
wireless franchise granted pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Continuation By Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier: If the provider is
the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith. (Ord.
77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-60: REMOVAL OR ABANDONMENT OF WIRELESS FRANCHISE PROPERTY:
Each provider is subject to the removal and abandonment requirements of section
8-1-9 of this title and the franchise agreement. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
ARTICLE XI. OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY
8-1A-61: PUBLICIZING WORK:
Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good faith
attempt to contact the property owners in advance and describe the work to be
performed. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
ARTICLE XII. GENERAL PROVISIONS
8-1A-62: CONFLICTS:
In the event of a conflict between any provision of this chapter, franchise
agreement, or with other provisions of this Code or the Lehi City Development
Code, the provisions of this chapter shall control. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-63: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter is held by any Federal, State or local court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid as conflicting with any Federal or
State Statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in any way in order to
conform to the requirements of any such law and all appellate remedies with
regard to the validity of the chapter provisions in question are exhausted,
such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct, and independent part
of this chapter, and such holding shall not affect the validity and
enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the event that such law is
subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed so that the
provision which had been held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict with
such law the provision in question shall return to full force and effect and
shall again be binding on the City and the provider; provided, that the City
shall give the provider thirty (30) days, or a longer period of time as may be
reasonably required for a provider to comply with such a rejuvenated provision,
written notice of the change before requiring compliance with such provision.
(Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-64: NEW DEVELOPMENTS:
It shall be the policy of the City to liberally amend this chapter, upon
application of a provider, when necessary to enable the provider to take
advantage of any developments in the field of personal wireless services which
will afford the provider an opportunity to more effectively, efficiently, or
economically serve itself or the public. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-65: NOTICES:
All notices from a provider to the City required under this chapter or pursuant
to a wireless franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be directed to
the officer as designated by the Mayor. Each provider shall provide in any
application for a wireless franchise the identity, address and phone number to
receive notices from the City. Each provider shall immediately notify the City
of any change in its name, address, or telephone number. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-
2018)
8-1A-66: EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER:
To the full extent permitted by applicable law either now or in the future, the
City reserves the right to amend this chapter and to adopt or issue such rules,
regulations, orders, or other directives that it finds necessary or appropriate
in the lawful exercise of its police powers and its power to manage the rights-
of-way. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
ARTICLE XIII. FEDERAL, STATE AND CITY JURISDICTION
8-1A-67: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with all applicable
Federal and State Statutes. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-68: CHAPTER APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all franchises granted to or renewed by wireless
providers after the effective date of this chapter. This chapter shall further
apply, to the extent permitted by applicable Federal or State law, to all
existing franchises granted to wireless providers prior to the effective date
of this section and to a wireless provider providing wireless services, without
a franchise, prior to the effective date of this section. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-
2018)
8-1A-69: OTHER APPLICABLE ORDINANCES:
Each provider's rights are subject to the police powers of the City to adopt
and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety and welfare of the
public. Each provider shall comply with all applicable general laws and
ordinances enacted by the City pursuant to its police powers. In particular,
all providers shall comply with the City zoning and other land use
requirements. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
8-1A-70: CITY FAILURE TO ENFORCE:
Each provider shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter by
reason of any failure of the City to enforce prompt compliance. (Ord. 77-2018,
8-28-2018)
8-1A-71: CONSTRUED ACCORDING TO UTAH LAW:
This chapter and any wireless franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall
be construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the State
of Utah. Specifically, in the event of any conflict between this chapter and
the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, title 54, chapter 21 of the Utah
Code Annotated, as amended, the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act shall
control. (Ord. 77-2018, 8-28-2018)
CHAPTER 2
STREET AND SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Injuring Trees Growing On Public Property
8-2-2: Dropping Refuse In Streets
8-2-3: Obstructing Streets With Vehicles
8-2-4: Unlawful To Congregate On Sidewalks
8-2-5: Flooding Streets And Sidewalks
8-2-6: Cleaning Sidewalks
8-2-7: Driving On Sidewalks
8-2-8: Self-Closing Gates Across Sidewalks
8-2-9: Conveying Water Across Sidewalks
8-2-10: Placing Snow On Street
8-2-1: INJURING TREES GROWING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously cut down, girdle or
injure any tree or shrubbery standing on the public streets, sidewalks, squares
or public grounds of this city. (1984 Code § 12.20.010)
8-2-2: DROPPING REFUSE IN STREETS:
Every person who throws or deposits in, or who shall haul or transport through
any of the streets, alleys or public grounds of this city, any coal, gravel,
stone, offal, manure, rubbish, ashes, stumps, garbage or any offensive matter,
in any truck or other conveyance so constructed that such coal, stone, gravel,
offal, manure, rubbish, ashes, stumps, garbage or any offensive matter drop, or
in any other manner is strewn, or deposited in any of the streets, alleys or
public grounds is guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 12.20.020; amd. 2015 Code)
8-2-3: OBSTRUCTING STREETS WITH VEHICLES:
Any person owning or controlling any automobile, farm machinery, or other
vehicle or thing who shall suffer such automobile, farm machinery, vehicle or
thing to remain or stand upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public
thoroughfare of this city in such manner as to obstruct the same is guilty of a
class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and must remove the obstruction immediately. (1984 Code §
12.20.030; amd. 2015 Code)
8-2-4: UNLAWFUL TO CONGREGATE ON SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person or persons in this city, to congregate about or
upon any public sidewalk, stairway, doorway, window, or in front of any
business or dwelling house, theater, lecture room, church or elsewhere and by
so doing obstruct or interfere with the free passage of persons entering,
leaving or occupying any such building or premises, and is guilty of a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 12.20.040; amd. 2015 Code)
8-2-5: FLOODING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
Every person who wilfully, carelessly or negligently obstructs, injures or
floods any street or sidewalk by the flow or seepage of water, or who wilfully,
carelessly or negligently permits water under his control to escape in any
manner so as to obstruct, injure or flood any street or sidewalk within the
limits of this city, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 12.20.060; amd. 2015 Code)
8-2-6: CLEANING SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any occupant or the owner of any property abutting on any
street, within the platted portion of this city, to neglect or fail to clean
and keep clean, of all weeds, ice or snow, rubbish, and obstructions, the
sidewalks in front of his premises. (1984 Code § 12.20.080)
8-2-7: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS:
Every person who shall drive or propel any motor vehicle upon any sidewalk, or
shall stop any automobile or other vehicle on any sidewalk within the limits of
this city is guilty of a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 12.20.090; amd. 2015 Code)
8-2-8: SELF-CLOSING GATES ACROSS SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any gates, except self-
closing in good repair, which open upon any of the sidewalks of this city so as
to swing out over such sidewalks, or any part thereof. (1984 Code § 12.20.110)
8-2-9: CONVEYING WATER ACROSS SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person to convey water across any sidewalk within the
limits of this city, except in a covered culvert or box extending the whole
width of the sidewalk. It is likewise unlawful for any person to use or
maintain any such culvert or box without keeping the same in good repair. (1984
Code § 12.20.120)
8-2-10: PLACING SNOW ON STREET:
It is illegal to blow or push snow into any city street by any means, including
using a snowblower, shovel, ATV, plow, etc. (Ord. 8-10-10.6, 8-10-2010)
CHAPTER 3
STREET NAMES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Street Names Designated
8-3-1: STREET NAMES DESIGNATED:
The street running east and west between blocks 32 and 39, and blocks lying
east and west thereof in plat "A", city survey of building lots, shall be known
as Main Street; the first street south of said Main Street, and running
parallel thereto, shall be known as 100 South, the second, 200 South, and so on
in regular order to the southern limits of the city; the first street north of
said Main Street, and running parallel thereto shall be known as 100 North, the
second, 200 North, and so on in regular number to the northern limits of the
city. The street running north and south between blocks 40 and 41 and blocks
lying north and south thereof shall be known as Center Street; the first street
east of said Center Street, and running parallel thereto, shall be known as 100
East, the second, 200 East, and so on in regular number to the eastern limits
of the city; the first street west of said Center Street, and running parallel
thereto, shall be known as 100 West, the second, 200 West, and so on in regular
number to the western limits of the city. The street running northwesterly,
through the northern portion of the city, on the north side of block 86, shall
be known as State Street. (1984 Code § 12.08.010; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 4
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Barrier And Lighting Requirements
8-4-1: BARRIER AND LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
Every person who shall hereafter make any excavation for cellar or other
purposes upon any street or sidewalk, or upon any lot abutting upon any street
or public highway within the city, shall protect the same by a fence of
sufficient height and strength to prevent persons and animals lawfully upon the
streets or sidewalks from falling into such excavations; and where such
excavation is upon any street or sidewalk, or where any street or sidewalk is
otherwise obstructed, a warning flasher or other sign or technical device as
approved by the MUTCO (manual of uniform traffic control) shall be affixed to
such fence or over or near such obstruction, and be kept active through the
whole of every night such obstruction shall remain; provided, that where there
is a trench dug for water or sewer purposes it shall be necessary to have
warning flashers or other systems employed as approved by the MUTCO, the whole
of each and every night that the trench shall remain, at each end of the trench
and not more than one hundred (100) yards apart, and on each crossing of the
trench, and at each angle thereof. (1984 Code § 12.12.010; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TREES
(Rep. by Ord. 43-2024, 7-9-2024)
CHAPTER 6
CITY LIBRARY
SECTION:
8-6-1: Established
8-6-2: Use Of Library
8-6-3: Annual Report Required
8-6-4: Donations
8-6-5: Tax Levy
8-6-1: ESTABLISHED:
A free public library is established for the use and benefit of the inhabitants
of the city. (1984 Code § 2.76.010)
8-6-2: USE OF LIBRARY:
The library established by this chapter shall be forever free to the use of the
taxpayers of the city, subject, however, to such reasonable rules and
regulations as the library board may adopt, in order to render the use of the
library of the greatest benefit to the greatest number; and the board may
exclude from the use of the library any and all persons who shall wilfully
violate such rules. The board may extend the privileges and use of such library
to persons residing outside of the city upon such terms and conditions as the
board may from time to time by its regulations prescribe. (1984 Code §
2.76.060)
8-6-3: ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED:
The board of directors shall make, on or before the second Monday in June, an
annual report to the city council, stating the condition of their trusts on
June 1 of that year, the various sums of money received for the Frances Comer
perpetual library fund and how much money has been expended from the Frances
Comer perpetual library fund and for what purpose. All such portions of the
report as related to the receipt and expenditure of money shall be verified by
affidavit. (1984 Code § 2.76.070; amd. 2015 Code)
8-6-4: DONATIONS:
Any person desiring to make donations of money, personal property or real
estate, for the benefit of the Frances Comer perpetual library fund, shall have
the right to vest the title to the money, personal property or real estate so
donated, in the board of directors thereof, to be held and controlled by such
board, when accepted, according to the terms of the deed, gift, devise or
bequest of such property; and, as to such property, the board shall be held and
considered to be trustees. (1984 Code § 2.76.080; amd. 2015 Code)
8-6-5: TAX LEVY:
The city council may each year, in the manner prescribed by law, levy and
collect a tax not to exceed the amount allowed by Utah Code Annotated section
9-7-401 to maintain such library. (1984 Code § 2.76.090; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CITY CEMETERY
SECTION:
8-7-1: Purpose
8-7-2: General Provisions
8-7-3: Definitions
8-7-4: Ownership And Certificates
8-7-5: Procedures
8-7-6: Funeral And Interment
8-7-7: Rules And Landscaping
8-7-8: Markers And Monuments
8-7-9: Decorating Gravesites And Other Regulations
8-7-10: Infant Cemetery
8-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the cemetery is to provide an affordable, peaceful and well
maintained permanent resting place and memorial for the deceased. (Ord. 13-
2016, 2-9-2016; amd. Ord. 05-2024, 2-13-2024)
8-7-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The cemetery is owned by the city, and shall be operated and maintained by the
city parks department. Cemetery records shall be maintained by the city. (Ord.
13-2016, 2-9-2016; amd. Ord. 05-2024, 2-13-2024)
8-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
BODY:         The remains of one human body (cremated or otherwise) or the remains of a
              mother and such mother's infant child.
CEMETERY:     The real property owned by Lehi City, used and reserved for interment of the
              dead.
CERTIFICATE   The fee charged by the city for issuing a duplicate certificate or by
FEE:          transferring certificate or transferring interment rights, adding names or
              documents to the certificate records, as set forth therein.
CITY:         Lehi City Corporation.
DISINTERMENT: The opening or excavation of an existing space.
FEE SCHEDULE: The current Lehi City fee schedule as adopted and amended by the Lehi City
              council.
              A fetus or a child up to two (2) years of age whose remains will fit into ½
INFANT:       the normal sized space in a combination casket vault that is less than five
              (5) feet wide by five (5) feet long.
INFANT        The section of the Cemetery reserved for the burial of infants
CEMETERY:
INTERMENT OR  The burial of a body into a space.
INTER:
LOT:          An area containing eight (8) spaces.
NONRESIDENT:  Any person who is not a resident of Lehi City.
RESIDENT:     Any person who is a legal resident of Lehi City.
SPACE:        A legal and authorized gravesite generally measuring five feet by ten feet
              (5' x 10') and intended for interment.
TRANSFER:     To sell, donate, exchange, trade or convey a space. (Ord. 13-2016, 2-9-2016;
              amd. Ord. 05-2024, 2-13-2024)
 
8-7-4: OWNERSHIP AND CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Rights Of Ownership: In accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 8-
5-7, the city shall sell only the right to be interred in the city cemetery.
The purchase of interment rights in any lot or space as evidenced by a
certificate of interment rights shall provide only the right to be interred in
the cemetery, and is not a deed to convey title to real property.
   B.   Purchase Of Spaces: Residents must provide evidence in a form
acceptable to the city that they are a resident of Lehi City. Residents and
nonresidents may purchase spaces in the cemetery for the current prices listed
and as adopted by the Lehi City council on the fee schedule. The purchaser may
purchase spaces of one to a maximum of eight (8). The purchase price for each
space includes perpetual care with no maintenance fee to be assessed, and must
be paid for in full at the time of purchase. There are no sale agreements or
payment arrangements. All spaces purchased for the resident rate shall be
clearly marked on the certificate to indicate that the owner paid the resident
pricing for the space. Absolutely no cemetery space will be held or reserved.
Spaces can be traded for other spaces, but the owner will be required to pay
the difference between the original cemetery space and the current published
cemetery space price. Purchaser is to list two (2) persons as beneficiary
recipients of their said spaces in the event that the purchaser is deceased and
has remaining spaces left.
   C.   Certificate Of Ownership: Owners of each space shall be issued a
certificate of interment rights which describes the location of the space
within the cemetery. The city shall retain a duplicate record of all
certificates of interment rights issued. City records shall be the official
record or ownership for all spaces. The certificate of interment rights shall
include a statement that uses of the space are subject to these rules.
   D.   Transfer Of Space: A certificate of interment rights for an unoccupied
space may be transferred by the owner of the space by:
      1.   Presenting the original deed or certificate;
      2.   Completing a space transfer form;
      3.   Paying the certificate fee for each new certificate that is required
by virtue of the transfer; and
      4.   Either appearing in person and producing photo identification
proving owner identity, or have the owner's signature on the space transfer
form notarized by a licensed notary.
      The transfer of certificates of interment rights owned by deceased
persons may be completed in accordance with the Utah uniform probate code. If a
deed or certificate cannot be located by an individual or a family for
presentation, the parks manager or his/her designee may, with the authorization
of the city administrator, make such arrangements for transfer and/or burial as
are equitable and appropriate considering all the circumstances. If spaces are
purchased at the resident rate and are transferred to a nonresident who is not
the space owner's spouse, parent, sibling, child, grandchild or great
grandchild, prior to a new certificate being issued, the transferee must pay
the difference between residential rate and nonresidential rate at the time of
transfer, and pay the certificate fee charge. For every space transferred, a
new certificate of interment rights shall be issued and the old certificate
shall be null and void and remitted with the transfer forms and requests.
   E.   Duplicate Certificates Of Interment Rights: Duplicate certificates of
interment rights may be issued upon written request of owner and payment of the
certificate fee. Duplicate certificates of interment rights shall be clearly
marked with the words "duplicate certificate".
   F.   Abandonment And Forfeiture Of Space: The city council may terminate the
rights of owners of spaces in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 8-5-
1 et seq. (Ord. 13-2016, 2-9-2016; amd. Ord. 05-2024, 2-13-2024)
8-7-5: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Caskets Or Coffins: No more than one body may be buried in any one
space, or two (2) infants, or a maximum of six (6) remains in any one space,
upon approval of the parks manager or his/her designee. Vertical stacking of
caskets, vaults, coffins or urns is not allowed. All bodies, remains or other
items buried with the body must be in a casket, coffin or urn. All caskets,
coffins or urns must be enclosed in a city approved concrete vault. The casket,
coffin or urn shall contain only the body or remains of the deceased, clothing
and jewelry, and other small personal items that fit therein.
   B.   Excavating Spaces: Authorized city personnel shall be responsible for
the excavation of gravesites. The parks manager or his/her designee may allow a
third party to excavate a gravesite. Authorization must be provided in writing.
   C.   Application: The city shall not open a space for interment, provide
interment services or disinterment services until the city has received a
completed application form for interment or disinterment, signed by a relative
of the deceased, ecclesiastical leader or licensed funeral director
representing the deceased, together with the fee as provided herein.
   D.   Proof Of Ownership: If the deceased is the sole owner of the space, the
city shall verify the identity of the deceased prior to interment. If the space
is owned by someone other than the deceased, written permission in a form
acceptable to the city from the owner of the certificate shall be required
prior to any interment.
   E.   Payment Of Fees: The fee to open and close a gravesite, as set forth on
the fee schedule, shall be paid prior to any interment or disinterment.
Mortuaries that collect opening and closing gravesite fee will be billed on a
monthly basis.
   F.   Additional Fees And Charges: Fees and costs in addition to those set
forth in the fee schedule may be charged for special circumstances requiring
additional city staff, equipment or resources. Such additional charges shall be
paid in full prior to any interment or disinterment.
   G.   Closing Of Gravesites: City personnel shall close any open gravesite
promptly after the casket or coffin is placed in the vault.
   H.   Disinterment Services: The city shall provide disinterment services
only for persons buried in a nonbiodegradable vault and in accordance with
applicable statutes, rules and regulations. (Ord. 13-2016, 2-9-2016; amd. Ord.
55-2021, 9-28-2021; Ord. 05-2024, 2-13-2024)
8-7-6: FUNERAL AND INTERMENT:
   A.   Prohibited Days: The city will not provide interment or disinterment
service on the following days: Sundays, New Year's Day, Independence Day,
Pioneer Day, Labor Day, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
   B.   Hours Of Services: Graveside services or interments shall be conducted
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M.,
unless otherwise approved by the parks manager or his/her designee.
   C.   Length Of Services: Graveside services and/or interments shall not
exceed two (2) hours in length, unless authorization is provided by the parks
manager or his/her designee.
   D.   Funeral Processions: Upon entering the cemetery, all funeral
processions shall be under control and direction of the parks manager or his/
her designee.
   E.   Gravesite Decorations: Any grave decoration, funeral design, flowers or
other items left at a gravesite are subject to be removed for maintenance
purposes. Removal of flowers, grave decoration, etc., will occur after seven
(7) days, or as soon thereafter as the weather will allow. (Ord. 13-2016, 2-9-
2016; amd. Ord. 05-2024, 2-13-2024)
8-7-7: RULES AND LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Recreational Activity: No recreational or athletic activities are
permitted within the cemetery. Walking or jogging on designated roadways is
allowed.
   B.   Noise: All visitors to the cemetery shall maintain reasonable levels of
noise to avoid disturbing other visitors and/or neighbors at the cemetery. Loud
music, shouting, yelling, barking dogs and all other loud noises are
prohibited.
   C.   Damage Or Removal Of Headstones Or Markers: It is unlawful to damage or
remove any headstone, tombstone or marker, or city property located in the Lehi
City Cemetery, or to desecrate any gravesite within the cemetery. Violators
will be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
   D.   Placement Of Markers, Headstones, Etc.: No placement of grave markers,
headstones, etc., shall occur without preauthorization by the parks manager or
his/her designee.
   E.   Animals: Domestic and companion animals are not allowed on cemetery
property unless properly restrained. Properly restrained animals shall not be
allowed to urinate or defecate on a gravesite, headstone, grave marker, etc.
The owner of a properly restrained animal is responsible to remove any fecal
matter his/her animal deposits on cemetery property.
   F.   Individual Landscaping: No private mowing or digging will be allowed
within the cemetery. Flowers may not be planted without permission of the parks
manager or his/her designee. No private individual shall plant any plant, tree,
shrub or bush. Any plant, tree, shrub or bush planted by a private individual
without permission from the parks manager or his/her designee will be removed
and disposed of.
   G.   Motor Vehicles: Motor vehicles shall remain on clearly designated
roadways within the cemetery, unless provided express consent by city
personnel.
   H.   Visitation Hours: Cemetery hours shall be from seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. daily, unless otherwise noted.
   I.   Signs And Advertisements: No unauthorized signs or advertisements shall
be displayed within the cemetery.
   J.   Traffic Ordinances: City traffic ordinances relative to the operation
of vehicles and conduct of pedestrians shall be in effect within the cemetery.
The speed limit within the cemetery shall be five (5) miles per hour.
   K.   Children: Children under the age of sixteen (16) years shall not be
allowed within the cemetery unless accompanied by a parent or a chaperone whom
is at least eighteen (18) years of age. Exceptions to this rule are allowed for
persons attending an authorized funeral service, placing of flowers on a
gravesite of a deceased relative or friend, or performing any other customary
respect or respectful actions consistent with the environment maintained within
the cemetery.
   L.   Surface Grade: No blocks, lots or spaces shall be raised above the
established grade.
   M.   Alcohol Or Tobacco: Consumption of alcohol beverages and smoking is not
allowed in the cemetery at any time. (Ord. 13-2016, 2-9-2016; amd. Ord. 05-
2024, 2-13-2024)
8-7-8: MARKERS AND MONUMENTS:
   A.   Fencing And Dividers: No space shall be defined by fences, railings,
coping, hedges, trees, shrubs, embarking depression or any other markers to
describe its corners or boundaries, unless approved by the parks manager or
his/her designee.
   B.   Headstones, Markers And Monuments: Raised headstones, markers and
monuments are allowed in the cemetery. The owners of the certificate of space
or relatives of interred persons in the cemetery are required to erect and
maintain in a manner satisfactory to the city, and at the expense of the space
certificate holder or relatives of deceased, a headstone or marker or other
suitable monument at the head of the gravesite with the name of the deceased
person inscribed thereon. All headstones, markers and monuments must be in an
orderly row and reasonably in line with all other such markers in that lot. On
a cremation, or space with more than one remains, one headstone for the entire
space is allowed, unless approval of the parks manager or his/her designee is
given.
   C.   Headstone, Marker And Monument Bases: All headstones, markers and
monuments shall have a stone or cement base, level with the ground, extending
outward from the perimeter of the base of the headstone or marker and shall be
six inches (6") on all sides, with a minimum thickness of four inches (4").
   D.   Specifications For Raised Headstone, Marker Or Monument:
      1.   For a single raised headstone, marker or monument, the width (side
to side) shall not exceed forty eight inches (48"), not including the six inch
(6") base. The height shall not exceed forty eight inches (48"), including the
base of the headstone, marker or monument. The depth shall not exceed twenty
four inches (24"), not including the base.
      2.   For a double raised headstone, marker or monument, the width (side
to side) of a raised double headstone, marker or monument shall not exceed
seventy six inches (76"), not including the six inch (6") base. The height and
depth specifications are the same as a single raised headstone, marker or
monument.
      3.   For a single raised headstone, marker or monument in sections K,
14N, 15N, 17N, & 18N, the width (side to side) shall not exceed thirty inches
(30"), not including the six-inch (6") base. The height shall not exceed forty-
eight inches (48"), including the base of the headstone, marker, or monument.
The depth shall not exceed twenty-four inches (24') not including the base.
   E.   Specifications For Flat Markers: Flat markers shall not be smaller in
surface measurement than twelve inches by eighteen inches (12" x 18"), not
including the base and not larger than twenty one inches by forty two inches
(21" x 42"), not including the base.
   F.   Materials: All headstones, markers and monuments must be made of real
bronze, glazed granite or other permanent materials acceptable to the city and
designees. Headstones, markers and monuments shall not be made of wood,
sandstone or any other material which is susceptible to decay and/or erosion.
   G.   Vases: All permanent vases placed in the cement or the stone base of a
headstone, marker or monument shall be recessed to ground level when not in
use. Receptacles in the monument itself are allowed, provided they do not
project horizontally beyond the base of the monument, marker or headstone.
   H.   Permanent Gravesite Decorations: All permanent gravesite decorations
must be approved by the park manager or his/her designee. Shepherd hooks, works
of art and solar lights, if installed, must be placed in the cement or stone
base of the headstone, marker or monument. There must be holes for these items
to be placed and any damage to the base, headstone, marker or monument caused
by adding holes, or due to the holes, is the owner's responsibility. Shepherd
hooks, works of art and solar lights placed in bases, headstones, markers or
monuments cannot project horizontally beyond the base in any horizontal
direction. Shepherd hooks, works of art and solar lights placed in headstones,
markers or monuments shall not exceed seven feet (7') in height from the
ground.
   I.   Liability For Damage: The city is not liable for any damage to
headstones, markers or monuments, unless the damage is due to the city's
negligent, reckless or intentional conduct. (Ord. 13-2016, 2-9-2016; amd. Ord.
05-2024, 2-13-2024)
8-7-9: DECORATING GRAVESITES AND OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Removal Of Items: If the city removes grave decorations, funeral
designs, flowers or other items, then such items shall be retained for the
period of two
      (2) days before being discarded. The city shall not be liable for any
items that are discarded, damaged or destroyed. Grave decorations will be
removed weekly for normal maintenance, with the exception of the week of
Memorial Day.
   B.   Theft Or Loss Of Personal Belongings: The city is not responsible for
the theft or loss of personal belongings within the cemetery.
   C.   Prohibited Interment Outside Cemetery: It shall be unlawful for any
person to inter human remains within the city limits, except in the Lehi City
Cemetery. (Ord. 13-2016, 2-9-2016; amd. Ord. 05-2024, 2-13-2024)
8-7-10: INFANT CEMETERY:
   A.   There is hereby created a section of the cemetery reserved for the
burial of Infants.
   B.   Unless modified by provisions of this section
8-7-10, all other provisions found in this Chapter 7 shall apply to the Infant
Cemetery.
   C.   Burial in the Infant Cemetery is only available to Infants as defined
above.
   D.   No permanent gravesite decorations are allowed in the Infant Cemetery.
This includes, but is not limited to, shepherd hooks, works of art, and solar
lights.
   E.   No permanent vases are allowed in the apron, cement, or the stone base
of a headstone.
   F.   Purchase of burial spaces is on an as-needed basis for the burial of an
infant only. Spaces are available to residents and nonresidents for the prices
listed as adopted by the Lehi City Council on the most recent fiscal year fee
schedule. Residents must provide an acceptable form of proof of residency to
the City. The purchaser my purchase no more than one (1) space in a given
transaction. The purchaser will not be permitted to select a burial space;
instead, an authorized city representative will determine the order and
placement of burial.
   G.   Transfer of spaces within the Infant Cemetery is not permitted.
   H.   Raised headstones are not allowed in the Infant Cemetery. All
headstones must be flush with the ground.
   I.   Flat markers shall be eight (8) inches by sixteen (16) inches, not
including the apron. (Ord. 13-2016, 2-9-2016; amd. Ord. 05-2024, 2-13-2024)
CHAPTER 8
RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT PROGRAM
SECTION:
8-8-1: Regulations For Program
8-8-2: Purpose Of Provisions
8-8-3: Criteria For Regulation Of Program
8-8-4: Definitions
8-8-5: Designation Of Preferential Resident Parking Permit Areas
8-8-6: Hours Of Regulation
8-8-7: Parking Permits
8-8-8: Posting Of Residential Parking Area
8-8-9: Validity Of Parking Permit Use
8-8-10: Enforcement And Penalties
8-8-11: Revocation Of Permit
8-8-1: REGULATIONS FOR PROGRAM:
The provisions codified in this chapter shall be known and may be referred to
as REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT PROGRAM. (Ord. 53-2016, 8-9-2016)
8-8-2: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
The residential parking permit program shall balance all affected interests,
including public safety, neighborhood concerns, and the welfare of the general
public.
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish operating regulations for
preferential residential parking in designated areas as set forth in this
chapter. (Ord. 53-2016, 8-9-2016)
8-8-3: CRITERIA FOR REGULATION OF PROGRAM:
Regulations for preferential residential parking shall be based on the
following criteria in this chapter. (Ord. 53-2016, 8-9-2016)
8-8-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter shall have the meanings indicated:
GUEST PARKING PERMIT: A permit issued by the city to a resident for use by a
guest of the resident which is affixed to or displayed by a vehicle qualifying
under these regulations.
MOTOR VEHICLE: An automobile, truck, motorcycle, scooter, or other motor driven
or self-propelled form of transportation intended primarily for use and
operation on the highways, but not including motor vehicles longer than twenty
feet (20').
RESIDENCE: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied, or
designed as, or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families,
but not including hotels, motels, bed and breakfast establishments, or
residential or commercial buildings which are required to have off street
parking spaces such as apartments, condominium complexes, etc.
RESIDENT PARKING PERMIT: A permit issued by the city to a resident for use by
the resident which is affixed to or displayed by a vehicle qualifying under
these regulations. (Ord. 53-2016, 8-9-2016)
8-8-5: DESIGNATION OF PREFERENTIAL RESIDENT PARKING PERMIT AREAS:
Incorporated herein by reference is a copy of map designating the restricted
parking areas. The area designated in orange on the map is specifically
designated as a "no parking" area. The area designated in red on the map is
specifically designated as "parking by permit only" area. (Ord. 53-2016, 8-9-
2016; Ord. 65-2019, 9-24-2019)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d8c21609a391ea6560a5c1a72c37854e8b46f44e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1540.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d8c21609a391ea6560a5c1a72c37854e8b46f44e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1542.png]
8-8-6: HOURS OF REGULATION:
Unless otherwise designated, a parking permit shall be required to park in the
area designated in red between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and three
thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M. when school is in session. (Ord. 53-2016, 8-9-2016)
8-8-7: PARKING PERMITS:
   A.   Each residence within the area designated in red shall be eligible for
two (2) resident parking permits and one guest parking permit. There shall be
no charge for obtaining the permit(s).
   B.   Resident parking permits shall be issued for a specific vehicle and a
resident must show a valid vehicle registration and valid proof of residence to
obtain a resident parking permit(s).
   C.   A resident must show valid proof of residence to obtain a guest parking
permit.
   D.   Permits shall be hung from the rear view mirror.
   E.   Any vehicle parked in the permit parking area which does not display a
valid parking permit as required by this chapter shall be subject to the
penalties described in section
8-8-10 of this chapter.
   F.   Permits may be obtained at the Lehi City police department. (Ord. 53-
2016, 8-9-2016)
8-8-8: POSTING OF RESIDENTIAL PARKING AREA:
The city shall install appropriate signs or markings indicating prominently
thereon the requirement to have a parking permit and that vehicles parked that
do not display a legally issued permit may be towed. (Ord. 53-2016, 8-9-2016)
8-8-9: VALIDITY OF PARKING PERMIT USE:
Use of both residential and guest parking permits is limited to the area
immediately contiguous to the permit holder's residence. The issuance of a
permit does not guarantee a parking stall. (Ord. 53-2016, 8-9-2016)
8-8-10: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The Lehi City police department shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle in
violation of the prohibitions established by this chapter.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for a person holding a valid resident parking
permit to allow the use or display of said permit on a motor vehicle other than
that for which the permit was issued. Such an act constitutes a violation by
both the person holding the valid permit and the person who uses or displays
the permit on a vehicle other than the one for which the permit is issued.
   D.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to
copy or otherwise bring into existence a facsimile or counterfeit parking
permit.
   E.   Violators may be ticketed and/or towed or booted. Such decision shall
be made by the Lehi City police department and/or officer at the scene. If said
vehicles are towed, they shall be impounded until the owner has paid the
reasonable costs of towing/booting and storage.
   F.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may be prosecuted as a class
C misdemeanor. (Ord. 53-2016, 8-9-2016)
8-8-11: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The city is authorized to issue a citation and immediately revoke the
residential parking permit of any person found to be in violation of this
chapter, and upon written notification, the person shall surrender the permit
to Lehi City. Failure to surrender such permit shall be deemed an independent
violation of this chapter. If such residential parking privileges are revoked,
the resident may be prohibited from obtaining any residential parking permit
for one year. (Ord. 53-2016, 8-9-2016)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
COMBINED WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Operation As Single Unit
9-1-2: Billing And Collection Procedures
9-1-3: Users Bound By Regulations
9-1-4: Damaging Sewer Unlawful
9-1-5: Services In Name Of Property Owner
9-1-1: OPERATION AS SINGLE UNIT:
The water plant and system and the sewer system shall, so far as practicable,
be operated as a single unit and with a single maintenance and clerical force.
(1984 Code § 13.04.010)
9-1-2: BILLING AND COLLECTION PROCEDURES:
Billing and collection procedures shall be as specified in title 2, chapter 1
of this code. (2015 Code)
9-1-3: USERS BOUND BY REGULATIONS:
Any applicant using the city water or sewer system must agree to be bound by
the rules and regulations governing the use of the systems. In addition
thereto, the city council may by resolution or ordinance adopt such further
rules and regulations and establish such user fees and connection fees as it
may deem proper. (1984 Code § 13.04.030)
9-1-4: DAMAGING SEWER UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to damage any public sewer, or any of the
appurtenances thereto, or to cast any substance into any manhole or clean out,
or to remove any manhole cover without permission from the wastewater
superintendent. Such unlawful actions shall constitute a class B misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 13.04.040; amd. 2015 Code)
9-1-5: SERVICES IN NAME OF PROPERTY OWNER:
For residential and nonresidential structures with multiple units and one water
meter, only the owner of record or equity titleholder may apply for city
culinary water, secondary water or sewer services. All responsibility for
payment of culinary water, secondary water and sewer user fees will be the
responsibility of the owner of record or equity titleholder of multiple units.
(1984 Code § 13.04.050; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM USE AND SERVICE
ARTICLE A. WATER SYSTEM ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2A-1: City Control Over Waterworks
9-2A-2: Water Connection Fees
9-2A-3: Stopped Meter
9-2A-4: Service Rendered Outside City Boundaries
9-2A-5: Secondary Water System For Outdoor Use
9-2A-6: Permitting Unauthorized Persons To Use Water
9-2A-7: Water Fixtures Kept In Good Repair
9-2A-8: Wasting Water
9-2A-9: Taking Water Without Paying
9-2A-10: Taking Water After Turn Off
9-2A-11: Fountains And Sprinklers
9-2A-12: Sprinkling Trucks
9-2A-13: Watering Troughs
9-2A-14: Continuous Streams Of Water
9-2A-15: Interruption Of Water Supply; Nonliability Of City
9-2A-16: Posts Near Water Pipes
9-2A-17: Fire Hydrants; Control And Maintenance
9-2A-18: Fire Hydrants; Injuring Prohibited
9-2A-19: Right Of Access For Inspection
9-2A-1: CITY CONTROL OVER WATERWORKS:
The waterworks constructed by the city to supply the city with water from any
source shall be known and designated as the city waterworks. It shall be the
property of the city, and shall be under the sole and exclusive control of the
mayor and city council, who may from time to time direct (subject to the
limitations and conditions imposed by bonding ordinances and contracts) the
construction of such reservoirs, water tanks, water mains, service pipes and
fire hydrants as the necessities of the inhabitants of the city may require.
(1984 Code § 13.08.010)
9-2A-2: WATER CONNECTION FEES:
Water connection fees, including impact fees, shall be established annually by
the city council and adopted in the current city fee schedule. (1984 Code §
13.08.040; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2A-3: STOPPED METER:
Stopped meters or new meters for residential use up to and including fourplexes
shall pay double the base rate for the first dwelling unit, plus the base rate
for each additional dwelling unit until a reading can be obtained. Meters of
all other users may be read as often as monthly. However, if a meter is
stopped, the monthly water service charge may be estimated based upon usage in
previous years, not to exceed three (3) years. (1984 Code § 13.08.050; amd.
2015 Code)
9-2A-4: SERVICE RENDERED OUTSIDE CITY BOUNDARIES:
The city will not honor any new applications for water service outside of its
corporate boundaries. Existing users outside of the corporate boundaries shall
be subject to all laws and regulations of the city pertaining to water service.
In addition, they shall pay double the user rate as established by resolution
of the city council. (1984 Code § 13.08.060)
9-2A-5: SECONDARY WATER SYSTEM FOR OUTDOOR USE:
If there is a secondary water main in the street adjacent, or within close
proximity, the city culinary water shall not be used for outside uses such as
lawn watering, washing driveways, watering gardens, etc. Limited use for car
washing, animal watering, watering small plants, etc., will be permitted.
Secondary water shall be used for outdoor watering only, use of secondary water
for any indoor use is prohibited. (1984 Code § 13.08.080; amd. Ord. 42-2022, 8-
23-2022)
9-2A-6: PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS TO USE WATER:
It is unlawful for any water user to permit any person from other premises, or
any unauthorized person, to use or obtain water from his premises or water
fixtures, whether inside or outside of his building, and if any water user be
found guilty of so doing, his water supply may be cut off and the amount he has
paid forfeited to the city. (1984 Code § 13.08.090)
9-2A-7: WATER FIXTURES KEPT IN GOOD REPAIR:
All persons using water shall keep their service pipes, connections and other
water apparatus in good repair, and protected from frost at their own expense,
but no person, except under the direction of the superintendent, shall be
allowed to dig in the streets or sidewalks for the purpose of laying, removing
or repairing any service pipe. (1984 Code § 13.08.100)
9-2A-8: WASTING WATER:
It is unlawful for any water user to waste water, or allow it to be wasted by
negligence, by having imperfect stops and valves, or leaky joints or pipes, or
by allowing tanks to leak or overflow, or wastefully run it through basins or
other apparatus, or to use the water for purposes other than those which have
been paid for, or in violation of the rules and regulations for controlling the
water supply and the provisions of this chapter. Such violation shall
constitute a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any water user found guilty of violating the provisions of
this chapter, in addition to the criminal penalties imposed, may have his water
supply cut off and all payment forfeited, unless such person promptly pays such
additional charges as may be imposed by the city. (1984 Code § 13.08.110; amd.
2015 Code)
9-2A-9: TAKING WATER WITHOUT PAYING:
It is unlawful for any person by himself, family, servants or agents to take or
use water coming through the water mains without paying therefor as herein
provided, or without authority, to open any stopcock, valve, water meter or
other fixtures attached to the system of water supply, or in any way to injure,
deface or impair any part or any appurtenance of the waterworks, or to cast
anything into any reservoir or tank of the waterworks. (1984 Code § 13.08.120)
9-2A-10: TAKING WATER AFTER TURN OFF:
It is unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off from his
premises, on account of nonpayment of dues, or for violation of the rules and
regulations relating to the water supply, to turn the water on again or allow
the water to be used without authority. (1984 Code § 13.08.130)
9-2A-11: FOUNTAINS AND SPRINKLERS:
Fountains and sprinklers for lawns, gardens, yards or sidewalks shall not be
operated during a fire. No fountain attachment shall be greater than one-fourth
inch (1/4") in diameter, and there shall be a stopcock on each water meter,
which shall be under the control of the superintendent. (1984 Code § 13.08.140)
9-2A-12: SPRINKLING TRUCKS:
Sprinkling trucks and trucks for the delivery or distribution of water must be
filled from hydrants designated for that purpose, unless otherwise permitted by
the city council, and shall be regulated and controlled by the superintendent.
(1984 Code § 13.08.150)
9-2A-13: WATERING TROUGHS:
Watering troughs for watering animals or fowl shall not be allowed a constant
flow of water, but shall be allowed to use only such quantity as will supply
the actual wants of the animals or fowl having access thereto. (1984 Code §
13.08.160)
9-2A-14: CONTINUOUS STREAMS OF WATER:
Continuous streams of water shall not be permitted to flow from hydrants,
faucets or stops over washbasins, water closets or urinals, or from any
apparatus for drawing water. (1984 Code § 13.08.170)
9-2A-15: INTERRUPTION OF WATER SUPPLY; NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
The city corporation shall not be held liable for damage to any water user by
reason of any stoppage or interruption of its water supply, caused by scarcity
of water, accidents to work or mains, alterations, additions, repairs or other
unavoidable causes. (1984 Code § 13.08.180)
9-2A-16: POSTS NEAR WATER PIPES:
No telegraph or telephone posts, hitch or other posts shall be put down or set
within four feet (4') of any water service pipe, or within six feet (6') of any
main pipe. (1984 Code § 13.08.190; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2A-17: FIRE HYDRANTS; CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE:
All public fire hydrants shall be under the control of and shall be kept in
repair by the superintendent of waterworks, and in case of fire, the fire
department shall have free access to the hydrants. No other person shall open
or operate any fire hydrant, or attempt to draw water therefrom or obstruct the
approach thereto. (1984 Code § 13.08.210)
9-2A-18: FIRE HYDRANTS; INJURING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to run a vehicle against a fire hydrant or in any
way injure the same, or without authority, draw or attempt to draw water
therefrom. (1984 Code § 13.08.220)
9-2A-19: RIGHT OF ACCESS FOR INSPECTION:
Free access shall at all ordinary hours be allowed to the superintendent or
other authorized persons to all places supplied with water to examine the
apparatus, the amount used and the manner of using water, and any water user
violating any of the rules and regulations controlling the water supply, shall
forfeit all payments made and rights to use the water. (1984 Code § 13.08.230)
ARTICLE B. SECONDARY WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-2B-1: Secondary Water Division And System
9-2B-2: Superintendent
9-2B-3: Board Of Equalization, Rates And Rebates
9-2B-4: Use Without Payment Prohibited
9-2B-5: Turning On Water After Being Turned Off Prohibited
9-2B-6: Separate Connections
9-2B-7: Shutoff Valves
9-2B-8: Unauthorized Users
9-2B-9: Pipes Kept In Good Repair
9-2B-10: Right Of Access For Inspection
9-2B-11: Nonliability For Damages
9-2B-12: Water Not Supplied For Motors, Syphons, Engines
9-2B-13: Sprinklers
9-2B-14: Scarcity Of Water
9-2B-15: Water Meters
9-2B-16: Extension Of Secondary Water Mains
9-2B-17: Schedule Of Use
9-2B-18: Conveyance Of Private Water
9-2B-19: Penalties
9-2B-1: SECONDARY WATER DIVISION AND SYSTEM:
The secondary water division of the city is created. It shall administer the
operation and maintenance of the secondary water system of the city. The same
personnel and systems now used for operation of the culinary system will be
utilized for this purpose. (1984 Code § 13.10.010; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2B-2: SUPERINTENDENT:
The superintendent of the culinary system shall also be the superintendent of
the secondary water division. (1984 Code § 13.10.020)
9-2B-3: BOARD OF EQUALIZATION, RATES AND REBATES:
The city council is constituted a board of equalization of secondary water
rates to hear complaints and make corrections of any assessments deemed to be
illegal, unequal or unjust. (1984 Code § 13.10.080)
9-2B-4: USE WITHOUT PAYMENT PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person by himself, family, servants or agents to utilize
the secondary water system without paying therefor, as herein provided or,
without authority, to open any fire hydrant, stopcock, valve, or other fixtures
attached to the system of water supply unless it is done pursuant to proper
application, agreement or resolution. It is unlawful to injure, deface or
impair any part or appurtenance of the secondary water system, or to cast
anything into any reservoir belonging to the secondary water system. (1984 Code
§ 13.10.090)
9-2B-5: TURNING ON WATER AFTER BEING TURNED OFF PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, after the secondary water has been turned off
from the premises for nonpayment of secondary water charges or other violation
of the ordinances, rules, regulations or resolutions pertaining to the
secondary water supply, to turn on or allow the secondary water to be turned on
or used without authority from the city. (1984 Code § 13.10.110)
9-2B-6: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS:
It is unlawful for separately owned parcels to be supplied from the same city
maintained service valve unless special permission for such combination usage
has been granted by the city council and the premises served as are owned by
the same owner. In all such cases, a failure on the part of any one of the
users to comply with this section shall warrant a withholding of a supply of
water through the service connections until compliance of payment has been
made, and in any event, the property owner shall be primarily liable to the
city for all secondary water services utilized on all such premises. Nothing
herein shall be deemed to preclude the power of the city to require separate
pipes, connections or meters at a subsequent time. (1984 Code § 13.10.120)
9-2B-7: SHUTOFF VALVES:
Persons connecting to the secondary water system shall be required to provide
and install a stop and waste valve independent of the city shutoff valve with
which they may control the secondary water service to their premises. At no
time will a person be allowed to tamper with or operate the city shutoff valve
unless acting under the direction of the secondary water superintendent. (1984
Code § 13.10.130; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2B-8: UNAUTHORIZED USERS:
It is unlawful for any secondary water user to permit any person from other
premises or any unauthorized person to use or obtain secondary water services
regularly from his premises or secondary water facilities, either outside or
inside his premises. (1984 Code § 13.10.140)
9-2B-9: PIPES KEPT IN GOOD REPAIR:
All users of secondary water services shall keep their service pipes and
connections and other apparatus in good repair and protect from frost at their
own expense. No person, except under the direction of the secondary water
superintendent, shall be allowed to dig into the street for the purpose of
laying, removing or repairing any service pipe. (1984 Code § 13.10.150)
9-2B-10: RIGHT OF ACCESS FOR INSPECTION:
The secondary water superintendent and his agents shall at all ordinary hours
have free access to any place supplied with secondary water services from the
secondary water system for the purpose of examining the apparatus and
ascertaining the amount of secondary water service being used and the manner of
its use, and such access shall not be deemed a trespass on any such user's
property. (1984 Code § 13.10.160)
9-2B-11: NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The city shall not be liable for any damage to a secondary water service user
by reason of stoppage or interruption of his or her secondary water supply
service caused by fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the secondary water
system or its mains, caused by entry on a user's property, or which occurs as
the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from any other
unavoidable cause. This section shall not be construed to extend the liability
of the city beyond that provided in the governmental immunity act. (1984 Code §
13.10.170)
9-2B-12: WATER NOT SUPPLIED FOR MOTORS, SYPHONS, ENGINES:
No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the secondary water system for the
purpose of driving motor, syphon, turbine or other wheels, or any hydraulic
engines, or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose.
(1984 Code § 13.10.180; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2B-13: SPRINKLERS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to use such number of outlets
simultaneously or to use such sprinkler or combinations of sprinklers or
outlets as will in the opinion of the water superintendent materially affect
the pressure or supply of water in the secondary water system, or any part
thereof, and the city council may from time to time, by resolution, specify
combinations or numbers of outlets which may have such effect.
   B.   The water superintendent shall, after determining that such improper
use exists, notify the affected secondary water user or the owner of the
premises whereon such use occurs of such determination in writing, order such
use discontinued and advise that such continued usage constitutes a violation
of this section. (1984 Code § 13.10.190)
9-2B-14: SCARCITY OF WATER:
In time of scarcity of water, the mayor, with concurrence of the city council,
shall by proclamation, limit the use of secondary water to such extent as may
be necessary. The mayor shall have this authority without concurrence of the
city council in the case of an emergency. In this event, the proclamation shall
be reviewed at the next available regular meeting of the city council. It is
unlawful for any person, his family, servants or agents, to violate any
proclamation made by the mayor in pursuance of this chapter. (1984 Code §
13.10.200)
9-2B-15: WATER METERS:
Water meters shall be installed at each secondary water connection and the city
council may establish rates based upon water usage. (1984 Code § 13.10.220;
amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 41-2022, 8-23-2022)
9-2B-16: EXTENSION OF SECONDARY WATER MAINS:
Any person or persons, including any subdivider, who desires or is required to
have the secondary water mains extended within the city, shall do so at their
own expense in accordance with the city development standards. Any such
extension shall be deemed the property of the city. (1984 Code § 13.10.230)
9-2B-17: SCHEDULE OF USE:
The secondary water superintendent may prohibit the use of the secondary water
system during any period of time, by individual users, combinations of users,
or by all users, if the superintendent determines that watering is resulting in
a waste of water, or that use needs to be scheduled in order to meet the
demands of the secondary system. The irrigation of landscapes is prohibited
between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) a.m. and six o’clock (6:00) p.m. (1984
Code § 13.10.240; amd. Ord. 61-2022, 11-15-2022)
9-2B-18: CONVEYANCE OF PRIVATE WATER:
   A.   Current users of irrigation water from any irrigation company approved
and recognized by the city council in or around the city may make application
to the city to convey their water through the city secondary system, providing
they can be served by the system.
   B.   Eligibility for conveyance of water will be based on the water user
demonstrating that they currently own sufficient water to adequately irrigate
property upon which a connection is desired without drawing on city secondary
water. Eligibility will require the water user to have, at time of application
and maintain through period of use, the minimum number of water shares per acre
required by resolution. The applicant shall comply with all ordinances, rules
and regulations pertaining to the secondary system. Shares used in the
secondary irrigation must be allocated on a yearly basis.
   C.   Each shareholder must provide to the city a certificate from the
irrigation company showing the water shares to be dedicated for use in the city
secondary system for periods of not less than one year. (1984 Code § 13.10.260)
9-2B-19: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation: Any firm, corporation, person or persons, or any action in
behalf of the person, persons, firm or corporation, violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 13.10.270; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Each Day Violation Continues Deemed A Separate Offense: Each person,
persons, firm or corporation found guilty of violation shall be deemed guilty
of a separate offense for every day during which any violation of any provision
of this article is committed, continued or permitted by such person, persons,
firm or corporation, and shall be punishable as provided in subsection A of
this section. (1984 Code § 13.10.270)
ARTICLE C. SECONDARY WATER SYSTEM CONSERVATION
SECTION:
9-2C-1: Waste Of Water Prohibited; Time Period For Use
9-2C-2: Water Shortage Management Plan
9-2C-3: Enforcement, Penalty For Violations
9-2C-1: WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED; TIME PERIOD FOR USE:
   A.   Definitions: Waste of water from the secondary water system shall
include, but not be limited to:
      1.   The use of water for any purpose, including landscape irrigation,
which is wasteful as determined by the Water Department, which includes the
application of substantial amounts of excess water beyond the reasonable amount
required by the use, whether such excess water remains on the site, evaporates,
percolates underground, goes into the storm drain system, or is allowed to run
into the gutter or street. Every water consumer is deemed to have under his
control at all times the water lines and facilities, other than water utility
facilities, through which water is being supplied and used to his premises, and
to know the manner and extent of his water use and excess runoff.
      2.   The excessive use, loss or escape of water through breaks, leaks or
malfunctions in the water user's plumbing for any period of time after such
escape of water should reasonably have been discovered and corrected. It shall
be presumed that a period of forty eight (48) hours after the water user
discovers such break, leak or malfunction or receives notice from the City of
such condition, whichever occurs first, is a reasonable time to correct such
condition.
   B.   Waste Prohibited: Waste of water from the secondary water system is
prohibited.
   C.   Time Period For Secondary Water Use: Water from the secondary water
system can only be used from April 15 to October 15 regardless of when the
secondary water system is turned on or shut off. (Ord. 50-2018, 6-12-2018; amd.
Ord. 11-2022, 2-22-2022)
9-2C-2: WATER SHORTAGE MANAGEMENT PLAN:
   A.   Declaration Of Policy, Purpose And Intent: The Lehi City water shortage
management plan (hereafter referred to as the "plan") is intended to augment
and support the Lehi City water conservation plan, as well as relevant
ordinances. The primary purpose of the plan is to protect and preserve public
health, welfare and safety, as well as minimize the adverse impacts of a water
shortage. The plan will also provide clarity to elected officials, City staff,
and City residents as to the appropriate actions to take in the event of water
shortages.
   B.   Application: The provisions of this plan shall apply to all persons,
customers and property utilizing water provided by the City Water Division.
   C.   Pressurized Irrigation Water Sources: The City receives its pressurized
irrigation water from the following sources:
      Lehi City wells
      Central Utah Water
      Local irrigation company shares
      Deer Creek storage
      Miscellaneous sources
   D.   Determination Of Water Shortage Phases: The City Water Division
regularly monitors the level of City water sources. During the peak water usage
season (May, June, July, August and September), the City Water Division will
use data collected internally, as well as data provided from external sources
like the Provo River Water Users Association, to determine the drought
conditions in the City. Based on the level of water, the Water Division will
determine which water shortage phase will be implemented for that month.
   E.   Phase Responses: To help provide City water users (Municipal,
commercial and residential) with appropriate clarity regarding how to respond
to water shortages, the following phase system has been created. Each phase is
labeled with a color to better illustrate when a respective phase is in effect.
City water users will be informed of which phase is in effect in accordance
with section IX of the plan. The following is a summary of what actions are
taken in each phase.
      Phase I - Normal Water Condition (Green)
      Required actions: While phase I is in effect, water users are encouraged
to follow responsible watering habits. Common responsible watering practices
recommend watering no more than twice a week in May and June, three (3) times a
week in July and August, and twice a week in September.
      Phase II - Moderate Water Shortage (Yellow)
      Required actions:
         Lawn watering: Sprinkler irrigation is prohibited on consecutive days.
      Phase III - Severe Water Shortage (Red)
      Required actions:
         Lawn watering: Sprinkler irrigation is limited to no more than two (2)
days a week on non- consecutive days.
         No hard surface washing (except for health or safety).
   F.   Municipal Use Conservation Strategy: The City recognizes the need to
act as an example to the community with regards to water conservation,
especially in times of water shortage. To this end, the City will focus on
conserving Municipal water uses by focusing on the following areas:
      Supply:
         Filtration maintenance
         Flow meters
         Valve maintenance
         Sprinkler heads
         Evaporation rate:
         Plant species and related variables
         Cultural practice
         Water quality
      Environment above and below ground (climate factors include temperature,
solar radiation, humidity and wind velocity)
      Cultural practices:
         Mowing heights of three inches (3")
         Sharp mowing blades - sharpen weekly
         Core aeration - spring and early fall
         Slice aeration - as needed throughout the year (compaction issues)
         Overseeding using drought tolerant rye and tall fescue seed varieties
         Top dress using angular sands to maintain porosity (air/gas exchange)
         Nutrient support - N, P, K and Fe established through soil samples
         Amend soils - aggressive, long term mitigation program (amend pH
levels, heavy clays/sands, etc.)
      Development regulations:
         Create policies to encourage the use of xeriscape on new commercial
and multi-family residential projects, such as allowing design exceptions,
reduced parking requirements, etc.
         Consider policies to incentivize xeriscape on existing and new single-
family residential projects, including density bonuses in PUDs/PRDs, rebates
for turf removal, pressurized irrigation bill reduction, etc.
         Create better xeriscape design standards that provide for variety and
aesthetic appeal in landscape designs and discourage "zeroscape".
   G.   Public Notification And Education: Notifying and educating City water
users is vital to the success of the plan. As such, the City will focus on
notifying and educating the public through the following mechanisms:
      Website, social media, etc.: The City will rely heavily on its website
and social media platforms to communicate with the public regarding the plan.
This includes notifying the public regarding the water shortage phases that are
in effect, ways to better conserve water, educational information regarding the
City's water system, etc.
      Direct e-mail: The City will use its direct e-mail system to notify City
water users regarding applicable water shortage and conservation information.
      City newsletter: Not all City water users have access to and/or prefer
communicating electronically. Thus, the City will supplement its communication
efforts through its newsletter with applicable information, including water
shortage phases in effect, ways to better conserve water, educational
information regarding the City's water system, etc.
      City marquees: The City will post the current water phase on its roadside
marquees throughout the peak water usage months.
      Direct mail: When necessary, the City will use direct mail to notify City
water users of necessary water shortage and conservation measures. This step
will only be taken when it is determined that all other methods of
communication are insufficient based on specific circumstances. (Ord. 50-2018,
6-12-2018)
9-2C-3: ENFORCEMENT, PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Enforcement Strategy: In order to ensure that the City is able to
conserve water in times of water shortage and provide fire protection to its
residents and businesses, it is imperative that the City deploy an effective
enforcement strategy. The enforcement of water conservation measures outlined
in this plan are intended to be progressive in nature, with a focus on
educating water users about proper water conservation and reserving punitive
action for repeat violators.
   B.   Enforcement Authority: The City and its designees (the "City") are
authorized to enforce the provisions of this article.
   C.   Violations Of This Article And Penalties:
      1.   Violations shall be administered in compliance with the civil
infraction procedures described in title 7, chapter 3 of this Code.
      2.   First violation: Hand delivered written notice of violation and
information regarding how to take corrective action.
      3.   Second violation: One hundred dollar ($100.00) fine. Violator will
have the option to attend an educational seminar (individually or in a group)
provided by the City for further education regarding the City's water
conservation requirements and ways to conserve water. The violator will have
the one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine reimbursed by attending the seminar. The
violator will be warned of actions consequent to a third violation.
      4.   Third violation and each consecutive violation: Five hundred dollar
($500.00) fine.
   Exceptions are made for new lawns that require frequent irrigation for
establishment purposes for thirty (30) days after installation or planting.
Exceptions are also made for short cycles required for testing, inspecting and
maintaining irrigation systems. (Ord. 50-2018, 6-12-2018)
ARTICLE D. DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
SECTION:
9-2D-1: Short Title And Purpose
9-2D-2: Definitions
9-2D-3: Drinking Water Source Protection Zones Established
9-2D-4: Permitted Uses
9-2D-5: Prohibited Uses
9-2D-6: Administration
9-2D-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This article shall be known as the DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
ORDINANCE.
   B.   The purpose of this article is to ensure the provision of a safe and
sanitary drinking water supply for the city by establishment of drinking water
source protection zones surrounding the wellheads and springs which are the
supply sources for the city culinary water system and also by the designation
and regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within
such zones. (Ord. 39-2012, 11-13-2012)
9-2D-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
DESIGN STANDARD: A control which is implemented relating to a potential
contamination source to prevent discharges to the groundwater. Spill protection
is an example of a design standard.
LAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES: Zoning and nonzoning controls which include, but
are not limited to, the following: zoning and subdivision ordinances, site plan
reviews, design and operating standards, source prohibitions, purchase of
property and development rights, public education programs, groundwater
monitoring, household hazardous waste collection programs, water conservation
programs, memoranda of understanding, written contracts and agreements, and so
forth.
POLLUTION SOURCE: Point source discharges of contaminants to groundwater or
potential discharges of the liquid forms of "extremely hazardous substances"
which are stored in containers in excess of "applicable threshold planning
quantities" as specified in SARA title III. Examples of possible pollution
sources include, but are not limited to, the following: storage facilities that
store the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks,
drainfields, class V underground injection wells, landfills, open dumps,
landfilling of sludge and septage, manure piles, salt piles, pit privies and
animal feeding operations with more than ten (10) animal units. The following
clarify the definition of pollution source:
   A.    Animal Feeding Operation: A lot or facility where the following
conditions are met: animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period, and crops, vegetation, forage growth or postharvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered
to be a single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a
common area, or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
   B.    Animal Unit: A unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation
calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of slaughter and feeder
cattle multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by
1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over fifty five (55) pounds multiplied
by 0.4, plus the number of sheep multiplied by 0.1, plus the number of horses
multiplied by 2.0.
   C.    Extremely Hazardous Substances: Those substances which are identified
in section 302(EHS) column of the "Title III List Of Lists - Consolidated List
Of Chemicals Subject To Reporting Under SARA Title III" (EPA 560/4-91-011).
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: Any facility or site which employs an activity
or procedure which may potentially contaminate groundwater. A pollution source
is also a potential contamination source.
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over hazardous
waste, as defined herein.
SEPTIC TANK/DRAINFIELD SYSTEMS: A system which is comprised of a septic tank
and a drainfield which accepts domestic wastewater from buildings or facilities
for subsurface treatment and disposal. By their design, septic tank/drainfield
system discharges cannot be controlled with design standards.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments. (Ord. 39-2012, 11-13-2012)
9-2D-3: DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION ZONES ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established use districts to be known as zones one, two, three,
four and five of the drinking water source protection area, identified and
described as follows:
   A.   Zone one: The area within a one hundred foot (100') radius from the
wellhead or the margin of the spring source collection area.
   B.   Zone two: Applies only to wellheads. The area within a two hundred
fifty (250) day groundwater time of travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the
aquifer which supplies water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater
divide, whichever is closer.
   C.   Zone three (waiver criteria zone): Applies only to wellheads. The area
within a three (3) year groundwater time to travel to the wellhead or margin of
the collection area, the boundary of the aquifer which supplies water to the
groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer.
   D.   Zone four: Applies only to wellheads. The area within a fifteen (15)
year groundwater time of travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer
which supplies water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide,
whichever is closer.
   E.   Zone five: Applies only to springs. This is referred to as the drinking
water source protection (DWSP) management area. This zone comprises all land at
elevations equal to or higher than, and within a two (2) mile radius of, the
spring collection area. The DWSP management area also includes all land lower
in elevation than, and within one hundred (100) horizontal feet of the spring
collection area. The elevation datum to be used is the point of water
collection. Land can be excluded from the DWSP management area at locations
where it is separated from the groundwater source by a surface drainage which
is lower in elevation than the spring collection area. (Ord. 39-2012, 11-13-
2012)
9-2D-4: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted within the drinking water source
protection zones:
   A.   Any use permitted within the existing agricultural, single- family
residential, multi-family residential and commercial districts so long as uses
conform to the rules and regulations of the regulatory agencies.
   B.   Any other open land use where any building is located on the property
is incidental and accessory to the primary open land use. (Ord. 39-2012, 11-13-
2012)
9-2D-5: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses or conditions shall be and hereby are prohibited within
drinking water sources protection zones, whether or not such use or condition
may otherwise be ordinarily included as part of a use permitted under section
9-2D-4 of this article:
   A.   Zone One: No uncontrolled potential contamination sources are allowed
with zone one.
   B.   Zone Two: The location of a pollution source unless its contaminated
discharges can be controlled with design standards.
   C.   Zones Three And Four: The location of a potential contamination source
unless it can be controlled through land management strategies.
   D.   Zone Five: The location of a pollution source unless its contaminated
discharges can be controlled with design standards. (Ord. 39-2012, 11-13-2012)
9-2D-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any source protection zone
established under this article, including, without limitation, those applicable
to nonconforming uses, exception, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same
as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the city, as the same is
presently enacted or may from time to time be amended. (Ord. 39-2012, 11-13-
2012)
ARTICLE E. CROSS CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION
SECTION:
9-2E-1: Cross Connection And Backflow Prevention
9-2E-1: CROSS CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION:
   A.   As a condition of connection, it shall be unlawful for any connection
to the city distribution system to do any of the following:
      1.   Installation or usage of any physical connection or arrangement of
piping or fixtures that may allow fluids or substances which would affect the
quality of the drinking water.
      2.   Installation of any connection, arrangement or fixture without a
backflow prevention device or assembly that does not meet all requirements as
outlined in the plumbing code or in accordance with the requirements of the
city when the location of the backflow preventer is not covered in the plumbing
code.
   B.   The city water department official, backflow technician and building
inspector have the right to enter any location (upon 24 hour notice) supplied
with the city culinary water distribution system in order to conduct a hazard
survey, examine what exists and/or test any backflow preventer, when necessary
to the enforcement of this section.
   C.   Any user of the city culinary water distribution system will be
responsible for all costs associated with the installation, testing and repairs
of their backflow preventer.
   D.   Backflow prevention devices or assemblies will be required to be tested
no later than ten (10) days after installation, relocating, usage or repairs,
and at least once a year, unless otherwise required to ensure the safety of the
city culinary water distribution system.
      1.   The city culinary water department will be responsible to notify the
owner of assembly that they need to have the assembly tested within a month of
the annual due date of when the assembly needs to be tested. Notification will
be sent return receipt as proof of notice.
      2.   All test reports will need to be furnished to the city culinary
water department and owner of the assembly by the certified tester for each
assembly tested.
   E.   Backflow assemblies and devices may be required for meter protection.
Multiple assemblies may be required for meter protection to protect the city
culinary water distribution system from the structure receiving water service.
If backflow assembly is required for meter protection, the assembly will be
installed as close to the meter as possible according to city standards.
   F.   No culinary water will be used at any time for landscape sprinkling
systems where pressurized irrigation is present or available to the property.
   G.   There shall be no connection allowed between the pressurized irrigation
system and the city culinary water distribution system. The city has determined
a swing connection will not be allowed, due to the fact that pressurized
irrigation system is under pressure year round.
   H.   Approved backflow assemblies and devices should never be removed,
bypassed or disconnected for any reason without approval by the water
department.
   I.   The city recognizes and follows the international plumbing code as
adopted by the state public drinking water regulations, and city ordinances and
standards. The city reserves the right to be more strict than these codes if
the situation requires it.
   J.   The city reserves the right to discontinue water service or services to
any user who is found to be in violation of this section and who fails to take
corrective action within ten (10) calendar days after notification of said
violation, except that water service may be disconnected immediately if said
violation poses an immediate threat to the culinary water supply of the city
and its users.
   K.   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be held
civilly liable to the city and to third parties other than the city for all
damages proximately caused by said violation. (Ord. 10-12-10.9, 10-12-2010)
CHAPTER 3
STORMWATER
SECTION:
9-3-1: General
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Stormwater System Design
9-3-4: Stormwater System Construction
9-3-5: Stormwater System Operation And Maintenance
9-3-6: Illicit Discharges
9-3-7: Enforcement
9-3-8: Penalties
9-3-9: Appeals
9-3-10: Inspections
9-3-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to:
      1.   Protect, maintain, and enhance the environment of Lehi City;
      2.   Establish responsibilities for controlling and managing stormwater
runoff;
      3.   Protect the public health, safety and the general welfare of the
citizens of the City by controlling discharges of pollutants to the City's
stormwater system and to maintain and improve the quality of the receiving
waters into which the stormwater outfalls flow, including, without limitation,
lakes, rivers, streams, ponds, wetlands, and groundwater of the City and State;
      4.   Enable the City to comply with the National and Utah Pollution
Discharge Elimination System permits (NPDES/UPDES) and applicable regulations
in 40 CFR section 122.26 for stormwater discharges;
      5.   Allow the City to exercise the powers granted by Utah Code, which
provides that, among other powers municipalities have with respect to
stormwater facilities, the City may:
         a.   Exercise general regulation over the planning, location,
construction, and operation and maintenance of stormwater facilities in the
Municipality, whether or not owned and operated by the Municipality;
         b.   Adopt any rules and regulations deemed necessary to accomplish
the purposes of this statute, including the adoption of a system of fees for
services and permits;
         c.   Establish standards to regulate the quantity of stormwater
discharged and to regulate stormwater contaminants as may be necessary to
protect water quality;
         d.   Review and approve plans and plats for stormwater management in
proposed subdivisions or commercial developments, and other projects whether
public or private;
         e.   Suspend or revoke permits when it is determined that the
permittee has violated any applicable ordinance, resolution, or condition of
the permit;
         f.   Regulate and prohibit discharges into stormwater facilities of
sanitary, industrial, or commercial sewage or waters that have otherwise been
contaminated; and
         g.   Expend funds to remediate or mitigate the detrimental effects of
negatively affected land or other sources of stormwater contamination, whether
public or private.
   B.   City Shall Administer The Provisions Of This Chapter: Nothing in this
chapter shall relieve any person from responsibility for damage to other
persons or property, nor impose upon City, its officers, agents or employees,
any liability for damage to other persons or property. (Ord. 99-2018, 11-13-
2018)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BMPs: Means physical, structural, or managerial
practices that, when used singly or in combination, prevent or reduce pollution
of water and that have been approved by Lehi City. The relevant BMPs are more
particularly defined in Lehi City's Guidance Document for Stormwater
Management.
CITY: Means the City of Lehi or authorized designee.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES: Means activities as defined in the stormwater
construction permit.
CONTAMINANT: Means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological
substance or matter in water.
DISCHARGE: Means dispose, deposit, spill, pour, inject, seep, dump, leak or
place by any means, or that which is disposed, deposited, spilled, poured,
injected, seeped, dumped, leaked, or placed by any means including any direct
or indirect entry of any solid or liquid matter into the Municipal separate
storm sewer system.
EASEMENT: Means an acquired privilege or right of use or enjoyment that a
person, party, firm, corporation, municipality or other legal entity has in the
land of another.
EROSION: Means the removal of soil particles by the action of water, wind, ice
or other geological agents, whether naturally occurring or acting in
conjunction with or promoted by anthropogenic activities or effects.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: Means illegal or unauthorized connections to the Municipal
separate stormwater system whether or not such connections result in discharges
into that system.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Means any discharge to the Municipal separate storm sewer
system that is not composed entirely of stormwater and not specifically
exempted under this chapter.
LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID): Is an approach to land development or re-
development that works with nature to more closely mimic pre-development
hydrologic functions. LID employs principles such as preserving and recreating
natural landscape features, minimizing effective imperviousness to create
functional and appealing site drainage that treat stormwater as a resource
rather than a waste product. There are many practices that have been used to
adhere to these principals such as bio retention facilities, rain gardens,
vegetated roof tops, rain barrels, and permeable pavements.
MS4 PERMIT: Means the general permit for discharges for Small Municipal
Separate Storm Sewer Systems (MS4), permit latest version.
MAINTENANCE: Means any activity that is necessary to keep a stormwater facility
in good working order so as to function as designed. Maintenance shall include
complete reconstruction of a stormwater facility if reconstruction is needed in
order to restore the facility to its original operational design parameters.
Maintenance shall also include the correction of any problem on the site
property that may directly impair the functions of the stormwater facility.
MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT: Means a document recorded in the land records that acts
as a property deed restriction, and which provides for long-term maintenance of
stormwater management practices.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): Means the conveyances owned or
operated by the City for the collection and transportation of stormwater,
including the roads and streets and their drainage systems, catch basins,
curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels, and storm drains.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT OR NPDES PERMIT: Means a
permit issued pursuant to 33 USC 1342.
NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOV): Means a written notice of violation by the City to
the responsible person, issued whenever the City finds that a person is in non-
compliance with this chapter. Requirements in this notice are at the discretion
of the City and may include monitoring, payment to cover costs relating to the
non-compliance, and the implementation of Best Management Practices.
PERSON: Means any and all entities, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm or association and any municipal or private corporation
organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or country.
PRE-DEVELOPMENT: Means the status of an item prior to any modification, or in
other words, native condition.
PROPERTY OWNER: Means landowner of property within the boundary of Lehi City.
QUALIFIED PERSON: Is a person knowledgeable in the principles and practice of
erosion and sediment controls and pollution prevention, who possesses the
skills to assess conditions at the construction site that could impact
stormwater quality and the skills to assess the effectiveness of any stormwater
controls selected and installed to meet the requirements of the Utah
construction general permit.
RUNOFF: Means that portion of water or precipitation on a drainage area that is
discharged from the area into the Municipal separate stormwater system.
SEDIMENT: Means solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
SEDIMENTATION: Means soil particles suspended in stormwater that can settle in
streambeds and disrupt the natural flow of the stream.
STORMWATER: Means stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff, surface runoff, street
wash waters related to street cleaning or maintenance, infiltration and
drainage.
STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION PERMIT: Means stormwater general permit for
construction activities permit latest version as required by the Utah
Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Water Quality.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT: Means the programs to maintain quality and quantity of
stormwater runoff to pre-development levels.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): Means the set of drawings and
other documents that comprise all the information and specifications for the
programs, drainage systems, structures, BMPs, concepts and techniques intended
to maintain or restore quality and quantity of stormwater runoff to pre-
development levels during and after construction.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: Means that portion of stormwater on a drainage area that is
discharged from the area into the Municipal separate stormwater system.
STORMWATER UTILITY: Means the stormwater utility created by ordinance of the
City to administer the stormwater management ordinance, and other stormwater
rules and regulations adopted by the Municipality.
STRUCTURAL BMPs: Means devices that are constructed to provide control of
stormwater runoff.
SURFACE WATER: Includes waters upon the surface of the earth in bounds created
naturally or artificially including, but not limited to, streams, other
watercourses, lakes and reservoirs.
UPDES: Means Utah Pollution Discharge Elimination System. (Ord. 99-2018, 11-13-
2018)
9-3-3: STORMWATER SYSTEM DESIGN:
   A.   Standards Conformance: Stormwater system design and construction
documents shall conform to the standards adopted by the City.
   B.   Design And Quality Requirements: Stormwater outfall design and water
quality shall meet Federal, State and local discharge requirements.
   C.   Construction Performance Criteria: Unless granted a waiver or judged by
the City Engineer to be exempt, the following postconstruction performance
criteria shall be addressed for stormwater management at all sites:
      1.   Design of storm drain systems within City boundaries and that
discharge into a Lehi City storm drain system requires direct supervision of a
Utah registered professional engineer, and shall carry the seal of the same
supervising professional engineer. Site designs shall control the peak flow
rates of stormwater discharge.
      2.   Calculations for determining allowable peak flows and runoff volumes
as found in the LID Handbook shall be used for sizing all stormwater
facilities.
   D.   Minimum Control Requirements: Stormwater discharge during all
construction activities shall comply with the terms of the UPDES stormwater
general permit for construction activities, land disturbance permit, the
Stormwater Design Standards and Regulations, and requirements set forth by the
Building Code and the State of Utah UPDES requirements. (Ord. 99-2018, 11-13-
2018)
9-3-4: STORMWATER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Technical Requirements: Erosion and sediment control practices on
construction sites shall meet the technical requirements as required in the
stormwater construction permit.
   B.   Erosion And Sediment Control Practices: Erosion and sediment control
practices shall be applied to all construction activities required by the
stormwater construction permit including new development and redevelopment.
   C.   SWPPP Required: All construction activities listed under stormwater
construction permit shall prepare a SWPPP in accordance with the permit. The
SWPPP shall be submitted and reviewed by the City prior to application for the
permit.
   D.   Erosion And Sediment BMPs: Erosion and sediment BMPs used for
construction activities, listed on the SWPPP and sediment and erosion control
plans shall protect water quality, reduce the discharge of pollutants, and
control waste such as, but not limited to soils, sediment, oils, discarded
building materials, concrete truck washout, chemicals, litter and sanitary
waste that may cause adverse impact to water quality.
   E.   Meeting Requirements: Each application shall be accompanied by a SWPPP
providing for erosion and sediment control and stormwater management during the
land disturbing activity and after the activity has been completed meeting the
requirements of stormwater general permit for construction activities permit.
   F.   Postconstruction Landscaping And Stabilization Requirements: Any area
of land from which the natural vegetative cover has been either partially or
wholly cleared by development activities shall be revegetated according to a
schedule approved by the City Engineer. Stabilization must occur as required in
the stormwater general permit for construction activities permit. (Ord. 99-
2018, 11-13-2018)
9-3-5: STORMWATER SYSTEM OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Permit Requirement Conformance: Operation and maintenance of stormwater
facilities within the City shall be in conformance with the requirements of the
MS4 permit.
   B.   Stormwater Infrastructure On Private Land: All stormwater
infrastructure located on private land or that is to be accessed through
private land, must have access easements for the purpose of inspection and
repair. These easements must be binding on the current property owner and all
subsequent owners, heirs and successors of the property and must be properly
recorded in the land record.
   C.   Privately Owned Stormwater Infrastructure:
      1.   Where the City chooses to not inspect, operate or maintain
stormwater infrastructure, responsibility for the maintenance and repair of
stormwater facilities shall be assigned to the owner of the property upon which
the facility is located and be recorded against the property by appropriate
notation.
      2.   Where stormwater infrastructure is not maintained or repaired within
the prescribed schedule, the City shall perform the maintenance and repair at
its expense, and bill the same to the property owner. In the event that payment
is not made, the City's cost of performing the maintenance shall be a lien
against the property.
   D.   Maintenance Easements: The applicant shall ensure access to the site
for the purpose of inspection and repair by securing all the maintenance
easements needed. These easements must be binding on the current property owner
and all subsequent owners, heirs and successors of the property and must be
properly recorded in the land record.
   E.   Maintenance Agreement: The owner of property to be served by an on-site
stormwater management facility shall execute an inspection and maintenance
agreement that shall operate as a deed restriction binding on the current
property owner and all subsequent property owners, heirs and successors. The
maintenance agreement shall:
      1.   Assign responsibility for the maintenance and repair of the
stormwater facility to the owner of the property upon which the facility is
located and be recorded as such on the plat for the property by appropriate
notation;
      2.   Provide for annual inspection by the property owner for the purpose
of documenting maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with the
purpose and requirements of this chapter. The property owner will arrange for
this inspection to be conducted by a registered stormwater inspector or
registered professional engineer licensed to practice in the State of Utah who
will submit a sealed report of the inspection to the City;
      3.   Provide that maintenance needs shall be addressed in a timely
manner, on a schedule to be approved by the City; and
      4.   Provide that if the property is not maintained or repaired within
the prescribed schedule, the City shall perform the maintenance and repair at
its expense, and bill the same to the property owner. The maintenance agreement
shall also provide that the City's cost of performing the maintenance shall be
a lien against the property.
   F.   Dedication: The City shall have the discretion to accept the dedication
of any existing or future stormwater management facility, provided such
facility meets the requirements of this chapter, and includes adequate and
perpetual access and sufficient areas, by easement or otherwise, for inspection
and regular maintenance. Any stormwater facility accepted by the City shall
also meet the City's construction standards and any other standards and
specifications that apply to the particular stormwater facility in question.
(Ord. 99-2018, 11-13-2018)
9-3-6: ILLICIT DISCHARGES:
   A.   Scope: This section shall apply to all water generated on developed or
undeveloped land entering the City's separate storm sewer system. Prior
situations or conditions are not exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Prohibition Of Illicit Discharges: No person shall introduce or cause
to be introduced into the Municipal separate storm sewer system any discharge
that is not composed entirely of stormwater. The commencement, conduct or
continuance of any non-stormwater discharge to the Municipal separate storm
sewer system is prohibited except as described in the MS4 permit.
   C.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections: The construction, use, maintenance
or continued existence of illicit connections to the separate Municipal storm
sewer system is prohibited.
   D.   Reduction Of Stormwater Pollutants By The Use Of Best Management
Practices: Any person responsible for a property or premises, which is, or may
be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at the
person's expense, the BMPs necessary to prevent the further discharge of
pollutants to the Municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all
terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of
stormwater associated with industrial activity shall be deemed compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   E.   Stockpiling Of Materials In City Rights-Of-Way: Stockpiling of
materials in City rights-of-way shall be reviewed and approved by the City
prior to placement. Approved BMPs associated with stockpiling of material must
be implemented and shown on the SWPPP.
   F.   Notification Of Spills: In the event of a release of hazardous
materials, the person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of
the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of
non-hazardous materials, the person shall notify the City in person or by
telephone or facsimile no later than the next business day. Notifications in
person or by telephone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and
mailed to the City within three (3) business days of the telephone notice. If
the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least five (5) years.
   G.   Clean Up Of Spills: Within the requirements of the law, as soon as any
person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency
response for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected
release of materials which are resulting in, or may result in, illicit
discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater or the Municipal separate
storm sewer system, the person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. (Ord. 99-2018, 11-13-2018)
9-3-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Authority: The City shall have the authority to issue
notices of violation, stop work orders, and citations, and to impose the
criminal and civil penalties provided in this chapter.
   B.   Notification Of Violation:
      1.   Written Notice: Whenever the City finds that any person discharging
stormwater has violated or is violating this chapter or a permit or order
issued hereunder, the City will serve upon the owner, occupant, or persons
conducting operations on the property, written notice of the violation. Such
notice will identify the date of the violation, the conditions violating this
chapter and give notice that they must be corrected within the next forty eight
(48) hours to ten (10) calendar days, depending on the severity of the
violation, as determined by the registered stormwater inspector. Within one
business day of receiving this notice, the person shall submit to the City an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions. Submission of this
plan in no way relieves the discharger of liability for any violations
occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
         a.   Consent Orders: The City is empowered to enter into consent
orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the person to correct
the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order. Consent
orders shall have the same force and effect as administrative orders issued
pursuant to subsections B1b and B1c of this section.
         b.   Compliance Order: When the City finds that any person has
violated or continues to violate this chapter or a permit or order issued
thereunder, the City may issue an order to the violator directing that,
following a specific time period, adequate structures, and devices be installed
or procedures implemented and properly operated. Orders may also contain such
other requirements as might be reasonably necessary and appropriate to address
the noncompliance, including the construction of appropriate structures,
installation of devices, self-monitoring, and management practices.
         c.   Cease And Desist Orders: When the City finds that any person has
violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit or order issued
hereunder, the City may issue an order to cease and desist all such violations
and direct those persons in noncompliance to:
            (1)   Comply forthwith; or
            (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge. (Ord. 99-2018, 11-13-2018)
9-3-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Minor Violations: In minor violations, as determined by a qualified
stormwater inspector, a civil penalty may be implemented. Such penalty shall be
consistent with the severity of the violation. Penalties for specific
infractions are established by resolution through the City Council and are
listed in the consolidated fee schedule.
   B.   Criminal Penalties, As Determined By The Registered Stormwater
Inspectors, First Offense: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter
for the first time may be charged with a Class C misdemeanor. Fines may be
assessed per day for each violation.
   C.   Criminal Penalties Second Offense: Any person violating the provisions
of this chapter for the second time may be charged with a Class B misdemeanor.
Fines may be assessed per day for each violation.
   D.   Measuring Civil Penalties: In assessing a civil penalty, the City may
consider:
      1.   The harm done to the public health or the environment;
      2.   Whether the civil penalty imposed will be a substantial economic
deterrent to the illegal activity;
      3.   The economic benefit gained by the violator;
      4.   The amount of effort put forth by the violator to remedy this
violation;
      5.   Any unusual or extraordinary enforcement costs incurred by the City;
      6.   The amount of penalty established by ordinance or resolution for
specific categories of violations; and
      7.   Any equities of the situation, which outweigh the benefit of
imposing any penalty or damage assessment.
   E.   Recovery Of Damages And Costs: In addition to the civil penalty in
subsection A of this section, the City may recover:
      1.   All damages proximately caused by the violator to the City, which
may include any reasonable expenses incurred in investigating violations of,
and enforcing compliance with, this chapter, or any other actual damages caused
by the violation;
      2.   The costs of the City's maintenance of stormwater facilities when
the user of such facilities fails to maintain them as required by this chapter;
and
      3.   Recovery of costs, including attorney's fees, imposed on the City by
State or Federal entities.
   F.   Other Remedies: The City may bring legal action to enjoin the
continuing violation of this chapter, and the existence of any other remedy, at
law or equity, shall be no defense to any such actions.
   G.   Remedies Cumulative: The remedies set forth in this section shall be
cumulative, not exclusive, and it shall not be a defense to any action, civil
or criminal, that one or more of the remedies set forth in this section has
been sought or granted. (Ord. 99-2018, 11-13-2018)
9-3-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals To The Appeal Authority: Any person aggrieved by the imposition
of a civil penalty or damage assessment as provided by this chapter may appeal
the penalty or damage assessment to the City's Appeal Authority.
   B.   Appeals To Be In Writing: The appeal shall be in writing and filed with
the City Recorder within fifteen (15) days after the civil penalty or damage
assessment is served in any manner authorized by law.
   C.   Hearing: Upon receipt of an appeal, the City's Appeal Authority shall
hold a hearing within thirty (30) days. Ten (10) days' notice by certified mail
shall also be provided to the aggrieved party, such notice to be sent to the
address provided by the aggrieved party at the time of appeal. The decision of
the Appeal Authority shall be final.
   D.   Appealing Decisions Of The City's Appeal Authority: Any alleged
violator may appeal a decision of the Appeal Authority. Any appeal of the
Appeal Authority's decision must be made to the District Court within thirty
(30) days from when the written decision is made. (Ord. 99-2018, 11-13-2018)
9-3-10: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Purpose: Per the MS4 permit, the City will conduct inspections to
monitor all discharges to natural water bodies including lakes, rivers, stream
and canals, stormwater controls and BMPs.
   B.   Scope: Inspections relating to the MS4 permit include but are not
limited to illicit discharges, construction activities and post-construction
operation and maintenance of stormwater controls, reviewing maintenance and
repair records; sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material
or water in drainage control facilities; and evaluating the condition of
drainage control facilities and other BMPs either publicly or privately owned.
   C.   Access:
      1.   Visual Inspections: Visual inspections by the City of discharges to
natural water bodies, spills and stormwater related controls on private
property within the City limits are permitted by the City at any time.
      2.   Other Inspections: When a visual inspection is not adequate to
determine the extent of discharges to natural water bodies, spills or determine
the status of stormwater related controls on private property, real or suspect,
the City will give twenty four (24) hours' notice of the inspection to take
place and the extent of the inspection. Equipment and manpower necessary to
perform the inspection will be allowed to access and work as necessary to
determine the state of the situation.
      3.   Emergency Inspections: During times of emergency including
discharges to natural water bodies, spills or potential damage to life or
property, real or suspect, the City may access the location of concern on
private property as necessary and with the equipment required to determine the
status of the situation. Reasonable attempts to contact the property owner
prior to the inspection shall be made prior to accessing private property.
   D.   Fees For Inspections: Fees for inspections shall be as adopted by
resolution of the City Council and listed on the consolidated fee schedule.
(Ord. 99-2018, 11-13-2018)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER SYSTEM USE AND SERVICE
ARTICLE A. SEWER SYSTEM ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4A-1: Extension Of Sewer System
9-4A-2: Time Limit For Sewer Connection
9-4A-3: Sewer Connection Fees And Related Charges
9-4A-4: Sewer Treatment Facilities Impact Fee
9-4A-5: Penalties
9-4A-1: EXTENSION OF SEWER SYSTEM:
City sewer lines shall be extended in accordance with the requirements of
chapter 6 of this title. (1984 Code § 13.12.010)
9-4A-2: TIME LIMIT FOR SEWER CONNECTION:
It is unlawful for the owner or other person having charge of or occupying any
property upon which a building shall have been or is being constructed for
residential, commercial or industrial use, any part of which building is within
three hundred feet (300') of any street, alley or way in which a public sewer
is then in existence and used in the city, to construct or permit to be
constructed or to use or permit to be used any privy vault, septic tank or
cesspool connected with such building. Each such owner or other person shall,
within ninety (90) days after having been given notice by the city that an
accepted public sewer is ready to receive connections therewith, cause such
building to be connected with the sewer (except that if such building shall not
at the time such notice is given have therein any toilet or toilets, the owner
or other person having charge thereof or occupying such building shall have a
period of 2 years in which to connect it with such public sewer) and it shall
thereafter be unlawful for such owner or other person to have the plumbing in
such building remain unconnected to the public sewer or to maintain or use or
cause or permit to exist any privy vault, septic tank or cesspool to which the
building is connected or which is used by the occupant thereof. Whenever an
accepted public sewer is available to receive connections therewith, the
manager of the system shall cause appropriate notice to be served upon the
owner, agent or other person having charge of or occupying all property coming
within the scope of this section, that the public sewer is ready to receive
connections therewith and that all plumbing must be connected with such sewer.
(1984 Code § 13.12.020)
9-4A-3: SEWER CONNECTION FEES AND RELATED CHARGES:
   A.   For all property owners who shall sign applications for connection to a
city sewer line, there shall be charged connection fees as established annually
by the city council in the city fee schedule. (1984 Code § 13.12.040; amd. 2015
Code)
   B.   The city shall and does reserve the right, however, to install stub
lines where it deems advisable so as to prevent future tearing up of streets
and inconvenience to the public, and, in such event, there shall be no right of
use acquired by the property or property owner to which the stub has been
installed by the city, and the city shall not allow the use of such stub unless
and until the owner of the property to be served has paid to the city the
required connection fee.
   C.   The installer or connector shall be responsible to extend the lateral,
connect the service and shall provide necessary labor and materials and shall
replace road base and hard surfacing under the supervision and control of the
city inspector, at no expense to the city, and in compliance with the city
development standards and public improvement specifications. (1984 Code §
13.12.040)
9-4A-4: SEWER TREATMENT FACILITIES IMPACT FEE:
   A.   An impact fee (the "impact fee") is imposed as a condition to receive a
building permit granted by the city. The amount of the impact fee shall be as
established annually by the city council in the city fee schedule. (1984 Code §
13.12.055; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   The entire area of the city and all areas outside the city serviced by
the city sewage collection system are within the service area of TSSD and
within the service area of the city and the impact fee shall be applied
throughout the city and to all properties which connect to the city sewage
collection system.
   C.   The city may adjust the impact fee at the time the fee is charged to
respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases and may adjust the impact
fee, if necessary, to ensure that the impact fee is imposed fairly as may be
provided in Utah Code Annotated section 11-36-201 et seq., as amended.
   D.   The amount of the impact fee imposed on a particular development may be
adjusted based upon studies and data submitted by the developer requesting a
building permit as may be provided in Utah Code Annotated section 11-36-201 et
seq., as amended.
   E.   The staff of the city shall establish accounting procedures for the
impact fees in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 11-36-301, as
amended.
   F.   The impact fees may be expended only for payment of the capital
facilities charges imposed by TSSD and shall be remitted to TSSD for that
purpose in accordance with the treatment services contract and all amendments
and/or supplements thereto.
   G.   The impact fee shall be refunded to a developer, with interest, in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 11-36-303, as amended. No refund
shall be made unless the requirements of that section are met.
   H.   The impact fee may be challenged in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
section 11-36-401, as amended, and the procedures set forth therein. (1984 Code
§ 13.12.055)
9-4A-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any firm, corporation, person or persons, or any action in behalf of
the person, persons, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 13.12.060; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. Each
person, persons, firm, or corporation found guilty of violation shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for every day during which any violation of any
provision of this chapter is committed, continued, or permitted by such person,
persons, firm or corporation, and shall be punishable as provided in subsection
A of this section. (1984 Code § 13.12.060)
ARTICLE B. COMPREHENSIVE SEWER USE
SECTION:
Division 1. Abbreviations And Definitions
9-4B-1: Abbreviations
9-4B-2: Definitions
Division 2. Relationship Between City And District
9-4B-3: Ownership Of Lines; Sewage Treatment By District
9-4B-4: District To Charge For Services
9-4B-5: Authority To District Superintendent And Representatives
9-4B-6: Application To City And Users Contracting With City
Division 3. Use Of Public Sewers Required
9-4B-7: Unlawful To Deposit Waste
9-4B-8: Unlawful To Discharge Sewage To Natural Outlets
9-4B-9: Unlawful To Use Private Sewage Systems
9-4B-10: Connection To City Sewer System Required
Division 4. Private Wastewater Disposal
9-4B-11: Use Of Private System
9-4B-12: Permit Required
9-4B-13: Inspection
9-4B-14: Private System Requirements
9-4B-15: Connect To City Sewer System
9-4B-16: Maintain Private System
9-4B-17: Other Requirements
Division 5. Sanitary Sewers, Building Sewers And Connections
9-4B-18: No Opening Of Public Sewer System
9-4B-19: Classes Of Permits, Application, Inspection
9-4B-20: Costs Borne By Owner
9-4B-21: Separate Sewers Required; Exception
9-4B-22: Use Of Existing Sewers In New Construction
9-4B-23: Requirements For Construction
9-4B-24: Elevation
9-4B-25: No Connection Of Surface Water Collection Systems
9-4B-26: Construction Requirements
9-4B-27: Inspection
9-4B-28: Safety; Excavation On City Property
Division 6. Use Of Public Sewers
9-4B-29: No Discharge Of Surface Waters
9-4B-30: Discharge To Storm Sewers
9-4B-31: Substances Unacceptable For Discharge
9-4B-32: Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
9-4B-33: Right To Reject Discharges
9-4B-34: Property Serviced By Building Sewer Carrying Industrial Waste
9-4B-35: Required Information
9-4B-36: Testing Methods
9-4B-37: Costs And Expenses
9-4B-38: No Vandalism To City Sewer Facilities
9-4B-39: District May Accept Industrial Waste
9-4B-40: Hearing Board
Division 7. Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
9-4B-41: Right Of Inspectors To Enter And Inspect
9-4B-42: Inspectors Observe Safety Rules
9-4B-43: Entry On Easements
Division 8. Wastewater Treatment Service Charges
9-4B-44: Distribution Of Cost Of Operation
9-4B-45: Determining Annual Cost Of Operation And Maintenance
9-4B-46: Determining Wastewater Contribution Percentage
9-4B-47: Surcharge Above Normal Strength
9-4B-48: User Charge Rates
9-4B-49: Review Of Wastewater Service Charge
9-4B-50: Notification
9-4B-51: Interest And Disconnection Of Water Service
Division 9. General Pretreatment Requirements
9-4B-52: Purpose
9-4B-53: General Discharge Prohibitions
9-4B-54: Pretreatment Requirements
9-4B-55: Dilution Prohibition
9-4B-56: Spill Prevention Plans
9-4B-57: Notification
9-4B-58: Employee Training
9-4B-59: Records
9-4B-60: Analytical Requirements
9-4B-61: Costs And Expenses Borne By User
9-4B-62: Confidential Information
9-4B-63: Right Of Entry
Division 10. Wastewater Contribution Permit Application
9-4B-64: Requirements To Apply For Permit
9-4B-65: Permit Application
Division 11. Wastewater Contribution Permit Requirements
9-4B-66: Permit Required
9-4B-67: Permit Contents
9-4B-68: Basis For Effluent Limitations
9-4B-69: Reports Required
9-4B-70: Permit Duration
9-4B-71: Permit Modifications
9-4B-72: Permit Transfer
9-4B-73: Monitoring
9-4B-74: Bypass
Division 12. Fees
9-4B-75: Charges And Fees
9-4B-76: Reserved
Division 13. Enforcement
9-4B-77: Enforcement Response Plan
9-4B-78: Permit Suspension
9-4B-79: Revocation Of Permit
9-4B-80: Complaint
9-4B-81: Issuance Of Notice Or Order
9-4B-82: Hearings
9-4B-83: Final Corrective Orders
9-4B-84: Injunctive Relief
9-4B-85: Civil Penalties
9-4B-86: Criminal Penalties
Division 14. Penalties
9-4B-87: Corrective Action Required
9-4B-88: Misdemeanor
9-4B-89: Liability For Damages
DIVISION 1. ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
9-4B-1: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
BOD   Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR   Code of federal regulations
COD   Chemical oxygen demand
EPA   Environmental protection agency
l     Liter
mg    Milligrams
mg/l  Milligrams per liter
NPDES National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW  Publicly owned treatment works
SIC   Standard industrial classification
SWDA  Solid waste disposal act, 42 USC 6901 et seq.
TSS   Total suspended solids
USC   United States Code
 
(Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms and
phrases used in this article shall have the following meanings:
ACT: The federal water pollution control act, as amended by the clean water act
and the water quality act of 1987, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER: A. In the case of a corporation,
a president, secretary, treasurer or vice president of the corporation in
charge of a principal business function;
   B.   In the case of a partnership or proprietorship, a general partner or
proprietor; and
   C.   An authorized representative of the individuals designated above, if:
      1. Such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the discharge into the POTW originates;
      2. The authorization is in writing; and
      3. The written authorization is submitted to the POTW.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure for
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in terms of weight
and concentration (milligrams per liter (mg/l)).
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (11 m) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called house connection.
BYPASS: The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
CAUSE: The separate antecedent of an event, that which produces an effect,
whatever moves, impels or leads to a result or action; whether direct or
indirect and whether alone or in concert with others.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND: A measure of oxygen consuming capacity of inorganic and
organic matter present in water or wastewater. It is expressed as the amount of
oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specific test. Results are not
necessarily related to BOD because the chemical oxidant may react to substances
that bacteria do not stabilize.
CITY: Lehi City, Utah, or the city council of Lehi City.
CITY SEWER SUPERINTENDENT: The city officer charged with the responsibility to
maintain, repair, supervise and control the city sewer system.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer to receive both wastewater and storm or surface water.
COMPOSITE SAMPLE: Samples, which are flow proportioned and shall, as a minimum,
contain at least four (4) samples collected over the compositing period. Unless
otherwise specified, the time between the collection of the first sample and
last sample shall not be less than six (6) hours nor more than twenty four (24)
hours. Acceptable methods for preparation of composite samples are as follows:
   A.   Constant time interval between samples, sample volume proportional to
flow rate at time of sampling;
   B.   Constant time interval between samples, sample volume proportional to
total flow (volume) since last sample. For the first sample, the flow rate at
the time the sample was collected may be used;
   C.   Constant sample volume, time interval between samples proportional to
flow (i.e., sample taken every "X" gallons of flow); and
   D.   Continuous collection of sample, with sample collection rate
proportional to full rate.
DIRECT DISCHARGE: A discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly to
the waters of the state of Utah.
DISTRICT: The Timpanogos special service district, a special service district.
DISTRICT SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of wastewater facilities of the
district or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a onetime basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into a POTW from any
nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the federal
water pollution control act, also known as the clean water act, as amended, 33
USC section 1251 et seq.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Any person who introduces pollutants into a POTW from any
nondomestic source regulated under the act, state law or local ordinance.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or business
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
INTERFERENCE: Any discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
   A.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW and any of its process or operations, or
its sludge use or disposal; and
   B.   Therefor is the cause of violation (including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation) of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES
permit or federal, state or local sludge standards.
MAY: Is permissive.
NPDES OR STATE DISCHARGE PERMIT: A permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the
federal water pollution control act (33 USC 1342).
NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD, PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR STANDARD: Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the act (33 USC 1317), which applies
to industrial users. This term includes prohibitive discharge limits
established pursuant to 40 CFR section 403.5, or any revision thereto.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
ground water.
NEW SOURCE: Any building, structure, facility or installation of which the
construction commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards
under section 307(c) (33 USC 1317) which will be applicable to such source if
such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section;
provided, that:
   A.   The construction is a site at which no other source is located; or
   B.   The process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source is totally replaced; or
   C.   The production or wastewater generating processes are substantially
independent of an existing source at the same site.
PASS-THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, causes a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation).
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, company, corporation, association,
joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity or any other legal
entity, or their legal representatives, agent or assigns. The masculine gender
shall include the feminine, the singular shall include the plural where
indicated by the context.
pH: The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen
ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, commercial and agricultural waste, or
any other contaminant.
PRETREATMENT: The reduction, elimination or alteration of pollutant properties
to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharge or introduction into a
POTW. This can be accomplished by physical, chemical or biological processes,
process changes, or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR section 403.6
(d).
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A treatment works, as defined by section
212 of the act, including any devices and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
The systems include sewers, pipes and equipment used to convey wastewater to
the treatment facility. The term also includes the municipality, as defined in
section 502(4) of the act, which has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges
to and the discharges from such a treatment works.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: Substantial physical damage to property, damage to the
treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial and
permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur
in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic loss
caused by delays in production.
SEWAGE: The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: Any industrial user subject to national
categorical pretreatment standards or any industrial user of the district
wastewater disposal system who:
   A.    Has a discharge flow of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons or more
per average workday; or
   B.    Has a flow greater than five percent (5%) of the flow in the district
wastewater treatment system; or
   C.    Has in its wastes toxic pollutants, as defined pursuant to section 307
of the federal water pollution control act, or state law or regulation; or
   D.    Is found by the POTW or the state to have significant impact, either
alone or in combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater
treatment systems, the quality of sludge, the POTW's effluent discharge
quality, or the air emissions generated by the system.
SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE: An industrial user is in significant noncompliance
(SNC) if its violation meets one or more of the following criteria:
   A.    Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined herein as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
during a six (6) month period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit
or the average limit for the same pollutant parameter.
   B.    Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined herein as those in
which thirty three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements for each
pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds the
product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the
applicable TRC.
   C.    Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum or
longer term average) that the control authority determines has caused, alone or
in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through (including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public).
   D.    Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare, or to the environment, or has resulted in the POTW's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge.
   E.    Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance.
   F.    Failure to provide, within thirty (30) days after the due date,
required reports, such as baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day
compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance
with compliance schedules.
   G.    Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
   H.    Any other violation or group of violations which the control authority
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24)
hour concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect
the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
STORMWATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
TOXIC POLLUTANT: Any pollutant or combination of pollutants identified as toxic
pursuant to section 307(a) of the federal water pollution control act or other
federal statutes, or in regulations promulgated by the state under state law.
TREATMENT: The process to which wastewater is subjected in order to remove or
alter any objectionable constituents and thus render it acceptable for
introduction into the waters of the state.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
USER: Any person who discharges to a public sewer.
WASTEWATER: The liquid and water carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
whether treated or untreated.
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
WATERS OF THE STATE: Includes:
   A. Both surface and underground waters within the boundaries of this state,
subject to its jurisdiction, including all ponds, lakes, rivers, streams,
public ditches, tax ditches, and public drainage systems within this state,
other than those designed and used to collect, convey or dispose of sanitary
sewage; and
   B. The floodplain of free flowing waters determined by the department of
natural resources on the basis of 100-year flood frequency. (Ord. 12-08-09.35,
12-8-2009)
DIVISION 2. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CITY AND DISTRICT
9-4B-3: OWNERSHIP OF LINES; SEWAGE TREATMENT BY DISTRICT:
In most instances, the city owns the sewer lines and collectors to which
sanitary sewers are connected and the city discharges effluent from city lines
and collectors into sewer outfall lines owned by the district. The city and the
district have entered into a contractual agreement pursuant to which the
district serves as the POTW treating all sewage collected in the city sewer
lines and collectors and discharged into the district outfall lines. (Ord. 12-
08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-4: DISTRICT TO CHARGE FOR SERVICES:
The city will pay to the district, in accordance with the terms of the
contractual agreement between the parties, the fees and charges imposed by the
district for treatment of the sewage passing from the city sewer lines and
collectors into the district outfall lines. The district shall charge directly
industrial users for inspections, sampling, permits and for industrial user
surcharges and, at the request of the district, the city will terminate water
service to any industrial user not paying the fees and charges billed by the
district in accordance with its pretreatment regulations, permit schedules,
inspection schedules and surcharge schedules. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-5: AUTHORITY TO DISTRICT SUPERINTENDENT AND REPRESENTATIVES:
The city hereby appoints and empowers the district superintendent, his agent,
deputy or representative, as inspectors having authority to enter in and
inspect all properties, buildings and facilities discharging sewage into the
city sewer system for treatment by the district at the district facility. (Ord.
12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-6: APPLICATION TO CITY AND USERS CONTRACTING WITH CITY:
This division shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city who, by
contract or agreement with the city, have connections to city sewer lines or
facilities. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
DIVISION 3. USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
9-4B-7: UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT WASTE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited
in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city, or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-8: UNLAWFUL TO DISCHARGE SEWAGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS:
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this article. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-9: UNLAWFUL TO USE PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEMS:
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for
the disposal of wastewater. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-10: CONNECTION TO CITY SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED:
The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, are required at the
owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper sewer, in accordance with the
provisions of this article, within sixty (60) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within the distance
prescribed in the city development standards and public improvement
specifications. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
DIVISION 4. PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
9-4B-11: USE OF PRIVATE SYSTEM:
Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions
of section
9-4B-10 of this article, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this division, or
other applicable city ordinances. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-12: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal system,
the owners shall first obtain a written permit from the city sewer
superintendent and shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Utah
County health department. The application for such permit shall be made on a
form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the city sewer
superintendent. A permit and inspection fee as established in the city fee
schedule shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed. (Ord.
12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
9-4B-13: INSPECTION:
A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city sewer
superintendent. The city sewer superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the city sewer superintendent when the work is ready for
final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within twenty four (24) hours of the receipt of notice
by the city sewer superintendent. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-14: PRIVATE SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS:
The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Utah County health
department. No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than that prescribed in the city development standards and public
improvement specifications. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-15: CONNECT TO CITY SEWER SYSTEM:
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private wastewater disposal system, as provided in section
9-4B-10 of this article, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
within sixty (60) days, in compliance with this article, and any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-16: MAINTAIN PRIVATE SYSTEM:
The owners shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city. Sludge
shall be removed by a licensed operator and disposed of as required by the Utah
County health department and city ordinances. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-17: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer. (Ord. 12-08-
09.35, 12-8-2009)
DIVISION 5. SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
9-4B-18: NO OPENING OF PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM:
No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer, or appurtenance thereof, without
first obtaining a written permit from the city sewer superintendent. (Ord. 12-
08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-19: CLASSES OF PERMITS, APPLICATION, INSPECTION:
   A.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
      1.   For residential and commercial service; and
      2.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. (Ord. 12-
08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
   B.   In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a form
furnished by the city and, in the case of establishments producing industrial
wastes, also shall make application for a discharge permit to the district. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city sewer
superintendent. A permit and inspection fee as established in the city fee
schedule shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed,
together with any permit and inspection fees required by the district. (Ord.
12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
9-4B-20: COSTS BORNE BY OWNER:
All cost and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owners. The owners shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-21: SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building;
except, where one building stands at the rear of another or an interior lot and
no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-22: USE OF EXISTING SEWERS IN NEW CONSTRUCTION:
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found, on examination and test by the city sewer superintendent, to meet
all requirements of this article. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-23: REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION:
The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of all sanitary
sewers, including building sewers, and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, joining, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of suitable code
provisions, or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF manual of practice no. 9
shall apply. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-24: ELEVATION:
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-25: NO CONNECTION OF SURFACE WATER COLLECTION SYSTEMS:
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway
drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer
or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer, unless such connection is approved by the city sewer
superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage. (Ord. 12-
08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-26: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF manual of practice no. 9. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper
testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the city sewer superintendent before installation. (Ord. 12-08-
09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-27: INSPECTION:
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city sewer
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the city sewer superintendent or his representative. (Ord. 12-
08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-28: SAFETY; EXCAVATION ON CITY PROPERTY:
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. (Ord. 12-08-09.35,
12-8-2009)
DIVISION 6. USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
9-4B-29: NO DISCHARGE OF SURFACE WATERS:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters, such
as stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or
cooling water to any sewer, except stormwater runoff from limited areas, which
stormwater may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by
permission of the city sewer superintendent. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-30: DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS:
Stormwater, other than that exempted under section
9-4B-29 of this article, and all other unpolluted drainage, shall be discharged
to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the city sewer superintendent and other regulatory agencies.
Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on
approval of the city sewer superintendent, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-31: SUBSTANCES UNACCEPTABLE FOR DISCHARGE:
Section
9-4B-53 of this article shall control substances and wastes which may be
discharged into the city sewer system and no person shall discharge into the
city sewer system any prohibited substances or wastes. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-
2009)
9-4B-32: GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
city sewer superintendent or district superintendent, they are necessary for
the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive
amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
district superintendent and the city sewer superintendent, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection in locations
approved in advance by the district superintendent. In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captivated material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
city sewer superintendent or the district superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner's personnel must be
performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-
2009)
9-4B-33: RIGHT TO REJECT DISCHARGES:
   A.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the city sewer system, which water contains the substances or
possesses the characteristics enumerated in section
9-4B-53 of this article and which in the judgment of either the city sewer
superintendent or the district superintendent may have a deleterious effect
upon the wastewater facilities, processes equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitutes a public nuisance,
either the district superintendent or the city sewer superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing sewer charges.
   B.   In no event can the city sewer superintendent authorize acceptance of
water or wastes which the district superintendent rejects. (Ord. 12-08-09.35,
12-8-2009)
9-4B-34: PROPERTY SERVICED BY BUILDING SEWER CARRYING INDUSTRIAL WASTE:
When required by the district sewer superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a suitable
structure, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
superintendent. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-35: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
The city sewer superintendent or the district superintendent may require a user
of sewer services to provide information needed to determine compliance with
this article. These requirements may include:
   A.   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
   B.   Chemical analysis of wastewaters.
   C.   Information on raw materials, processes and products effecting
wastewater volume and quality.
   D.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or
other materials important to sewer use control.
   E.   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location.
   F.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
   G.   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-36: TESTING METHODS:
All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of water and wastes
to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance
with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And
Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association. Sampling
methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to be determined on an
individual basis, subject to approval by the district superintendent. (Ord. 12-
08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-37: COSTS AND EXPENSES:
Any costs incident to any inspection and sampling provided in this article
shall be borne by the user. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-38: NO VANDALISM TO CITY SEWER FACILITIES:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the city or district wastewater facilities. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-
8-2009)
9-4B-39: DISTRICT MAY ACCEPT INDUSTRIAL WASTE:
No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the district and any industrial user
whereby industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the district for treatment in accordance with the industrial pretreatment
provisions of divisions 9 through 13 of this article. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-
2009)
9-4B-40: HEARING BOARD:
   A.   A hearing board shall be appointed by the city council as needed for
arbitration of differences between the city sewer superintendent and sewer
users on matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of
this article by the city sewer superintendent.
   B.   The hearing board shall consist of five (5) members, which shall
include a registered professional engineer, a practicing sanitary engineer, a
representative of industry or manufacturing enterprise, a lawyer and a member
selected at large for his or her interest in accomplishing the objectives of
this article.
   C.   The cost of arbitration will be divided equally between the city and
the user or applicant. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
DIVISION 7. POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
9-4B-41: RIGHT OF INSPECTORS TO ENTER AND INSPECT:
The city sewer superintendent, the district superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the city and district bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, testing and obtaining
information pertinent to discharge to the city sewer system in accordance with
the provisions of this article. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-42: INSPECTORS OBSERVE SAFETY RULES:
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in
section
9-4B-41 of this article, the city sewer superintendent, the district
superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city or district shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company,
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to city or district
employees, and the city or district shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by city or district employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damages asserted against the
company growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may
be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions
as required by section
9-4B-34 of this article. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-43: ENTRY ON EASEMENTS:
The city sewer superintendent, the district superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the city or district bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which
the city or district holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but
not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and
maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities lying within said
easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
DIVISION 8. WASTEWATER TREATMENT SERVICE CHARGES
9-4B-44: DISTRIBUTION OF COST OF OPERATION:
The costs of operation and maintenance of the city sewer system shall be
distributed to all users of the wastewater system in proportion to each user's
contribution to the total loading of the treatment works. Factors such as
strength (BOD and TSS), volume and delivery flow rate characteristics shall be
considered and included as the basis for the user's contribution to ensure a
proportional distribution of operation and maintenance costs to each user or
user class. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-45: DETERMINING ANNUAL COST OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
The city shall determine the total annual costs of operation and maintenance of
the wastewater system which are necessary to maintain the capacity and
performance, during the service life of the collection system, for which such
system was designated and constructed. The total annual cost of operation and
maintenance shall include, but need not be limited to, labor, repairs,
equipment replacement, maintenance, necessary modifications, power, sampling,
laboratory tests, and a reasonable contingency fund. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-
2009)
9-4B-46: DETERMINING WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERCENTAGE:
The city shall determine the average monthly sewer use for each connection
based on metered culinary water use. The city or the district shall determine
each sewage strength of BOD and TSS for those users who discharge sewage of
greater strength than residential strength. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-47: SURCHARGE ABOVE NORMAL STRENGTH:
The city or the district will determine the TSS, BOD, COD and oil and grease
daily loadings for the average residential user or, in lieu of such
determination, will consider the average residential strength waste to be two
hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) BOD and two hundred fifty
milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) TSS. The district will assess a surcharge rate
for all nonresidential users discharging waste with BOD, TSS, COD or oil and
grease strengths greater than the average residential user. The surcharge will
be sufficient to cover the cost of treating such above normal strength waste.
The billing for such surcharge will be issued directly by the district to such
nonresidential users. The amount of such surcharges will be as set forth in the
rate schedule in appendix A attached to the ordinance codified herein and on
file in the city office, as such rate schedule may be amended from time to time
by resolution. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-48: USER CHARGE RATES:
   A.   The city has adopted by resolution a rate schedule which may be amended
from time to time by resolution. Any amendments to such rate schedule shall be
effective immediately upon the adoption of an amending resolution.
   B.   The city may, under abnormal circumstances, make adjustments as needed
to ensure equitable service charges. The city may make such adjustments where
excessive quantities of culinary water are metered which are consumed on the
premises and which do not enter the sewage system. The consumer will have the
burden of proving evidence of such inequities by showing that the quantity
metered exceeds by at least twenty percent (20%) the total flow in order to
merit consideration by the city. Reductions shall be based on the cost per one
thousand (1,000) gallons as adopted by resolution of the city council.
   C.   In lieu of using the culinary metered water to determine the sewer use,
a user may install a sewer meter, subject to the following:
      1.   The user will furnish and install the meter per the city standards
and specifications at the user's expense;
      2.   The charge for sewer operation and maintenance service will be based
upon the sewer meter rather than upon the water meter readings.
   D.   For accounts which do not have sufficient data to establish the monthly
discharge to the sewer (new connections, etc.), the monthly sewer charge for
single residential users and multiple unit users will consist of the billing
charge as described in subsection B of this section, plus double the debt
service charge described in subsection C of this section. The sewer charge for
churches, schools and institutional users will be estimated, based on like
existing facilities in the community.
   E.   Stopped meters may either be billed as set out in subsection D of this
section or based on the previous year readings during the same period. (Ord.
12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-49: REVIEW OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
The city shall review the total annual cost of operation and maintenance,
including the city payments to the district, and will revise the service
charges as necessary to assure equity of the service charge system established
herein and to assure that sufficient funds are obtained to adequately operate
and maintain the wastewater treatment works. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-50: NOTIFICATION:
The user's wastewater service charge may be included in a periodic (at least
annually) wastewater utility bill or with the monthly water utility bill. The
city shall notify the user, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and
that portion of the user charges which are attributable to wastewater treatment
services. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-51: INTEREST AND DISCONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE:
Interest and disconnection of water service shall be as provided in title 2,
chapter 1 of this code. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
DIVISION 9. GENERAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS
9-4B-52: PURPOSE:
The purposes of divisions 9 through 12 of this article are:
   A.   To establish uniform requirements for direct and indirect contributors
into the wastewater collection and treatment systems owned and operated by the
municipality and the district and to enable the district to comply with
applicable state and federal laws and the general pretreatment regulations (40
CFR part 403).
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality's
wastewater system which will:
      1.   Interfere with the operation of the municipality and district
systems;
      2.   Cause the district treatment plant to violate its NPDES discharge
permit;
      3.   Contaminate the sludge;
      4.   Pass through the systems, inadequately treated, into receiving
waters or the atmosphere;
      5.   Pose a health threat to sewer workers; or
      6.   Be otherwise incompatible with the systems.
   C.   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the systems; and
   D.   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the wastewater
system. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-53: GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly to a POTW operated by the district, any pollutant or wastewater
which will pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance
of the POTW.
   B.   No user shall contribute the following substances to any POTW:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or sixty degrees
centigrade (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
      2.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, such as, but not limited to:
grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any
dimension, or any material which can be disposed of as trash.
      3.   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0 or greater than 9.5, unless
the works is specifically designed to accommodate such discharges.
      4.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through.
      5.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases vapor or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
      6.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the district.
      7.   Any wastewater containing a toxic pollutant which may cause
interference with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, contaminate the sludge or pass through the POTW and pollute
the waters of the state.
      8.   Any substance which may create a public nuisance, cause hazard to
life or prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair.
      9.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds forty degrees centigrade (40oC)
(104oF).
      10.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will cause interference with the POTW, including slug loads. (Ord. 12-08-09.35,
12-8-2009)
      11.   Any wastewater having effluent characteristics in excess of the
maximums set forth in appendix B attached to the ordinance codified herein and
on file in the city office, which schedule may be amended from time to time by
resolution. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
      12.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
district superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal
regulations.
      13.   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions.
      14.   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing substances which
exceed limits established by the district superintendent. (Ord. 12-08-09.35,
12-8-2009)
9-4B-54: PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as
required to comply with this article, federal pretreatment standards and permit
conditions, and shall achieve compliance with all national categorical
pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by the federal
pretreatment regulations.
   B.   Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater shall be provided,
operated and maintained at the industrial user's expense. Detailed plans
showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted
to the district for review and shall be approved by the district before
construction of the facility. The review and approval of plans and operating
procedures does not relieve the industrial user from complying with the
provisions of this article and permit conditions. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and
approved by the district prior to the industrial user's initiation of the
changes. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-55: DILUTION PROHIBITION:
No industrial user shall increase the use of process water or dilute a
discharge as a substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with
this article. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-56: SPILL PREVENTION PLANS:
   A.   Industrial users shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
materials which may interfere with the POTW by developing spill prevention
plans. Facilities necessary to implement these plans shall be provided and
maintained at the owner's or industrial user's expense. Spill prevention plans,
including the facilities and the operating procedures, shall be approved by the
district before construction of the facility.
   B.   Industrial users that store hazardous substances shall not contribute
to the POTW after the effective date hereof, unless a spill prevention plan has
been approved by the district. Approval of such plans shall not relieve the
industrial user from complying with all other laws and regulations governing
the use, storage and transportation of hazardous substances. (Ord. 12-08-09.35,
12-8-2009)
9-4B-57: NOTIFICATION:
   A.   In the case of any discharge in violation of this article or permit
conditions, the industrial user shall immediately notify the district of the
discharge by telephone. The notification shall include:
      1.   The date, time, location and duration of the discharge;
      2.   The type of waste, including concentration and volume; and
      3.   Any corrective actions taken by the user.
   B.   Within five (5) days following such a discharge, the user shall submit
a written report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures that
will be taken by the user to prevent similar future discharges.
   C.   Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage or other liability resulting from the discharge, nor shall such
notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other liability
which may be imposed under this article or other applicable state or federal
law. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-58: EMPLOYEE TRAINING:
The industrial user shall permanently post a notice in a prominent place
advising all employees to call the district, attention pretreatment
coordinator, plant manager or shift foreman in the event of a dangerous
discharge for which notification is required. Employers shall advise all
employees who may cause or be injured by such a discharge of the emergency
notification procedure. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-59: RECORDS:
   A.   Users shall retain and make available upon request of authorized
representatives of the district, the state or the EPA, all records required to
be collected by the user pursuant to this article, or any permit or order
issued pursuant to this article.
   B.   These records shall remain available for a period of at least five (5)
years after their collection.
   C.   This period shall be extended during any litigation concerning
compliance with this article or permit conditions. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-
2009)
9-4B-60: ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS:
All analyses, including sampling techniques, submitted in support of any
application reports, evidence or required by any permit or order shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR part 136, and
amendments thereto, or, if 40 CFR part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, in accordance with
procedures approved by the EPA. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-61: COSTS AND EXPENSES BORNE BY USER:
Any costs incident to any inspection, sampling or analysis required in
divisions 9 through 13 of this article shall be borne by the user. (Ord. 12-08-
09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-62: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
   A.   Information and data (other than effluent data) about a user obtained
from reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring
programs and from inspections shall be available to the public, unless the user
specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
district that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user. Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data. Effluent data shall be available to the public without
restriction.
   B.   When the person furnishing a report satisfies the district that such
person has made the demonstration required by subsection A of this section, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection, except upon written request by the
state or EPA for uses related to this article. Confidential portions of a
report shall be available for use by the state or EPA in judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Effluent
data will not be recognized as confidential information. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-
8-2009)
9-4B-63: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Representatives of the district, the state and the EPA, upon showing proper
identification, shall have the right to enter and inspect the premises of any
user who may be subject to the requirements of this article. Industrial users
required to obtain wastewater contribution permits shall allow authorized
representatives of the district, state and EPA access to all premises for the
purpose of inspecting, sampling, examining records or copying records in the
performance of their duties. Authorized representatives of the district, state
and EPA shall have the right to place on the user's property such devices as
are necessary to conduct sampling and monitoring. Where a user has security
clearance, training or wearing of special protective gear, the user shall make
necessary arrangements at its own expense to enable authorized representatives
of the district, state and EPA to enter and inspect the premises as guaranteed
by this section. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
DIVISION 10. WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT APPLICATION
9-4B-64: REQUIREMENTS TO APPLY FOR PERMIT:
   A.   The following industrial users are required to apply for a wastewater
contribution permit:
      1.   Any significant industrial user;
      2.   Any user required by state pretreatment requirements to obtain a
permit;
      3.   Any user providing pretreatment; and
      4.   Any other user directed by the POTW to apply for a permit.
   B.   Existing users required to obtain a permit by subsection A of this
section must apply for a wastewater contribution permit within ninety (90) days
of the effective date hereof.
   C.   New sources required to obtain a permit by subsection A of this section
must apply for and receive a wastewater contribution permit prior to
discharging pollutants into the POTW.
   D.   Any user not required to obtain a permit for existing discharges must
apply for and receive a wastewater contribution permit prior to changing the
user's discharge in such a manner that the resulting discharge would require a
permit. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-65: PERMIT APPLICATION:
Users required to apply for a wastewater contribution permit shall complete and
file with the district an application in the form prescribed by the district
and accompanied by a fee as established in the city fee schedule. In support of
the application, the user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluations, the following information: (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009; amd. 2015
Code)
   A.   Name, address and location (if different from the address).
   B.   SIC number according to the "Standard Industrial Classification
Manual", issued by the executive office of the president, office of management
and budget, 1972.
   C.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including, but not limited
to, those mentioned in section
9-4B-53 of this article.
   D.   Time and duration of contribution.
   E.   Average daily, maximum daily and thirty (30) minute peak wastewater
flow rates in gallons per day, including daily, monthly and seasonal variations
if any.
   F.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, along with
details to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size,
location and elevation.
   G.   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged.
   H.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration of any pollutants in the discharge which are limited by any
national categorical pretreatment standards or which are described in section
9-4B-53 of this article. Both daily maximum and average concentration shall be
reported. The sample shall be representative of daily operations. Samples
should be taken immediately downstream of pretreatment facilities if such exist
or immediately downstream from the regulated process if no pretreatment exists.
If other wastewaters are mixed with wastewater regulated by a national
categorical pretreatment standard prior to pretreatment, the user should
measure the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined
waste stream formula in 40 CFR section 403.6(c) in order to evaluate compliance
with pretreatment standards.
   I.   The shortest schedule by which the user will provide additional
pretreatment or operation and maintenance, if required to meet pretreatment
standards. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. In no
case shall the increments of progress in the schedule exceed nine (9) months.
   J.   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and rate of
production.
   K.   A listing of any toxic pollutant which the applicant uses or
manufactures as an intermediate or final product or byproduct.
   L.   Type and amount of raw materials processes (average and maximum per
day).
   M.   Number and type of employees, as well as hours of operation of plant
and proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system.
   N.   Signature of an authorized representative of the user and certified to
by a qualified professional indicating whether pretreatment standards are being
met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance and additional pretreatment is required.
   O.   Any other information deemed by the district to be necessary to
evaluate the permit application. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
DIVISION 11. WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
9-4B-66: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Within one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date hereof, it shall be
unlawful for a user subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard or
other significant industrial user or any other user directed to apply for a
permit by the district to discharge wastewater into the POTW except in
accordance with the terms and conditions of a wastewater contribution permit.
(Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-67: PERMIT CONTENTS:
Permits may contain the following:
   A.   Requirements to pay fees for the wastewater to be discharged to the
POTW.
   B.   Effluent limitations on the average and maximum wastewater constituents
and characteristics.
   C.   Limitations on the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
   D.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities.
   E.   Requirements and specifications for monitoring programs, including
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule.
   F.   Compliance schedules, which may not extend compliance date beyond
applicable federal deadlines.
   G.   Requirements for submission of technical reports, discharge reports or
certification statements. These include any reporting requirements contained in
a national categorical standard or pretreatment requirement.
   H.   Requirements for collecting/retaining and providing access to plant
records relating to the user's discharge.
   I.   Requirements for notification of any new introduction of wastewater
constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of the
wastewater treatment system.
   J.   Requirements for notification of spills, slug loadings or violations.
   K.   Requirements for installation, operation and maintenance of pollution
control equipment.
   L.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the district to ensure
compliance with this article, state and federal pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   M.   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation of
permit conditions and requirements. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-68: BASIS FOR EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS:
Effluent limitations shall be based upon the more stringent of the following:
   A.   National categorical pretreatment standards;
   B.   State pretreatment requirements; or
   C.   Local limitations calculated by mass balance or other valid scientific
method necessary to protect the POTW from materials described in section
9-4B-53 of this article. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-69: REPORTS REQUIRED:
Any user subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard, shall submit
to the district a baseline monitoring report, a ninety (90) day report and
semiannual reports that meet federal pretreatment requirements at 40 CFR
403.12, or any revision thereto, indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge. Any significant industrial user or other user
required to have a permit shall submit to the district semiannual reports
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge. The
specific standards or the POTW itself may require this report to be filed more
frequently. In addition, this report shall include a report of all daily flows,
which during the reporting period, exceeded the average daily flow in the
permit. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-70: PERMIT DURATION:
Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five (5)
years. The user shall apply for permit reissuance at least one hundred eighty
(180) days prior to the expiration of the user's existing permit. (Ord. 12-08-
09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-71: PERMIT MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Within nine (9) months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard or pretreatment requirement or such shorter time as
specified within the standard or requirement, the wastewater contribution
permit of users subject to such standards shall be revised to require
compliance with such standard within the time prescribed by such standard. The
user shall reapply for a wastewater contribution permit within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the promulgation of the pretreatment standard.
   B.   A user must reapply for a permit:
      1.   Whenever the mass loading of pollutants contained in the permitted
discharge exceeds the average daily quantity applied for by greater than ten
percent (10%); and/or
      2.   Prior to any new introduction of pollutants or any substantial
change in the volume or character of pollutants introduced into the POTW.
   C.   A user may reapply for a wastewater contribution permit whenever the
user believes that some of the permit requirements no longer apply. (Ord. 12-
08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-72: PERMIT TRANSFER:
Wastewater contribution permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
process or operation. A wastewater contribution permit shall not be reassigned
or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation without the approval of the district. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-
8-2009)
9-4B-73: MONITORING:
   A.   Users shall provide and maintain in safe and proper condition, at their
own expense and in accordance with all applicable construction requirements,
standards and specifications, facilities and equipment to allow the authorized
representatives of the city, district, EPA or the state to inspect, sample or
measure flows from wastewater subject to this article. This may include the
installation, at the user's expense, of sampling manholes.
   B.   There shall be ample room in or near such facilities to allow accurate
sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
   C.   If locating such facilities on a user's property would be impractical,
the user may apply to the city for a right of way or for permission to
construct on public property. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-74: BYPASS:
   A.   Bypass Not Violating Applicable Pretreatment Standards Or Requirements:
An industrial user may allow any bypass to occur which does not violate
pretreatment standards or requirements, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
subsections B and C of this section.
   B.   Notice:
      1.   If an industrial user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the POTW, if possible, at least ten (10) days
before the date of the bypass.
      2.   An industrial user shall orally notify the district of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the bypass. A
written submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of becoming
aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain:
         a.   A description of the bypass and its cause;
         b.   The duration of the bypass, including exact times and dates, and,
if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and
         c.   Steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass.
   C.   Prohibition Of Bypass:
      1.   Bypass is prohibited and the district may take enforcement action
against an industrial user for a bypass, unless:
         a.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         b.   There were no feasible alternatives to bypass, such as use of
auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of wastes or maintenance during
normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if
adequate backup equipment should have been installed to prevent bypass which
occurred during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance;
and
         c.   The industrial user submitted notices as required by subsection B
of this section.
      2.   The POTW may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the district determines that it will meet the three (3)
conditions listed in subsection C1 of this section. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-
2009)
DIVISION 12. FEES
9-4B-75: CHARGES AND FEES:
   A.   The district may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      1.   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
district pretreatment program.
      2.   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures,
including the cost of reviewing monitoring reports submitted by the industrial
users.
      3.   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction.
      4.   Fees for permit applications, including the cost of processing such
applications.
      5.   Fees for any hearings or for filing appeals.
      6.   Fees for consistent removal by the district of pollutants otherwise
subject to federal pretreatment standards.
      7.   Other fees as the district may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this article and are separate from all other fees chargeable by the
district.
   B.   There shall be a schedule, known as appendix C attached to the
ordinance codified herein, setting forth a complete description of the charges
assessed by the district as provided herein, which schedule may be amended from
time to time by resolution. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-76: RESERVED:
DIVISION 13. ENFORCEMENT
9-4B-77: ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN:
The district may establish an enforcement response plan to provide a system for
enforcement of this article. That plan may include all of the remedies set
forth in this article. The text of the plan shall be appendix D attached to the
ordinance codified herein and on file in the city office, which plan may be
amended from time to time by resolution. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009; amd.
2015 Code)
9-4B-78: PERMIT SUSPENSION:
   A.   The POTW may suspend the wastewater treatment service or a wastewater
contribution permit or cut off the sewer connection when such suspension or
cutoff is necessary, in the opinion of the district, in order to stop an actual
or threatened discharge which:
      1.   Presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to
the health or welfare of persons;
      2.   Presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to
the environment;
      3.   May cause or actually causes interference to the POTW; or
      4.   Causes the district to violate any condition of its NPDES or state
discharge permit.
   B.   The district may reinstate the wastewater contribution permit or the
wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying
discharge.
   C.   In the event of a suspension or cutoff under this section, within
fifteen (15) days the user shall submit a written report describing the event
that caused the suspension and the measures taken to prevent any recurrence.
(Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-79: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The district may revoke any wastewater contribution permit if the district
finds:
   A.   A user has falsified information or records submitted or retained in
accordance with this article or in connection with any permit issued pursuant
to this article.
   B.   A user has violated the conditions of a wastewater contribution permit.
   C.   A user has refused right of entry guaranteed by section
9-4B-63 of this article.
   D.   A user has failed to reapply for a permit or request a required permit
modification.
   E.   A user has discharged into the district in violation of this article.
   F.   Changed circumstances require a temporary or permanent reduction or
elimination of the permitted discharge.
   G.   A user has failed to retain or submit required information or records
in accordance with this article or in connection with any permit issued
pursuant to this article. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-80: COMPLAINT:
   A.   Issuance: The district may issue a written complaint if there are
reasonable grounds to believe that the person whom the complaint is directed
has violated:
      1.   This article;
      2.   Any rule or regulation adopted under this article; or
      3.   Any order or permit issued under this article.
   B.   Contents: A complaint issued under this section shall:
      1.   Specify the provision that allegedly has been violated; and
      2.   State the alleged facts that constitute the violation. (Ord. 12-08-
09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-81: ISSUANCE OF NOTICE OR ORDER:
   A.   In General: After or concurrently with service of a complaint under
this article, the district may:
      1.   Issue an order that requires the person to whom the order is
directed to take corrective action within a time set in the order;
      2.   Send a written notice that requires the person to whom the notice is
directed to file a written report about the alleged violation; or
      3.   Send a written notice that requires the person to whom the notice is
directed:
         a.   To appeal at a hearing at a time and place scheduled in order to
answer the charges in the complaint; or
         b.   To file a written report and also appear at a hearing at a time
and place set to answer the charges in the complaint.
   B.   Effective Date Of Order: Any order issued under this article is
effective immediately, according to its terms, when it is served. (Ord. 12-08-
09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-82: HEARINGS:
   A.   Hearing On Order: Within ten (10) days after being served with an
order, the person served may request a hearing by writing to the district,
attention plant manager.
   B.   Subpoenas; Witnesses:
      1.   In connection with any hearing under this section, the district may:
         a.   Subpoena any person or evidence; and
         b.   Order a witness to give evidence.
      2.   A subpoenaed witness shall receive the same fees and mileage
reimbursement as if the hearing were part of a civil action. (Ord. 12-08-09.35,
12-8-2009)
9-4B-83: FINAL CORRECTIVE ORDERS:
   A.   Orders:
      1.   Unless the person served with an order makes a timely request for a
hearing, the order is a final order.
      2.   If the person with an order under this article makes a timely
request for a hearing, the order becomes a final corrective order when the
district renders its decision following the hearing.
   B.   Other Action Permitted: This section does not prevent the district or
the attorney general from taking action against a violator before the
expiration of the time limitations or schedules in the order. (Ord. 12-08-
09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-84: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
   A.   In General: The district may bring an action for an injunction against
any person who violates any provision of this article or any rules, regulation,
order or permit adopted or issued under this article.
   B.   Findings: In any action for an injunction under this section any
finding of the district after hearing is prima facie evidence of each fact the
district determines.
   C.   Grounds: On a showing that any person is violating or is about to
violate this article or any rule, regulation, order or permit adopted or issued
by the district, the court shall grant an injunction without requiring a
showing of a lack of an adequate remedy at law.
   D.   Emergency: If an emergency arises due to imminent danger to the public
health or welfare, or imminent danger to the environment, the district may sue
for an immediate injunction to stop any pollution or other activity that is
causing the danger. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-85: CIVIL PENALTIES:
In addition to being subject to an injunctive action under this article, a
person who violates any provision of this article or of any rule, regulation,
order or permit adopted or issued under this article, is liable for a civil
penalty not exceeding twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per violation
per day, to be collected in a civil action. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-86: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
   A.   Violating Ordinances, Rules, Regulations, Orders Or Permits:
      1.   A person who violates any provision of or fails to perform any duty
imposed by divisions 9 through 13 of this article, or who violates any
provision of or fails to perform any duty imposed by a rule, regulation, order
or permit adopted or issued under such divisions of this article, is guilty of
a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code per violation per day.
      2.   In addition to any criminal penalties imposed on a person convicted
under this section, the person may be enjoined from continuing the violations.
      3.   Each day on which a violation occurs is a separate violation under
this subsection.
   B.   False Statements In Required Documents: A person is guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code per violation per day if the person:
      1.   Knowingly makes any false statement, representation or certification
in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed or required to
be maintained under this article, or any rule, regulation, order or permit
adopted or issued under this article; or
      2.   Falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required to be maintained under this article, or
any rule, regulation, order or permit adopted or issued under this article.
(Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
DIVISION 14. PENALTIES
9-4B-87: CORRECTIVE ACTION REQUIRED:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this article, except
divisions 9 through 13 of this article, shall be served by the city with a
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009)
9-4B-88: MISDEMEANOR:
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for
in section
9-4B-87 of this article shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-8-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
9-4B-89: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of
such violation, including court costs and attorney fees. (Ord. 12-08-09.35, 12-
8-2009)
CHAPTER 5
POWER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Controlling Authorities
9-5-2: Application For Electrical Service
9-5-3: Meter Readings
9-5-4: Rates
9-5-5: Destruction Of Property Unlawful
9-5-6: Electrical Specifications
9-5-1: CONTROLLING AUTHORITIES:
The electric light system of the city shall be under the exclusive control of
the city. Any electric facilities constructed to supply the city and its
inhabitants with electrical power, and all lines and apparatus for the
distribution of the same, shall be known and designated as "Lehi power", and
shall be the property of the city, and shall be under the sole and exclusive
control of the mayor and city council, who may from time to time direct the
construction of extensions and such changes as the necessities of the city and
its inhabitants may require. (1984 Code § 13.32.010; amd. 2015 Code)
9-5-2: APPLICATION FOR ELECTRICAL SERVICE:
All persons desiring to obtain power from the city, shall make written
application for the same to the city treasurer's office, pay a noninterest
bearing deposit connection fee as established by resolution of the city
council, and sign an agreement that will be governed by this chapter, and all
rules and regulations that may hereafter be prescribed by the city council.
(1984 Code § 13.32.050; amd. 2015 Code)
9-5-3: METER READINGS:
Lehi power employees shall have the right to enter upon any premises or into
any house, at all reasonable hours, for the purpose of reading the meter
thereon or therein, or inspecting the same, and for inspecting any and all
wiring, fixtures, electrical apparatus and appliances connected with the system
and the service. (1984 Code § 13.32.060; amd. 2015 Code)
9-5-4: RATES:
The rates for service from the system shall be in such sums as the city council
may determine by resolution as adopted annually by the city council in the city
fee schedule. (1984 Code § 13.32.070; amd. 2015 Code)
9-5-5: DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY UNLAWFUL:
Every person who shall wilfully or maliciously cut, break, harm or throw down
any of the poles used in the city power system, or who shall wilfully or
maliciously cut, break, harm or remove from its insulator any wire, or use the
system, or shall by the attachment of a ground wire or any other contrivance
wilfully destroy the insulation of the system or any part thereof, or intercept
the transmission of the electric current through the same; or shall in any
other manner wilfully injure, molest or destroy any property or materials
appertaining to the system; or shall wilfully interfere with the use of the
system or obstruct or postpone the transmission of the electric current through
the wires of the system, or procure or advise any such injury, interference or
obstruction to any line or wires of the system; the person so offending shall
be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 13.32.120; amd. 2015 Code)
9-5-6: ELECTRICAL SPECIFICATIONS:
The publication known as the "Lehi City Electrical Specifications, Standards",
one copy of which is filed in the office of the city recorder, is adopted by
reference, in its entirety, as presently constituted, and shall be known as
this section. (1984 Code § 13.32.130; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 6
EXTENSION AND INSTALLATION OF UTILITY LINES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Petitions For Main Line Extensions
9-6-2: Costs And Construction Of Improvements
9-6-3: Oversizing
9-6-4: Ownership
9-6-5: City Option To Extend Power Lines
9-6-1: PETITIONS FOR MAIN LINE EXTENSIONS:
Any subdivider, person or group of persons desiring water, power or sewer
service for which an extension of the main line is required may make petition
to the city, attaching thereto a map indicating the property to be served, and
the streets, alleys or highways in which the extension line is required to be
laid. The petitioner shall provide detailed design drawings for city review as
required by the city standards. (1984 Code § 13.36.010; amd. 2015 Code)
9-6-2: COSTS AND CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The petitioners for a main line extension shall pay all costs for designing,
purchasing, installing or otherwise providing the main line extensions in
compliance with the reflected city standards. (1984 Code § 13.36.020; amd. 2015
Code)
9-6-3: OVERSIZING:
The city will participate in the oversizing of main line extensions when the
city deems that a larger line size is necessary for the area in which the line
is to be extended. The oversized line size will be designated by the city, and
in all cases, the maximum financial participation by the city shall be only to
the extent of the difference in costs between the improvements needed to serve
the development and/or areas in compliance with minimum city standards and the
oversizing required by the city. (1984 Code § 13.36.030)
9-6-4: OWNERSHIP:
After the main line extension has been constructed and a final approval from
the city building inspection department and city water department or city power
department received, all encumbrances paid, easements, rights of way, etc.,
transferred and assigned to the city, the title and interest in the main line
extension will then be transferred to the city. (1984 Code § 13.36.050; amd.
2015 Code)
9-6-5: CITY OPTION TO EXTEND POWER LINES:
   A.   Major extensions of main lines and service required to accommodate
developing areas will be constructed by the city or by a subcontractor hired by
the city. The cost of installation will be paid by the owner or developer
according to the provisions of subsection B of this section. All work done by
electrical contractors must be inspected and approved by the city power
department prior to acceptance.
   B.   Where it is necessary for the city power department to provide
materials and labor incident to making connections and/or extensions, the owner
or developer will be required to pay the cost of such material, labor and
overhead incurred by the city prior to connection being made. The construction
costs shall be determined by the power department personnel and the associated
connection and impact fee shall be adopted annually by the city council in the
city fee schedule. (1984 Code § 13.36.070; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 7
NET METERING PROGRAM
SECTION:
9-7-1: Availability
9-7-2: Definitions
9-7-3: Special Conditions
9-7-4: Inspections
9-7-5: Disconnect
9-7-6: Liability For Damage
9-7-1: AVAILABILITY:
The net metering program is available to any customer located within the city's
current electrical service territory who:
   A.   Purchases electricity from the city under the provisions of the
residential electric rate service schedule; and
   B.   Owns and operates a solar, wind or other qualified renewable generator
located on the customer's premises that:
      1.   Is primarily intended to offset part or all of the customer's own
electrical requirements on the premises;
      2.   Has a capacity of no more than ten kilowatts (10 kW);
      3.   Is interconnected with the city's electric system; and
      4.   Operates in parallel with the city's distribution system.
   C.   Nonresidential systems may exceed ten kilowatts (10 kW) upon
negotiation with and approval by the power director. (Ord. 36-2015, 7-28-2015)
9-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   NET ENERGY: The difference between the electricity supplied by the city to
the customer through the city's electric distribution system and the
electricity generated on the customer's premises which is fed back into the
city's electric distribution system.
   NET METERING: A method of measuring the difference between the electricity
supplied by the city to the customer through the city's electric distribution
system and the electricity generated on the customer's premises, which is fed
back into the city's electric distribution system. (Ord. 36-2015, 7-28-2015)
9-7-3: SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   The customer shall pay for the net energy used in accordance with the
following formula:
      1.   The customer shall pay for all electric energy supplied by the city
to the customer in any billing period in excess of the amount of electric
energy produced by the customer on the premises which is fed back into the
city's electric distribution system during that same billing period.
      2.   The customer shall receive a credit for all electric energy produced
by the customer on the premises which is fed back into the city's electric
distribution system during a billing period in excess of the amount of electric
energy supplied by the city during that billing period, with such credit
applied to the customer's future electric bills, except that any electric
energy credit balance remaining in favor of the customer at the time of their
March billing each year shall be zeroed out with no further liability to the
city and no credit to the customer for said balance.
      3.   In the event the customer terminates service under this electric
service schedule, any electric energy credit balance in favor of the customer
under the provisions of subsection A2 of this section shall be forfeited. The
city will not make cash payments to customers based on their participation in
the net metering program for energy produced by the customer which is fed into
the city's electric distribution system.
   B.   The price for electric energy provided to, or credited to, a customer
participating in the net metering program shall be the price charged by the
city under the provisions of the electric service schedule for which the
customer receives service, absent this electric net metering program.
   C.   The net metering program billing adjustment only applies to charges for
energy. Participating customers are subject to all other charges, rates, terms
and conditions of the electric service schedule under which the customer
receives service, except as expressly altered by this electric service net
metering program.
   D.   The city power will be the owner of the renewable attributes of the
electricity that is generated, to include any and all credits, RECs, S-RECs,
certificates, benefits, environmental attributes, emissions reductions, offsets
and allowances, however entitled, attributable to the generation of electricity
from the customer owned renewable generation and its displacement of
conventional energy generation.
   E.   The customer shall provide, at the customer's own expense, all
equipment necessary to meet applicable safety, power quality, and
interconnection requirements established by the national electrical code (NEC),
the Institute Of Electrical And Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Underwriters
Laboratories (UL), and any applicable local and state agencies, including any
equipment deemed necessary by the city's power department expressly to
accommodate the customer's request to qualify for this electric service net
metering program. The customer must first obtain written approval from the
city's power department before the customer's on site generating system is
energized or interconnected with the city's electric system. (Ord. 36-2015, 7-
28-2015)
   F.   In order to participate in the city's net metering program and to
receive the benefits of this electric service new metering program, the
customer must first sign a net metering license agreement with the city. The
license agreement shall be signed by the mayor, city administrator, or power
director. The interconnection and service agreement allows the customer to
interconnect and operate in parallel with the city's distribution system and
allows the city to test and inspect the customer's system periodically to
ensure the safety of electrical workers and the integrity of the city's
electric distribution system. The interconnection and service agreement will
contain additional terms and conditions for service under this electric service
new metering program, including specific terms of interconnection and parallel
operation with the city's electrical system. (Ord. 33-2016, 5-24-2016)
   G.   This electric service net metering program may be adjusted or
discontinued by the city council for any reason, at any time, without any
obligation to existing participants. (Ord. 36-2015, 7-28-2015)
9-7-4: INSPECTIONS:
The city shall have the right to inspect a customer generating facility after
interconnection approval is granted, at reasonable hours and with reasonable
prior notice to the customer. If the city discovers that the customer
generating facility is not in compliance with the requirements of this policy,
and the noncompliance adversely affects the safety or reliability of the
electric distribution system, the city may require the customer to disconnect
the customer generating facility until compliance is achieved. (Ord. 36-2015,
7-28-2015)
9-7-5: DISCONNECT:
The city shall have the right to disconnect the customer generating facility in
the event it causes unusual system problems. The customer will have the option
of correcting the problem, at which time the system will be reinspected before
beginning operation again. The customer shall be required to install a manual
disconnect located within ten feet (10') of the meter. The disconnect shall be
readily accessible by city authorized personnel and located outside any
fencing. In addition, roof mounted systems must have a roof mounted manual
disconnect as per IEEE, NEC and local codes. (Ord. 36-2015, 7-28-2015)
9-7-6: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE:
The customer shall be responsible for any damage caused by the customer
generating facility to the city's distribution system and/or neighboring
services. The customer shall be responsible for the installation and
maintenance of applicable protection equipment, and for any damage caused by
improper application, maintenance or faulty equipment. The city shall not be
liable, directly or indirectly, for permitting or continuing to allow an
attachment or a net metering facility, or for the acts or omissions of the
customer generator that cause loss or injury, including death, to any third
party. (Ord. 36-2015, 7-28-2015)
TITLE 10
BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 1
SURFACE EXTRACTION OF EARTH PRODUCTS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Intent
10-1-2: Scope
10-1-3: Conditions
10-1-4: Bond
10-1-5: Permits
10-1-6: Violation; Penalty
10-1-1: INTENT:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to provide for the extraction of
earth products using surface mining methods, for stockpiling mined minerals,
and for the placement of overburden and leftover earth materials in mining
waste dumps, while protecting the environment, the rights of neighboring
property owners, end roads and other public facilities from unusual wear or
damage. (1984 Code § 15.46.010)
10-1-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply: a) to all sites where sand, gravel,
clay, topsoil, rocks or minerals will be extracted by surface mining methods;
b) to all sites where such extracted earth products are stockpiled; and c) to
sites where overburden and leftover earth materials are placed in mining waste
dumps. (1984 Code § 15.46.020; amd. 2015 Code)
10-1-3: CONDITIONS:
The city shall issue an operating permit for an open pit, a stockpile, or a
waste dump only when all of the following are met:
   A.   Use: The site lies in a zone where such use is a permitted use or where
it may be approved as a conditional use.
   B.   Mine Plan:
      1.   The applicant has presented an accurate mine plan prepared by a
licensed engineer or geologist that shows the topography, utilities, roads and
structures on the site at both the prepermit state as well as intermediate
mining phases or stages up to the conclusion of and the stage after completing
the excavation and reclamation of the mine.
      2.   If the minor uses substandard product (rock, gravel, sand) to
backfill mined out excavations, this will be illustrated in the mine plan. No
potentially hazardous, harmful or illicit material shall be used for backfill.
   C.   Area: There shall be no limit as to the area or portion of a lot that
may be disturbed and involved in the extraction process as long as the entire
disturbed area has been included in the mine plan and the reclamation bond
required in section
10-1-4 of this chapter.
   D.   Standards For Reclamation: The standards for reclamation of the site
shall be:
      1.   The side walls of an excavation or dump shall be smoothed and evenly
contoured, as per the mine plan, and the floor of the excavation or the top of
the dump shall be flattened and graded to a slope not to be less than 0.5
percent in accordance with the mine plan and to allow for drainage.
      2.   Small, unreclaimed cuts or mounds of fill shall not remain after
reclamation of an extraction operation, even if utility poles must be
relocated. All relocation of utility poles will be at the expense of the pole
owner.
      3.   No depression which lacks a surface outlet, or pond or intermittent
lake on the floor of the excavation, shall exist on the reclaimed site. If this
is not possible, an alternate reclamation plan may be allowed by the city to
include a water feature or a detention basin.
      4.   No slope shall be steeper than the critical angle of repose for the
material, thirty three degrees (33°) for gravel deposits; however, shallower
slopes shall be encouraged. The final slopes must be capable of holding
vegetation and in certain specific cases, capable of accommodating a mowing
machine.
      5.   All areas shall be covered with a minimum of six inches (6") or
thicker layer of topsoil and reseeded with a hardy plant material having a
sufficient concentration to screen at least twenty five percent (25%) of the
exposed surface from view. Exceptions: Desert areas which naturally lack soil
or vegetation shall be restored to a surface that corresponds with the native
condition rather than adding soil and/or reseeding.
   E.   Survey Markers: When the excavation or dump and reclamation bond area
cover less than the entire area of the lot, the operator shall place clearly
identifiable survey markers on the outer boundaries of the bonded area and
shall maintain such until the bond is released by the city. An annual on site
investigation and report will be conducted by the designated enforcement
officer to determine whether the terms of the grading plan, mine and
reclamation plan and bond agreement are being met. Pursuant to that
investigation, the bond may be increased or decreased.
   F.   Manner Of Surface Mining: Surface mining shall proceed in an orderly
and logical manner from the more economical deposit (high grade) to the lower
grade and break even areas of the mine. The property will be reclaimed,
including filling in older areas of the mine while new areas are being opened
up. The amount of opened ground (unreclaimed area) shall be kept to a minimum
as approved by the public works director, city engineer or a city inspector.
   G.   Dust Control: Dust generated in the extraction and processing of the
earth products shall be kept under control by the mine operator and contained
on site which may require surfacing roads in the wetting extraction areas and
loaded trucks, placing berm or landscape screening for protection from the
prevailing winds and other suitable measures. Such procedures must also comply
with the standards of state and federal law administered under the state
division of air quality.
   H.   Setback Of Cuts And Fills: All cuts and fills along the perimeter of
the property shall be set back from the property boundary or boundary of the
approved extraction site a distance of at least seventy five feet (75').
   I.   Off Site Plan: The applicant shall present an off site plan of any
local public streets which loaded trucks will use in gaining access to state
highways and arterial streets. The mine operator shall be liable for any damage
his operation has caused. This will be illustrated and documented by a "before"
and an "after" photographic record.
   J.   Nuisance: The extraction operation shall not constitute a nuisance
according to the nuisance legislation of the city as provided in title 5 of
this code. (1984 Code § 15.46.030; amd. 2015 Code)
10-1-4: BOND:
The following bond requirements are established for surface extraction of earth
products:
   A.   A cash or surety bond in the amount set by the city, or the city's
current bond fee schedule. If required by the city, the applicant will prepare
an estimate of reclamation costs to be used in valuing the bond. It shall be
posted by the applicant to guarantee compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and the nuisance provisions of this code. A violation of either
provision shall be sufficient grounds for forfeiture of the bond to the city.
   B.   The city will reevaluate the amount of the bond based upon current
costs of reclamation and the amount of reclamation and/or excavation that has
occurred during the prior year. The bond amount may be increased if the city
determines that an increase is warranted. If determined necessary by the city,
the amount of the bond may be reevaluated more frequently than once per year.
   C.   Any bond shall be accompanied by an agreement between the city and the
applicant (plus the property owner if the latter is not also the applicant)
wherein the city agrees to return the bond at the completion of work if the
standards of this section have been met, and the applicant and property owner
agree that the bond shall be forfeited in the event of noncompliance and to
permit the city or its contractor to enter upon the land to close operations
and reclaim the excavated or filled areas. Any ambiguity or deficiency in the
wording of the bond agreement shall be interpreted to include the terms of this
section.
   D.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to not complete the reclamation
within one year of cessation of operations and grounds for forfeiture of bond.
The "trigger" for such forfeiture shall be any two (2) year period of time in
which no material is extracted, or any one year period when there is no current
business license or valid zoning compliance permit in effect.
   E.   Notwithstanding the forfeiture of the bond, the applicant shall retain
individual responsibility to fully comply with this chapter, the terms of the
permits issued thereunder, and the balance of any expense not covered by the
bond to reclaim the property. However, this chapter shall not impose an
affirmative duty upon the city to expend time or resources to reclaim the
subject property beyond that which can be done with the forfeited bond funds.
(1984 Code § 15.46.040; amd. 2015 Code)
10-1-5: PERMITS:
In addition to the business license and building (or grading) permits required
elsewhere in city ordinances, any surface mining operation shall be required to
have a current zoning compliance permit. No zoning compliance permit for a
surface mining operation shall have a period of validity past December 31, of
each calendar year, but the permit shall be automatically renewed if the mine
is found to be in compliance with the standards of this chapter. The city shall
determine if such compliance exists. Additionally, compliance shall be required
of all surface mining operations within the city with all provisions of the
federal office of surface mining, and the federal mine, safety, and health
administration requirements, as well as the state and federal air quality
requirements administered by the state division of air quality. (1984 Code §
15.46.050; amd. 2015 Code)
10-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or who
fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with any order or
directive made thereunder, shall severally for each and every such violation
and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue. All such persons or entities
shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a
reasonable time and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. (1984
Code § 15.46.060)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING AND RELATED CODES
SECTION:
10-2-1: Codes Adopted
10-2-2: Building Permit Fees And Plan Review Fees
10-2-3: Authority Having Jurisdiction
10-2-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Building Code: The 2018 International Building Code, including
Appendices E and J, but excluding all other appendices, which is promulgated by
the International Code Council, is approved and adopted as the Building Code of
the City.
   B.   Residential Code: The 2015 International Residential Code, including
Appendices E and J, which is promulgated by the International Code Council, is
approved and adopted as the Residential Code of the City.
   C.   Property Maintenance Code: The 2018 International Property Maintenance
Code, which is promulgated by the International Code Council, is approved and
adopted as the code for property maintenance of the City.
   D.   Fire Code: The 2018 International Fire Code, including Appendices C, D,
E, H and I, which is promulgated by the International Code Council, is approved
and adopted as the Fire Code of the City. (Ord. 42-2014, 12-8-2014)
   E.   Wildland-Urban Interface Code: The 2018 International Wildland-Urban
Interface Code, as published by the International Code Council, together with
Appendices A through H thereof, is hereby approved and adopted as the Wildland-
Urban Interface Code of Lehi City, subject to the following amendments thereto:
   Section 101.1. Insert: Lehi City;
   Section 109.4.7. Insert: class B misdemeanor;
   Section 114.4. Insert: not less than $100.00 and not more than $1000.00; and
   Section 602.1. Insert: General. An approved automatic sprinkler system shall
be installed in all occupancies in new buildings required to meet the
requirements for Class 1 and Class 2 ignition-resistant construction in Chapter
5 throughout the Dry Creek Corridor. The installation of the automatic
sprinkler systems shall be in accordance with nationally recognized standards.
   (Ord. 11-2017, 3-24-2017)
   F.   Plumbing Code: The 2018 International Plumbing Code, which is
promulgated by the International Code Council, is approved and adopted as the
code for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing plumbing in the City.
   G.   Mechanical Code: The 2018 International Mechanical Code, which is
promulgated by the International Code Council, is approved and adopted as the
Mechanical Code for the City.
   H.   National Electrical Code: The 2017 National Electrical Code, which is
promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association, is approved and
adopted as the Electrical Code for the City.
   I.   National Electric Safety Code: The 2017 National Electric Safety Code,
which is promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
is approved and adopted as the Electrical Safety Code for the City.
   J.   Fuel Gas Code: The 2018 International Fuel Gas Code, which is
promulgated by the International Code Council, is approved and adopted as the
Fuel Gas Code of the City.
   K.   Energy Conservation Code: The International Energy Conservation Code,
2018 edition, which is promulgated by the International Code Council, is
approved and adopted as the Energy Conservation Code of the City. (Ord. 42-
2014, 12-8-2014; Ord. 63-2019, 9-10-2019)
10-2-2: BUILDING PERMIT FEES AND PLAN REVIEW FEES:
The International Code Council has prepared data containing the average square
foot construction costs which the City Building and Inspection Department will
use in calculating building permit fees. The building permit fee is calculated
by multiplying the appropriate cost per square foot by the total number of
square feet in the structure, which is then multiplied by 0.01852. (Ord. 08-26-
08.35, 8-26-2008; amd. 2015 Code)
10-2-3: AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION:
   A.   Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the
provisions of any of the codes adopted in section
10-2-1 of this chapter, the authority having jurisdiction ("AHJ") has ultimate
responsibility to administer the respective code section and shall have the
authority to grant modifications for individual cases. The obligation to
justify such a modification is on the owner, who shall apply in writing and
state: 1) the specific reason the strict application of the code is
impractical; 2) the requested modification; and 3) the reason that granting the
modification still meets the intent and purpose of the specific code section
and does not lessen the health, life or fire safety requirements. The owner
shall also supply any supporting documentation, reports or other data necessary
for the AHJ to make a determination. The AHJ shall have the right to consult
with other City employees and, if necessary, outside professionals in order to
render an informed decision. The AHJ shall render a written decision within
thirty (30) days of receiving the information described above. If the AHJ
determines that more time is necessary to render a decision, the AHJ shall
inform the owner of such and how much additional time will be necessary.
   B.   The AHJ for each of the codes listed in section
10-2-1 of this chapter shall be as follows:
      1.   International Building Code: Assistant Building Official.
      2.   International Property Maintenance Code: Assistant Building
Official.
      3.   International Residential Code: Assistant Building Official.
      4.   International Fire Code: Fire Marshal.
      5.   International Wildland-Urban Interface Code: Fire Marshal.
      6.   International Plumbing Code: Assistant Building Official.
      7.   International Mechanical Code: Assistant Building Official.
      8.   National Electrical Code: Assistant Building Official.
      9.   National Electric Safety Code: Power Department Operations Manager.
      10.   International Fuel Gas Code: Assistant Building Official.
      11.   International Energy Conservation Code: Assistant Building
Official. (Ord. 42-2014, 12-8-2014; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS IN RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
10-3-1: Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems
10-3-1: AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS:
The city hereby finds and determines that under certain conditions, an
automatic fire sprinkler system shall be installed in structures built in
accordance with the requirements of the international residential code, as
adopted in the state construction code, when any of the following subsections
apply:
   A.   The structure is located in an urban wildland interface area, as
provided in the Utah wildland urban interface code, adopted as a construction
code under the state construction code; and does not meet the requirements
described in Utah Code Annotated section 65A-8-203(3)(a) and the Utah
administrative code section R652-122-200, minimum standards for wildland fire
ordinance.
   B.   The structure is in an area where a public water distribution system
with fire hydrants does not exist as required in Utah administrative code
section R309-550-5, water main design.
   C.   The only fire apparatus access road has a grade greater than ten
percent (10%) for more than five hundred (500) continual feet.
   D.   The water supply to the structure does not provide at least five
hundred (500) gallons' fire flow per minute for a minimum of thirty (30)
minutes, if the total square foot living space of the structure is equal to or
less than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   E.   The water supply to the structure does not provide at least seven
hundred fifty (750) gallons per minute fire flow for a minimum of thirty (30)
minutes, if the total square foot living space exceeds five thousand (5,000)
square feet, but is equal to or less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   F.   The water supply to the structure does not provide at least one
thousand (1,000) gallons per minute fire flow for a minimum of thirty (30)
minutes, if the total square foot living space exceeds ten thousand (10,000)
square feet. (Ord. 06-08-10.4, 6-8-2010)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC SAFETY RADIO SYSTEM COVERAGE
SECTION:
10-4-1: Intent And Purpose
10-4-2: Definitions
10-4-3: Use And Occupancy
10-4-4: Testing Procedures
10-4-5: Amplification Systems Allowed
10-4-6: Exemptions
10-4-7: Costs
10-4-8: Noncompliance
10-4-9: Specifications
10-4-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent of this chapter is to provide a regulatory framework for the purpose
of providing effective countywide coordinated communication system coverage
throughout the city for fire, police and medical services in high rise,
subterranean and large buildings. (Ord. 01-22-08.11, 1-22-2007)
10-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ACCEPTANCE TEST: Initial test after system installation and prior to granting a
fire final and permit of occupancy for the building conducted in the presence
of the authority having jurisdiction, or his agent, as defined in the
international fire code.
ANNUAL TEST: A test conducted on an annual basis in the presence of the
authority having jurisdiction, or his agent, to verify that the performance of
the radio repeater system continues to meet the criteria set forth in this
chapter.
ANTENNA SYSTEM: The cabling and antenna system shall be capable of supporting
frequencies in the seven hundred (700) and eight hundred (800) megahertz public
safety bands.
COUNTYWIDE COORDINATED COMMUNICATION SYSTEM: That radio system used by local
law enforcement, fire, medical and public works departments within the county
of Utah for emergency and nonemergency radio communication on the seven hundred
(700) and eight hundred (800) MHz radio band.
FCC CERTIFIED TECHNICIAN: An authorized individual who is qualified with a
general radio telephone operator license (GROL/PG), or equivalent, to review
design plans and perform tests in affected structures to measure Lehi City
public safety radio system coverage specifications.
FIRE COMMAND CENTER: Room provided in high rise, atrium, covered mall and large
buildings that contain master controls for a variety of life safety systems
serving that building.
HIGH RISE BUILDING: Buildings having occupied floors located more than fifty
five feet (55') above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access.
LEHI CITY PUBLIC SAFETY RADIO SYSTEM COVERAGE SPECIFICATIONS: Those
specifications designed to provide optimum coverage and radio effectiveness
within buildings and structures under the countywide coordinated communication
system.
LOCAL FIRE DEPARTMENT: That fire agency that provides fire protective services
and rescue/EMS services for Lehi City (LFD).
SPECIAL INSPECTOR: An FCC certified technician who is approved by Lehi City/
Utah County dispatch.
SUBTERRANEAN BUILDING: A building having occupied floors located more than
twenty feet (20') below the lowest level of exit discharge.
UCD/COMMUNICATIONS: Utah County dispatch/communications division. (Ord. 01-22-
08.11, 1-22-2007)
10-4-3: USE AND OCCUPANCY:
Except as otherwise provided, no person shall own, erect, construct or occupy
any building or structure, or any part thereof, or cause the same to be done,
which fails to support adequate radio coverage for city emergency service
workers operating on the seven hundred (700) and eight hundred (800) MHz
countywide coordinated communication system. Further, owners must maintain a
reasonable standard of reliable radio communication within their buildings and
structures once a certificate of occupancy is issued. For the purposes of this
section, adequate radio coverage shall include those specifications set forth
in the city public safety radio system coverage specifications. (Ord. 01-22-
08.11, 1-22-2007)
10-4-4: TESTING PROCEDURES:
Test of radio coverage will be conducted pursuant to those specifications in
the city public safety radio system coverage specifications.
   A.   Initial Tests: Initial tests will be performed by FCC certified
technicians in accordance with test standards as listed in the city public
safety radio system coverage specifications. A fire final and/or certificate of
occupancy shall not be issued if said structure, or any part thereof, fails to
comply with these test standards.
   B.   Annual Tests: Annual tests will be conducted by Utah County dispatch,
city fire department personnel, or their agent, in accordance with the test
standards as listed in the city public safety radio system coverage
specifications. (Ord. 01-22-08.11, 1-22-2007)
10-4-5: AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS ALLOWED:
Buildings and structures that cannot support the required level of radio
coverage shall be equipped with amplification systems as specified in the city
public safety radio system coverage specifications, or any other system
approved by the city fire department and Utah County dispatch communications,
in writing. (Ord. 01-22-08.11, 1-22-2007)
10-4-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Existing buildings or structures, unless major renovations,
restoration or significant modifications to the original structure occur;
      2.   Elevators;
      3.   Structures that are three (3) stories or less without subterranean
storage or parking; and
      4.   Wood constructed residential structures four (4) stories or less
without subterranean storage or parking.
   B.   Should construction that is three (3) stories or less include
subterranean storage or parking, then this chapter shall apply only to the
subterranean areas. (Ord. 01-22-08.11, 1-22-2007)
10-4-7: COSTS:
The FCC certified technician is the special inspector who shall be employed by
the owner, the engineer or architect of record, or agent of the owner, but not
the contractor or any other person responsible for the building or structure
construction. (Ord. 01-22-08.11, 1-22-2007)
10-4-8: NONCOMPLIANCE:
After discovery of noncompliance, the building owner is provided three (3)
months to remedy the deficiency and gain compliance. (Ord. 01-22-08.11, 1-22-
2007)
10-4-9: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Performance: Specifications are provided to assist property owners in
satisfying a delivered audio quality (DAQ) of three (3) with a ninety percent
(90%) reliability factor for emergency personnel using radio communication in
their buildings and structures. Property owners who can demonstrate full
compliance with the reliability factor without adhering to all of the following
specifications may be excused from all or part of these provisions. Property
owners who adhere to all of the specifications and fail to reach the
reliability factor must employ all resources necessary to ensure full
compliance. Performance and compliance will be inspected annually as part of
the city fire department fire inspection.
   B.   Signal Strength, Signal Rejection, Modulation Compatibility And
Delivered Audio Quality: The following defines the minimum required level of
radio signal strength:
      1.   A minimum signal strength of -95 dB in ninety five percent (95%) of
the area of each floor of the building from both the seven hundred (700) and
eight hundred (800) MHz countywide communications systems and from within the
building is required.
      2.   The frequency range supported from the seven hundred (700) and eight
hundred (800) MHz countywide communications system shall be seven hundred (700)
to eight hundred sixty nine (869) MHz (base transmitter frequencies).
      3.   The frequency range supported to the eight hundred (800) MHz
countywide communications system shall be seven hundred (700) to eight hundred
twenty four (824) MHz (radio field transmit frequencies).
      4.   A public safety radio amplification system shall include filters to
reject frequencies below seven hundred (700) MHz and frequencies above eight
hundred sixty nine (869) MHz by a minimum of thirty five (35) dB.
      5.   All system components must be one hundred percent (100%) compatible
with analog and digital modulations after installation without additional
adjustments or modifications. The systems must be capable of encompassing the
frequencies stated herein and capable of future modifications to a frequency
range subsequently established by the city. If the system is not capable of
modification to future frequencies, then a new system will need to be installed
to accommodate the new frequency band.
      6.   Active devices shall have a minimum of -50 dB third order
intermodulation protection.
      7.   All active in building coverage devices shall be FCC part 90 type
certified.
      8.   UL listing is required for any AC operated power supplies.
      9.   Active devices shall include a minimum of twelve (12) hours of
battery backup power.
      10.   Any in building coverage system shall be installed by a city
approved, manufacturer trained and certified installer.
   C.   Delivered Audio Quality: The delivered audio quality is defined below:
DAQ Subjective Performance Description
DAQ Subjective Performance Description
1   Unusable, speech present but unreadable.
2   Understandable with considerable effort. Frequent repetition due to noise/
    distortion.
3   Speech understandable with slight effort. Occasional repetition required
    due to noise/distortion.
3.5 Speech understandable with repetition only rarely required. Some noise/
    distortion.
4   Speech easily understood. Occasional noise/distortion.
4.5 Speech easily understood. Infrequent noise/distortion.
5   Speech easily understood.
 
   D.   Remedies To Achieve Compliance (Acceptable Amplification Systems):
      1.   If needed to ensure compliance with the ninety five percent (95%)
reliability factor, the property owner must install each of the following:
         a.   An in building coverage system composed of a radiating cable
system or an internal multiple antenna system with FCC certified bidirectional
amplifier, distribution system and subcomponents capable of accommodating the
seven hundred (700) and eight hundred (800) megahertz band.
         b.   Any active devices (e.g., signal booster) must be encased in a
NEMA 4 (or equivalent) dust/water proof case and clearly labeled "Lehi City
Public Safety Radio".
         c.   Multiband pass filters as required.
      2.   In the event of a power outage, all electrical components must be
equipped with independent auxiliary battery power or generators to function at
full capacity for at least twelve (12) hours.
      3.   Once a system is installed, a spectrum analyzer will be used to
evaluate the system for harmful interference to the countywide coordinated
communications system backbone initially, and annually thereafter by a Utah
County dispatch communications division FCC certified technician. Any
interference must be identified and removed before the system can be accepted.
   E.   Applicable Federal Communications Commission Rule Compliance: All
active devices used to provide extended coverage must be FCC certificated.
      1.   Test Standards; Design Review And Certification:
         a.   Prior to issuance of a building permit, the applicant shall:
            (1)   Retain an FCC certified technician who will review
construction plans in order to ensure that such plans meet the aforementioned
radio communication criteria, and recommend, if needed, an in building solution
for reliable radio communication;
            (2)   Submit copies of plans certified with the signature of the
technician to the fire marshal, city chief building official and Utah County
dispatch communications;
         b.   Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the applicant
shall:
            (1)   Retain an FCC certified technician who will test all areas of
the building or structure, verify installation and operation of in building
solutions, if needed, and certify all of the findings stated herein on the date
of inspection with his/her signature. A passing test is one that demonstrates
DAQ 3 with a ninety five percent (95%) reliability factor on each floor. Owners
of buildings that fail to meet this standard will not be in compliance with
this chapter.
            (2)   The building owner must retain all records of initial and
annual inspections and submit copies to the city fire marshal and Utah County
dispatch communications.
      2.   Initial Test Procedure:
         a.   For purposes of testing, each floor of the building shall be
divided into a grid of approximately twenty (20) equal areas. A maximum of two
(2) nonadjacent areas will be permitted to fail the test. In the event that
three (3) of the areas fail the test, and to provide greater statistical
accuracy, the floor may be divided into forty (40) equal areas. In such an
event, a maximum of four (4) nonadjacent areas will be permitted to fail the
test. As specified by the authority having jurisdiction, the test shall be
conducted by using a Motorola XTS 2500, or equivalent portable radio, talking
through the eight hundred (800) countywide coordinated communications system. A
spot located approximately in the center of a grid area will be selected for
the test. The radio will then be keyed to verify two-way communication to and
from the outside of the building through the countywide communications system.
Once the spot has been selected, prospecting for a better spot within the grid
area will not be permitted.
         b.   All auxiliary power systems shall be tested under load for a
period of one hour to verify that the system will operate properly in the event
of a power outage. The testing technician reserves the discretion to determine
whether or not the battery exhibits symptoms of failure. The FCC certified
technician will ultimately decide if the auxiliary system needs to be replaced
or upgraded.
      3.   Annual Test Procedure: After a certificate of occupancy is issued,
the authority having jurisdiction or appointed agent will annually test the in
building system components to determine general functional operability. If
noncompliance is found, an approved FCC technician will reassess the
improvement upon scheduling by the building owner.
      4.   Battery Replacement: Every two (2) years battery backup systems
shall be replaced per manufacturer specifications.
   F.   Additional Equipment Feature Requirements: Active devices shall be
alarmed. A telephone line will provide dial tone to an alarm device. The alarm
device will be programmed to activate Utah County's paging system to notify a
failure. Access to the active components of the in building coverage system (if
any) is required twenty four (24) hours a day by county technicians/engineers.
The minimum alarms will indicate loss of AC failure and operational failure.
The device shall also have modem access to allow remote monitoring.
   G.   New Building Construction: All new building construction shall have a
two inch (2") conduit installed for wire and cable routing between the first
and bottom subterranean floor and said conduit shall extend along the center of
the building to the roof. The conduit shall be dedicated to the public safety
radio system and the fire command center and shall not have any interference
from outside sources. At each floor the ceiling and the roof, an opening shall
be made to afford easy access to the conduit. Access in either the form of drop
ceiling or conduit shall be made available along hallways and through
firewalls. All subterranean parking garages shall have a similar conduit
installation.
   H.   Survivability: All wiring shall be installed in conduit. All main
risers or trunks of the antenna system shall be installed with resistance to
attack from fire by a two (2) hour fire rated cable, cable system or enclosure.
   I.   Tower: The owner of the building shall construct a tower at the highest
point of the building or make reasonable accommodations to equip an existing
tower with the necessary equipment, including, but not limited to, signal
boosters, bidirectional amplifiers, transmitters, receivers, cabling, etc.,
that shall be compatible with the countywide coordinated communications system
and shall be unobstructed and free from interference. (Ord. 01-22-08.11, 1-22-
2007)
CHAPTER 5
CULVERT, BRIDGE AND CHANNEL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Minimum Design Requirements
10-5-1: MINIMUM DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All new culverts, bridges or channel lining projects constructed on the
Dry Creek and Waste Ditch streams below Interstate Freeway 15 shall be capable
of passing a flood flow of three hundred (300) cfs and five hundred fifty (550)
cfs, respectively.
   B.   All new culverts, bridges or channel lining projects constructed above
Interstate Freeway 15 on the Dry Creek stream shall be capable of passing a 50-
year flood flow. (1984 Code § 15.40.010; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 6
POLE ATTACHMENT FEE
SECTION:
10-6-1: Nonmunicipal Utility Attachment Fee
10-6-1: NONMUNICIPAL UTILITY ATTACHMENT FEE:
An annual fee as adopted by the city council in the city fee schedule per pole
shall be charged to each nonmunicipal utility attaching to city power poles.
(1984 Code § 15.42.010; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 7
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Statutory Authorization
10-7A-2: Findings Of Fact
10-7A-3: Statement Of Purpose
10-7A-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-7A-5: Definitions
10-7A-6: Applicability
10-7A-7: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-7A-8: Establishment Of Development Permit
10-7A-9: Compliance
10-7A-10: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-7A-11: Interpretation
10-7A-12: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-7A-13: Severability
10-7A-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the State of Utah has in Utah Code Annotated 10-8-84
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the City Council of Lehi adopts the regulations of this
chapter to minimize flood losses. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7A-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   Flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in
floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous to
other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise
protected from flood damage. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7A-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by enacting provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7A-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7A-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application. As used in this
chapter:
              Means flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar landform
ALLUVIAL FAN  which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-velocity flows, active
FLOODING:     processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition, and unpredictable flow
              paths.
              Means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of
APEX:         the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
              flooding can occur.
APPEAL:       Means a request for a review of the building official's interpretation of any
              provision of this chapter, or a request for a variance.
              Means a designated AO, AH, or VO zone on the City's Flood Insurance Rate Map
AREA OF       (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual chance of flooding to an
SHALLOW       average depth of one (1) to three (3) feet where a clearly defined channel does
FLOODING:     not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may
              be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
              The land in the floodplain within the City subject to a one percent or greater
AREA OF       chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as Zone A on the
SPECIAL FLOOD Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed ratemaking has been completed in
HAZARD:       preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A,
              AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
BASE FLOOD:   Means the flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in
              any given year.
              The water surface elevation of the one percent (1%) annual chance flood event. It
              is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the waters
BASE FLOOD    of the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine
ELEVATION     areas. It is also the elevation shown on the FIRM and found in the accompanying
(BFE):        Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that
              indicates the water surface elevation resulting from the flood that has a one
              percent (1%) chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.
BASEMENT:     Means any area of the building having its floor sub-grade, or below ground level,
              on all sides.
CRITICAL      Means an integral and readily identifiable part of a flood protection system
FEATURE:      without which the flood protection provided by the entire system would be
              compromised.
              Means any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate, including but not
DEVELOPMENT:  limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
              paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
              Means a non-basement building (i) built, in the case of a building in Zones A1-30,
              AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in
              the case of a building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest
              horizontal structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level
              by means of pilings, column posts and piers, or shear walls parallel to the floor
              of the water and (ii) adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural
              integrity of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
ELEVATED      In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated
BUILDING:     building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
              perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
              flood waters.
              In the case of Zones V1-30, VE, or V, "elevated building" also includes a building
              otherwise meeting the definition of "elevated building," even though the lower
              area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls met the
              standards of Section 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program
              regulations.
              Means for the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the "start of
EXISTING      construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1,
CONSTRUCTION: 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also be
              referred to as "existing structures."
              Means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of
EXISTING      facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
MANUFACTURED  affixed including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction
HOME PARK OR  of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, is
SUBDIVISION:  completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
              adopted by the City.
EXPANSION TO  Means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
AN EXISTING   servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including
MANUFACTURED  the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
HOME PARK OR  grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
SUBDIVISION:
FLOOD or      Means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
FLOODING:     normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters, or the
              unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD         Means an official map of the City on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency
INSURANCE     has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
RATE MAP      applicable to the City. A FIRM that has been made available digitally is called a
(FIRM):       Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
FLOOD         The official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The
INSURANCE     report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base flood, as well
STUDY:        as the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map, if applicable, Flood Insurance Rate Map and
              supporting technical data.
FLOODPLAIN or
FLOOD-PRONE   Means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source.
AREA:
FLOODPLAIN    Means the operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures
MANAGEMENT:   for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness
              plans, flood control works and floodplain management regulations.
              Means zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health
FLOODPLAIN    regulations, special purpose ordinances such as a floodplain ordinance, grading
MANAGEMENT    ordinance and erosion control ordinance, and other applications of police power.
REGULATIONS:  The term describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
              which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
              Means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
FLOOD         adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or
PROOFING:     improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
              contents.
              Means those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized,
              appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify
FLOOD         flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas within the City subject to a
PROTECTION    "special flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a
SYSTEM:       system typically includes dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized
              flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
              standards.
FLOODWAY or   Means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
REGULATORY    must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
FLOODWAY:     increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
              Means a use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or
FUNCTIONALLY  carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking
DEPENDENT     facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of
USE:          cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair facilities, but does not
              include long-term storage or related manufacturing facilities.
HIGHEST       Means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction
ADJACENT      next to the proposed walls of a structure.
GRADE:
              Means any structure that is:
              A.    Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places, which is a
              listing maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by
              the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing
              on the National Register;
              B.    Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
              contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a
              district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC      historic district;
STRUCTURE:    C.    Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
              historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of
              Interior; or
              D.   Individually listed on a local community's inventory of historic places in
              communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
                 1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
              Interior or;
                 2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
              programs.
              Means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
LEVEE:        constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or
              divert the flow of water to provide protection from temporary flooding.
              Means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees, and
LEVEE SYSTEM: associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed
              and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
              Means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An
              unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking or vehicles,
LOWEST FLOOR: building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered
              a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to
              render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
              requirement of Section 60.3 of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
              Means a structure transportable in one (1) or more sections, which is built on a
MANUFACTURED  permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation
HOME:         when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not
              include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED  Means a parcel or contiguous parcels of land divided into two (2) or more
HOME PARK OR  manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
MEAN SEA      Means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the National Geodetic
LEVEL:        Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown
              on the City's Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
              Means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures for which the
              "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of an initial
NEW           FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
CONSTRUCTION: improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes, "new
              construction" means structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
              or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by the
              City and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
              Means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of
NEW           facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
MANUFACTURED  affixed, including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction
HOME PARK OR  of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, is
SUBDIVISION:  completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations
              adopted by the City.
              Means a vehicle which is built on a single chassis, four hundred (400) square feet
RECREATIONAL  or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections, designed to be self-
VEHICLE:      propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and designed primarily not
              for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational,
              camping, travel, or seasonal use.
              Includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
              issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
              rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one hundred
              eight (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
              placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring
              of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or
              any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home
START OF      on a foundation.
CONSTRUCTION: Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
              grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets or walkways;
              nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the
              erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property
              of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
              not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of
              construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
              structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
              dimensions of the building.
              Means a building with two (2) or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured
              roof, that is affixed to a permanent site; a manufactured home, also known as a
STRUCTURE:    mobile home, transported to its site in one or more sections, and affixed to a
              permanent foundation; or a travel trailer without wheels, built on a chassis and
              affixed to a permanent foundation, that is regulated under the City's floodplain
              management and building ordinances or laws.
SUBSTANTIAL   Means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring
DAMAGE:       the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent
              (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
              Means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a
              structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market
              value of the structure before "start of construction" of the improvement. This
              includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the
SUBSTANTIAL   actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
IMPROVEMENT:  A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
              state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
              identified by the code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary
              conditions or
              B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration will
              not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure."
              A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter when specific
VARIANCE:     enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore, permits
              construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter.
              Means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with
              the City's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development
VIOLATION:    without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of
              compliance required in Section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)
              (4), or (e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations is presumed to
              be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
              Means the height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of
WATER SURFACE 1929 or other datum, where specified, of floods of various magnitudes and
ELEVATION:    frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-
              2020)
 
10-7A-6: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the City. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7A-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood
Insurance Study for Utah County, Utah and Incorporated Areas", dated June 19,
2020, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary-Floodway
Maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7A-8: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7A-9: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7A-10: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 35-2020,
6-9-2020)
10-7A-11: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be
considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the City,
and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State
statutes. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7A-12: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7A-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, provision, or portion of this ordinance is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court, the remainder of the ordinance shall
not be affected. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
ARTICLE B. ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-7B-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-7B-3: Permit Procedures
10-7B-4: Approval Or Denial Of Development Permit
10-7B-5: Variances
10-7B-6: Appeals
10-7B-1: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The building official is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 CFR, National Flood Insurance Program Regulations, pertaining to
floodplain management. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7B-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   B.   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building site,
including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from
flooding;
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies, including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334, from which prior approval is required;
   E.   Provide interpretation as to the exact location of the boundaries of
the areas of special flood hazards, for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions;
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Floodplain Manager, Division of Emergency Management, prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   H.   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and
floodway data available from a federal, state or other source, in order to
administer the provisions of this chapter when base flood elevation data has
not been provided in accordance with this chapter;
   I.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, require that no new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development, including fill,
shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on the City's FIRM, unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point
within the City; and
   J.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, approve certain development in
Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the City's FIRM which increases the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that the City first
applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9- 2020)
10-7B-3: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the Floodplain
Administrator on furnished forms and may include, but not be limited to, plans
in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of
proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures, including the
placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation
to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is
required:
   A.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor, including
basement, of all new and substantially improved structures;
   B.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
   C.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect that
the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing criteria
of this chapter; and
   D.   A description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7B-4: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain Administrator
shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the following
relevant factors:
   A.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   B.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   C.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   D.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   E.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   F.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
   G.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
   H.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   I.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
   J.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that
area. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7B-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   The land use hearing examiner as established by the City shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures, upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure, listed on the National Register
of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to
the procedures set forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   C.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (½) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section
10-7B-4 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (½) acre, the technical justification required for issuing
the variance increases.
   D.   Upon consideration of the factors noted in this section and the intent
of this chapter, the land use hearing examiner may attach such conditions to
the granting of variances as deemed necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of this chapter.
   E.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   F.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   G.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, the creation of nuisances, causing fraud on or victimization of
the public, or a conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   H.   Variances may be issued by the land use hearing examiner for new
construction and substantial improvements and for other development necessary
for the conduct of a functionally dependent use provided the criteria outlined
in section
10-7B-4 are met, and the structure or other development is protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety.
   I.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving a variance and shall report variances to the State Floodplain
Manager, the State Division of Emergency Management, and Federal Emergency
Management Agency. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7B-6: APPEALS:
   A.   The land use hearing examiner shall hear and render judgement on an
appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision,
or determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   B.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the land use hearing
examiner may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report appeals to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
ARTICLE C. PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
10-7C-1: General Standards
10-7C-2: Anchoring
10-7C-3: Construction Materials And Methods
10-7C-4: Utilities
10-7C-5: Specific Standards
10-7C-6: Residential Construction
10-7C-7: Nonresidential Construction
10-7C-8: Enclosures
10-7C-9: Manufactured Homes
10-7C-10: Recreational Vehicles
10-7C-11: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
10-7C-12: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding In AO and AH Zones
10-7C-13: Floodways
10-7C-14: Penalties
10-7C-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards, the standards set out in this Article C
are required for all new construction and substantial improvements. (Ord. 35-
2020, 6- 9-2020)
10-7C-2: ANCHORING:
All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed or modified
and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of
the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7C-3: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7C-4: UTILITIES:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
   B.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   C.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7C-5: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in section
10-7A-7, Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard, the
standards set forth in sections
10-7C-6 through
10-7C-13 of this article are required. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7C-6: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the base flood
elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor
shall submit a certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard
of this subsection is satisfied. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7C-7: NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial, industrial or
other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the base flood level or together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop and review structural design,
specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the
design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such certification which
includes the specific elevation in relation to mean sea level to which such
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7C-8: ENCLOSURES:
New construction and substantial improvements with fully enclosed areas below
the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs
for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
   A.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one
(1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
   B.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot above
grade.
   C.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7C-9: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   All manufactured homes placed within Zone A on the City's FHBM or FIRM
shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For
the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable State and
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   B.   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within
Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the City's FIRM on sites (i) outside of a
manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   C.   Manufactured homes placed or substantially improved on sites in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30, AH and AE on
the City's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of this section shall be
elevated so that either:
      1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base
flood elevation, or
      2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six (36) inches in height above grade and are securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7C-10: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
Recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the
City's FIRM shall either:
   A.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
   B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
   C.   Meet the permit requirements of
10-7C-9 and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes. A
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-
9-2020)
10-7C-11: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with Article A.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development
Permit requirements of Sections
10-7B-3 and
10-7B-4 and the provisions of this Article C.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which are greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5)
acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7C-12: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING IN AO AND AH ZONES:
Located within the areas of special flood hazard are areas designated as
shallow flooding. These areas have special flood hazards associated with base
flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not
exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow
may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow;
therefore, the following provisions apply:
   A.   Within Zone AO, all new construction and substantial improvements of
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number
specified in feet on the City's FIRM, or at least two (2) feet if no depth
number is specified.
   B.   Within Zone AO, all new construction and substantial improvements of
non-residential structures:
      1.   Shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the City's FIRM, or at least two (2) feet if no depth number is specified,
or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   C.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section are satisfied.
   D.   Within Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths around structures on
slopes shall be required to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7C-13: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazard established in this chapter are
areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous
area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection A. of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this Article C.
   C.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations, provided that the community first applies for a conditional
FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA.
   D.   Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no new construction,
substantial improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be
permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one (1) foot at any
point within the City. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
10-7C-14: PENALTIES:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this ordinance
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a class C misdemeanor. Any person who violates this article or fails
to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or imprisoned for not more
than ninety (90) days, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case and all costs necessary to come
into compliance with the article. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Lehi
City from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy
any violation. (Ord. 35-2020, 6-9-2020)
CHAPTER 8
VIOLATION; PENALTY
SECTION:
10-8-1: Violation; Penalty
10-8-1: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this title, as adopted,
or fails to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any
order made thereunder, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue. All such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
period of time. When not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. (1984
Code § 15.48.010; amd. 2015 Code)
TITLE 11
LAND USE, DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1
DEVELOPMENT CODE
SECTION:
11-1-1: Development Code Adopted
11-1-1: DEVELOPMENT CODE ADOPTED:
The publication known as the Lehi City development code, adopted September 24,
1996, and as amended by motion of the city council, one copy of which is filed
in the office of the city recorder, is adopted by reference, in its entirety,
as presently constituted and shall be known as title 11 of this code. (1984
Code § 18.04.010; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PLAN
SECTION:
11-2-1: Land Use Element Adopted
11-2-2: Master Transportation Plan Adopted
11-2-1: LAND USE ELEMENT ADOPTED:
The Lehi City general plan is amended to include the 1996 land use element,
which is attached to ordinance 8-13-96A and incorporated herein by this
reference, including all goals and policies and its accompanying land use map,
entitled the "Lehi City General Plan Land Use Map", and all subsequent
amendments. (1984 Code § 18.08.010; amd. 2015 Code)
11-2-2: MASTER TRANSPORTATION PLAN ADOPTED:
The Lehi City master transportation plan dated April 28, 2009, as amended, one
copy of which is filed in the office of the city recorder, is adopted by
reference, in its entirety, as presently constituted and shall be known as the
"Lehi City Master Transportation Plan". All provisions, maps, schedules and
policies in prior plans which are inconsistent with the presently adopted plan
are repealed. (1984 Code § 18.08.020; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICT MAP
SECTION:
11-3-1: Zoning District Map Adopted
11-3-1: ZONING DISTRICT MAP ADOPTED:
The Lehi City zoning district map (formerly the zoning map) and all subsequent
amendments, is hereby adopted by reference. As provided by section 05-010 of
the Lehi City development code, the zoning map of the city is now identified as
the "Lehi City Zoning District Map". (1984 Code § 18.12.010; amd. 2015 Code)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GUIDELINES AND DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Availability Of Public Facilities Required
12-1-2: Standards And Specifications Adopted
12-1-3: Violation; Penalty
12-1-1: AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC FACILITIES REQUIRED:
   A.   From and after the effective date hereof, no request for subdivision
approval shall be granted, approved or issued unless the applicant has provided
information necessary to establish that adequate public facilities in the area
affected by the proposed development have been determined to have sufficient
capacity available at the adopted level of service standards to accommodate the
proposed development within a reasonable period of time following the issuance
of final subdivision plat approval for the proposed development.
   B.   Essential public facilities to which this requirement will apply
include the following:
      1.   Culinary water system, including water quality, treatment, storage
capacity and transmission/distribution system capacity.
      2.   Secondary water (pressurized irrigation), including source, storage
capacity, transmission and distribution, and storage capacity.
      3.   Sanitary sewer system, including treatment facilities, outfall
lines, lateral and collector lines.
      4.   Storm drainage, including surface and subsurface, and flood control
facilities.
      5.   Transportation facilities, including streets, roads, highways and
intersections.
      6.   Parks and related recreational facilities.
      7.   Power facilities, including service, transmission and lighting.
   C.   Procedures for processing applications for subdivision approval and
setting forth information which the applicant shall be required to submit in
support of an application for subdivision approval, together with criteria for
determining whether adequate public facilities are available at adopted level
of service standards shall be set forth in the city development standards and
public improvement specifications, which are adopted by this reference, in
their entirety, as more fully set forth in section
12-1-2 of this chapter. (1984 Code § 17.04.010; amd. 2015 Code)
12-1-2: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS ADOPTED:
The publication known as the Lehi City design standards and public improvement
specifications, December 2009, revision, as amended, one copy of which is filed
in the office of the city recorder, is adopted by reference, in its entirety,
as presently constituted and shall be known as this section. (Ord. 12-08-09.33,
12-8-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
12-1-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this title or fails to comply
therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with any order made thereunder,
or who builds or constructs in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
fails to comply with an order as affirmed or modified by the city council or by
a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall
severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be
guilty of a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. (1984 Code §
17.04.030; amd. 2015 Code)
