CITY CODE
of
LEWISTON CITY, UTAH
2002
Code current through:
Ord. 2020-05, passed November 17, 2020
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Lewiston City, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 2020-05, passed November 17, 2020.  Ordinances of
the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Ordinances listed have been passed, but have not been incorporated in the
actual code. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2002-05
   ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY OF LEWISTON, UTAH CITY CODE
   BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Lewiston, Utah,
as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Lewiston, Utah prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the city,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED this   17th   day of, September, 2002.
APPROVED this   17th   day of, September, 2002.
/s/  L. Paul Dent      
   Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/  Julie T. Bergeson      
   City Recorder
Roll call vote:
AYES: 4
NAYS: 0
ABSENT: 1
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Incorporation Of Statutes
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Lewiston City. This
city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the LEWISTON CITY CODE and
is hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented
to incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal document. (1980 Code § 1-001; amd. 2002
Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2002 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2002 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city
recorder. Any person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every
effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of
the city recorder. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and
shall be returned to the office of the city recorder when directed so to do by
order of the city council. (2002 Code)
1-1-5: INCORPORATION OF STATUTES:
Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or construed
to include, incorporate or make the citation or statute part of this code
unless the provisions of this code specifically include, incorporate or make
the citation or statute part of this code by reference or incorporation, and
any such reference or citation not specifically included or incorporated may be
changed, amended or deleted without publication upon an order of the city
council. (1980 Code § 1-009)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the city passed prior
to the adoption of this city code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this city code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvements ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances. (1980 Code § 1-
002; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceedings
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed, or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (1980 Code § 1-003)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2002 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2002 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1980 Code § 1-007; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. The use of any
verb in the present tense shall include the future and past tense when
applicable. (2002 Code)
   B.   All words and phrases shall be constructed and understood according to
the common use and understanding of the language; the technical words and
phrases and such other words and phrases as may have acquired a particular
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such particular
meaning. (1980 Code § 1-005)
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2002 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BUSINESS: Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license or permit is required by any ordinance of the
city.
CITY: The city of Lewiston City, Cache County, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of Lewiston City,
Utah.
CITY RECORDER: The individual appointed to act as the city recorder of the
city.
CODE: The city code of Lewiston City, Utah.
COUNTY: Cache County, Utah.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Lewiston
City".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
HIGHWAY; ROAD: Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the words
"county way", "county road", "common road", and "state road".
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation. The term "license" includes any certificate, permit or license
issued by the city.
LOCATION: Whenever any act, conduct or offense is prohibited or required and no
reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of this city.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the city.
OCCUPANT OR TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS OR OFFICIALS: Any elected or appointed person employed by the city,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Whenever reference is made in
this code to a city officer or official by title only, this shall be construed
as though followed by the words "of Lewiston City".
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, limited liability
company, association, organization, government or any other group acting as a
unit, as well as a natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and
intersections.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
TIME COMPUTED: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any
ordinance or in any resolution or order of the city, when expressed in days,
shall be determined by excluding the first day and including the last day,
except if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the last day shall
be the day next following such Sunday or legal holiday which is not a Sunday or
legal holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sundays and all legal holidays
shall be excluded.
WEEK: Shall be construed to mean any seven (7) day period.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer", as used in this
code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1980 Code § 1-005; amd. 2002 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1980 Code § 1-006; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-3: Administrative Hearings
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 : Unless otherwise specifically
authorized by statute, the city council may provide a penalty for the violation
of any city ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301, or by a term of imprisonment
up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of imprisonment. The city
council may prescribe a minimum penalty for the violation of any city ordinance
and may impose a civil penalty for the unauthorized use of city property,
including, but not limited to, the use of parks, streets and other public
grounds or equipment. Rules of civil procedure shall be substantially followed.
(2002 Code)
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days. (1980 Code § 1-322)
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor. (1980 Code §
1-323; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction. (1980 Code § 1-331; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the city, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this city has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (1980 Code § 3-332; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-703.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 4. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 1. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this city shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided. (1980 Code § 1-311)
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions. (1980 Code § 1-312)
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this city when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 1-313)
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this city, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this city which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction. (1980 Code § 1-314)
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (1980 Code § 1-315)
 
Notes
1 2. UCA § 76-3-104.
1-4-3: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   Request: Unless otherwise specifically provided in any ordinance of the
city or any code adopted by reference, a hearing before the city council may be
requested by any person:
      1.   Who is denied or refused a permit or license by any officer, agent
or employee of this city.
      2.   Whose permit or license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited
from that for which it was first issued. (1980 Code § 1-411)
   B.   Form Of Request: The request for hearing must be made in writing to the
mayor or city recorder and made within thirty (30) days following the date
notice denying, refusing, revoking, qualifying or restricting the license or
permit is mailed by the city to the applicant or license holder at his address
as it appears on the application or license. (1980 Code § 1-412)
   C.   Procedure:
      1.   Time And Place: Following receipt of a request for hearing, the city
council shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and place the
hearing is to be held.
      2.   Witnesses; Evidence: At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have
the right to hear and examine any witnesses the city may produce to support its
decision and to present his own evidence in support of his contention.
      3.   Decision Of City Council: The city council shall, within ten (10)
days following the conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who
requested the hearing of the decision of the city council. (1980 Code § 1-413)
   D.   Not Additional Remedy: This section shall not be construed so as to
afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the city council, nor
shall the hearing provided in this section apply to any criminal complaint or
proceeding. (1980 Code § 1-414)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Eligibility And Residency Requirements
1-5-2: Membership; Terms
1-5-3: Mayor As Member Of City Council
1-5-4: Municipal Administration
1-5-5: Meetings; Procedure And Conduct
1-5-6: Ordinances And Resolutions; Procedures
1-5-1: ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Declaration Of Candidacy: A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a city office shall:
      1.   Have been a resident of the city for at least one year immediately
before the date of the election; and
      2.   Meet the other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-
203.
   B.   Annexed Areas: A person living in an area annexed to the city meets the
residency requirement of this section if that person resided within the area
annexed to the city for at least one year before the date of the election.
   C.   Registered Voter: Any person elected to city office shall be a
registered voter in the city.
   D.   Residency Maintained: Each elected officer of the city shall maintain
residency within the boundaries of the city during his term of office.
   E.   Residence Outside City: If an elected officer of the city establishes
his principal place of residence, as provided in Utah Code Annotated section
20A-2-105, outside of the city during his term of office, the office is
automatically vacant.
   F.   Continuous Absence From City: If an elected city officer is absent from
the city any time during his term of office for a continuous period of more
than sixty (60) days without the consent of the city council, the city office
is automatically vacant. (1980 Code § 3-301; amd. 2002 Code)
1-5-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
   A.   Composition: The city council shall be a council of six (6) persons,
one of whom shall be the mayor and the remaining five (5) shall be council
members. (1980 Code § 3-105; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Election; Terms: The election and terms of office of the officers shall
be as follows:
      1.   The offices of mayor and two (2) council members shall be filled in
municipal elections held in 1977. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
      2.   The offices of the other three (3) council members shall be filled
in a municipal election held in 1979. The terms shall be for four (4) years.
These offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
      3.   The offices shall be filled in at large elections which shall be
held at the time and the manner provided for electing municipal officers. (1980
Code § 3-205; amd. 2002 Code)
      4.   Where both two (2) year and four (4) year terms are to be filled by
election or appointment, the election ballot or appointment shall clearly state
which persons are to be elected or appointed to the shorter term and to the
longer term. (1980 Code § 3-207; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Vacancy In Office: Mayor or city council vacancies shall be filled as
provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510. (1980 Code § 3-303; amd.
2002 Code)
1-5-3: MAYOR AS MEMBER OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Administration Vested In Mayor: The administrative powers, authority
and duties are vested in the mayor. (1980 Code § 3-808; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Presiding Officer; Mayor Pro Tempore: The mayor shall be the
chairperson and preside at the meetings of the city council. In the absence of
the mayor or because of his inability or refusal to act, the city council may
elect a member of the city council to preside over the meeting as mayor pro
tempore, who shall have all the powers and duties of the mayor during his
absence or disability. The election of a mayor pro tempore shall be entered in
the minutes of the meeting. (1980 Code § 3-403; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Voting; No Vote Except In Tie: The mayor shall not vote, except in the
case of a tie vote of the city council. (1980 Code § 3-402; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Powers And Duties: The mayor shall:
      1.   Be the chief executive officer to whom all employees of the city
shall report;
      2.   Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the city;
      3.   Remit fines and forfeitures and may release any person imprisoned
for violation of any city ordinance;
      4.   Report such remittance or release to the city council at its next
regular session;
      5.   Perform all duties prescribed by law, resolution or ordinance;
      6.   Ensure that all the laws and ordinances and resolutions are
faithfully executed and observed;
      7.   May at any reasonable time examine and inspect the books, papers,
records or documents of the city or of any officer, employee or agent of the
city;
      8.   Report to the city council the condition of the city and recommend
for city council consideration any measures as deemed to be in the best
interests of the city;
      9.   When necessary, call on the residents of the city over the age of
twenty one (21) years to assist in enforcing the laws of the state and
ordinances of the city; and
      10.   Appoint, with the advice and consent of the city council, persons
to fill city offices or vacancies on commissions or committees of the city.
(1980 Code § 3-809; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   No Veto: The mayor shall have no power to veto any act of the city
council, unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute. (1980 Code § 3-
404; amd. 2002 Code)
1-5-4: MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Prescribe Additional Powers And Duties: The city council may, by
resolution, prescribe additional duties, powers and responsibilities for any
elected or appointed official which are not prohibited by any specific statute,
except that the mayor may not serve as city recorder and neither the mayor nor
the city recorder may serve as city treasurer. A justice court judge may not
hold any other city office or position of employment with the city. (1980 Code
§ 3-810; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Members Of Council May Be Appointed To Administration: The mayor may,
with the advice and consent of the majority of the city council, assign or
appoint any member or members of the city council to administer one or more
departments of the city and shall by ordinance provide the salary of the
administrator. (1980 Code § 3-811; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Change Of Duties: The mayor may, with the concurrence of a majority of
the city council, change the administrative assignment of any member of the
city council who is serving in any administrative position in the city
government. (1980 Code § 3-812; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   General Administrative Powers: The city council shall, from time to
time, prescribe the powers and duties to be performed by the superintendents,
supervisors, department directors and all of its officers and employees. (1980
Code § 3-813; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Personnel Assigned To One Or More Departments: The city council may
assign any individual to one or more positions in one or more departments.
(1980 Code § 3-814; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Rules And Regulations For Administration: The city council shall
prescribe rules and regulations which are not inconsistent with the laws of
this state, as it deems best for the efficient administration, organization,
conduct and business of the city. (1980 Code § 3-815; amd. 2002 Code)
   G.   Appointed Officers; Residency Requirements: The city council may
require by ordinance that any or all appointed officers reside in the city.
(1980 Code § 3-816; amd. 2002 Code)
1-5-5: MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   The city council shall conduct regular meetings which shall be held
on the third Tuesday of each month at the Lewiston city offices at 29 South
Main Street, Lewiston, Utah, which meetings shall begin promptly at eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M., but if the meeting date is a legal holiday, then the
meeting shall be held at the same time and place above described on the fourth
Tuesday. (Ord. 02-01, 2-25-2002)
      2.   The city council may by ordinance provide for a different time and
place for holding regular meetings of the city council. (1980 Code § 3-502;
amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings: If at any time the business of the city requires a
special meeting of the city council, such meeting may be ordered by the mayor
or any two (2) members of the city council. The order shall be entered in the
minutes of the city council. The order shall provide at least three (3) hours'
notice of the special meeting and notice thereof shall be served by the city
recorder on each member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice
personally or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode. The personal
appearance by a council member at any specially called meeting constitutes a
waiver of the notice required in this subsection. (1980 Code § 3-503; amd. 2002
Code)
   C.   Open Meetings: Every meeting is open to the public, unless closed
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 52-4-4 and 52-4-5. (1980 Code § 3-601;
amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Quorum:
      1.   Defined: The number of members of the city council necessary to
constitute a quorum is three (3) or more. (1980 Code § 3-505; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Necessary: No action of the city council shall be official or of any
effect, except when a quorum of the members are present. Fewer than a quorum
may adjourn from time to time. (1980 Code § 3-504; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Voting:
      1.   How Vote Taken: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all
ordinances, resolutions and any action which would create a liability against
the city, and in any other case at the request of any member of the city
council, by a "yes" or a "no" vote and shall be recorded. Every resolution or
ordinance shall be in writing before the vote is taken. (1980 Code § 3-507;
amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Minimum Vote Required: The minimum number of votes required to pass
any ordinance, resolution or to take any action by the city council, unless
otherwise prescribed by law, shall be a majority of the members of the quorum,
but shall never be less than three (3).
         a.   Any ordinance, resolution or motion of the city council having
fewer favorable votes than required herein shall be deemed defeated and
invalid, except a meeting may be adjourned to a specific time by a majority
vote of the city council even though such majority vote is less than that
required herein.
         b.   A majority of the members of the city council, regardless of
number, may fill any vacancy in the city council. (1980 Code § 3-508; amd. 2002
Code)
      3.   Reconsideration: Any action taken by the city council shall not be
reconsidered or rescinded at any special meeting unless the number of members
of the city council present at the special meeting is equal to or greater than
the number of members present at the meeting when the action was approved.
(1980 Code § 3-509; amd. 2002 Code)
1-5-6: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The city council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the city shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel. (1980 Code § 3-702; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Penalty For Violation: Unless otherwise specifically authorized by
statute, the city council may provide a penalty for the violation of any city
ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor fine under
Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a term of imprisonment up to six (6)
months, or by both the fine and term of imprisonment. The city council may
prescribe a minimum penalty for the violation of any city ordinance and may
impose a civil penalty for the unauthorized use of city property, including,
but not limited to, the use of parks, streets and other public grounds or
equipment. Rules of civil procedure shall be substantially followed. (1980 Code
§ 3-703; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the city council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states "Be it ordained by Lewiston City:";
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
city ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or acting mayor to sign the
ordinance;
      9.   A place for the city recorder to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the city. (1980 Code § 3-704; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1.   Ordinances passed or enacted by the city council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
city council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-704(1), (2), (3) or (4). (1980 Code § 3-705; amd.
2002 Code)
      2.   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the city council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance.
      3.   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become
effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days
after final passage by the city council, whichever is sooner. (1980 Code § 3-
712; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances: All ordinances, except those
enacted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-706 to 10-3-710, before
taking effect shall be deposited in the office of the city recorder and a short
summary of the ordinance published at least once in a newspaper published
within the city, or if there is no newspaper published therein, then by posting
complete copies in three (3) public places within the city. Any ordinance, code
or book, other than the state code, relating to building or safety standards,
city functions, administration, control or regulations, may be adopted and
shall take effect without further publication or posting, if reference is made
to the code or book and at least three (3) copies have been filed for use and
examination by the public in the office of the city recorder prior to the
adoption of the ordinance by the city council. Any state law relating to
building or safety standards, city functions, administration, control or
regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further publication
or posting if reference is made to the state code. The ordinance adopting the
code or book shall be published in the manner provided in Utah Code Annotated
sections 10-3-709 and 10-3-710. (1980 Code § 3-711; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Recording, Numbering And Certification Of Passage: The city recorder
shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, all ordinances
passed by the city council. The city recorder shall give each ordinance a
number, if the city council has not already so done. Immediately following each
ordinance, or codification of ordinances, the city recorder shall make or cause
to be made a certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of
publication or posting, as required. The record and memorandum, or a certified
copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage and
publication or posting of the ordinance or codification. (1980 Code § 3-713;
amd. 2002 Code)
   G.   Resolutions:
      1.   Purpose: Unless otherwise required by law, the city council may
exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited
to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage collection
and fees charged for city services; c) establishing personnel policies and
guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the city property.
Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution. (1980 Code §
3-717; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Form: Any resolution passed by the city council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
(1980 Code § 3-718; amd. 2002 Code)
      3.   Publication; Effective Date: Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect upon passage or at a later
date as the city council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (1980 Code § 3-
719; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Creating Offices; Filling Vacancies
1-6-2: Compensation
1-6-3: Bond Requirements
1-6-4: Oath Of Office
1-6-5: Official Neglect And Misconduct
1-6-6: City Recorder And City Treasurer
1-6-7: City Attorney
1-6-1: CREATING OFFICES; FILLING VACANCIES:
   A.   Offices Created By Council: The city council may create any office
deemed necessary for the government of the city and provide for filling
vacancies in elective and appointive offices. (1980 Code § 3-901; amd. 2002
Code)
   B.   Mayor To Appoint And Fill Vacancies: The mayor, with the advice and
consent of the city council, may appoint and fill vacancies in all offices
provided for by law or ordinance.
   C.   Continuation In Office: All appointed officers shall continue in office
until their successors are appointed and qualified. (1980 Code § 3-916; amd.
2002 Code)
1-6-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Specified: The salary of the officers and employees of the city shall
be paid in the amount and at such time as established by ordinance of the city
council, from time to time. (1980 Code § 3-818; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Benefits: In addition to the salary paid the officers and employees of
the city, they shall receive the following benefits:
      1.   The employees' share of the social security tax.
      2.   Health and accident insurance for themselves and their families on
such basis and cost to the employee or officer as the city council may from
time to time establish by resolution.
      3.   Vacation and sick leave on such basis as the city council may from
time to time establish by resolution.
      4.   Participation in the Utah state retirement program on such basis and
cost as the city council may from time to time establish by resolution.
   C.   Serving Two Or More Positions: Whenever any person serves in two (2) or
more positions either as officers or employees of this city, unless otherwise
specifically provided in the employment agreement, by ordinance or by
resolution, that person shall receive the salary or compensation of the office
or employment paying the greater amount.
   D.   Reimbursement For Travel Expenses: In addition to all other
compensation or salaries, any officer or employee of the city may receive,
following the submission to the city recorder of a claim, travel expenses and
per diem established by the Utah state department of finance for expense
actually incurred by the person for attending any meeting, conference, seminar
or training session, provided attendance shall have been approved by the city
council. (1980 Code § 3-818)
1-6-3: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Approval Of Bonds: The bonds of the council members shall be approved
by the mayor and the bond of the mayor shall be approved by the city council at
the first meeting of the city council in January following a city election.
(1980 Code § 3-822; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Premium Paid By City: The premium charged by a corporate surety for any
bond required by the city shall be paid by the city. (1980 Code § 3-823; amd.
2002 Code)
   C.   Additional Bonds: The city council may at any time require further and
additional bonds of any or all officers elected or appointed. All bonds given
by the officers, except as otherwise provided by law, shall be filed with the
city recorder, except that the bond of the city recorder shall be filed with
the city treasurer. (1980 Code § 3-825; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Bond Amounts: Before taking the oath of office and entering on the
duties of their respective office, city officials for which bonds are required
shall each give a bond with good and sufficient securities, payable to the
city, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their office
and the payment of all monies received by such officers according to Utah Code
Annotated section 51-7-15, of the state money management council rule 4, and
all other applicable law. (1980 Code § 3-819A; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   City Treasurer:
      1.   The city treasurer's bond, or the bond of any person who acts as
city treasurer, may be set by resolution or ordinance in any amount, not less
than that established by the state money management council. (1980 Code § 3-
821; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   The city treasurer's bond shall be superseded by any rule,
regulation or directive of the state money management council when such rule,
regulation or directive is binding on the city. (1980 Code § 3-819B)
   F.   Blanket Bond: The bond required in this section may be a blanket bond.
(1980 Code § 3-819D)
1-6-4: OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   Constitutional Oath Of Office: All officers, whether elected or
appointed, before entering on the duties of their respective offices shall
take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office. (1980 Code § 3-827;
amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Filing: The oath of office required under this section shall be
administered by any judge, notary public or by the city recorder. Elected
officials shall take their oath of office at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
first Monday in January following their election or as soon thereafter as is
practical. Appointed officers shall take their oath at any time before entering
on their duties. All oaths of office shall be filed with the city recorder.
(1980 Code § 3-828; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Acts Of Officials Not Voided: No official act of any city officer shall
be invalid for the reason that he failed to take the oath of office. (1980 Code
§ 3-829; amd. 2002 Code)
1-6-5: OFFICIAL NEGLECT AND MISCONDUCT:
In case any city officer shall at any time wilfully omit to perform any duty,
or wilfully and corruptly be guilty of oppression, malconduct, misfeasance or
malfeasance in office, the person is guilty of a class A misdemeanor 1 , shall
be removed from office and is not eligible for any city office thereafter.
(1980 Code § 3-826; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 76-3-204.
1-6-6: CITY RECORDER AND CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: On or before the first Monday in February following a city
election, the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall
appoint a qualified person to each of the offices of city recorder and city
treasurer.
   B.   Ex Officio Auditor: The city recorder is ex officio the city auditor
and shall perform the duties of that office. (1980 Code § 3-916; amd. 2002
Code)
1-6-7: CITY ATTORNEY:
The city attorney may prosecute violations of city ordinances and, under state
law, infractions and misdemeanors occurring within the boundaries of the city
and has the same powers in respect to the violations as are exercised by a
county attorney, including, but not limited to, granting immunity to witnesses.
The city attorney shall represent the interests of the state or the city in the
appeal of any matter prosecuted in any trial court by the city attorney. (1980
Code § 3-928; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Conduct
1-7-2: Primary Election; When Required
1-7-1: CONDUCT:
Election for mayor and council members shall be conducted according to the
municipal election section of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-404(1) and (2).
(2002 Code)
1-7-2: PRIMARY ELECTION; WHEN REQUIRED:
This section provides for the candidates for mayor and council members to be
nominated at a primary election if required. A primary election will be held
only when the number of candidates filing for an office exceeds twice the
number to be elected. The candidates nominated at the primary election, plus
candidates that were not required to run in the primary are to be placed on the
November ballot. (2002 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: Commission Established
2-1-3: Powers And Duties
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of the city council to establish a
local preservation commission to undertake specified historic preservation
duties, including survey and inventory, review of nominations to the national
register, preservation, education and advice and enforcement of local and state
preservation laws. (Ord. 84-1, 5-16-1984)
2-1-2: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby established an historic preservation
commission, which shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the city
council, each for a term of three (3) years; provided, that the terms of the
members of the first commission so appointed shall be such that the term of two
(2) members shall expire two (2) years after the date of their initial
appointment. Any vacancy occurring on the commission by reason of death,
resignation, removal or disqualification shall be promptly filled by the city
council for the unexpired term of such member. Any member may be removed for
cause by the city council upon receiving a written memorandum of the charges
and after a public hearing, if such public hearing is requested. In addition,
appointments to the commission shall be made and the commission itself shall
operate within the following guidelines and provisions.
   B.   Qualifications:
      1.   Members shall be appointed who have demonstrated an interest,
competence or knowledge in historic preservation.
      2.   To the extent available within the city, two (2) of the commission
members shall be professionals, as defined by the national park service
regulations, from the disciplines of history and architecture or architectural
history.
   C.   Chairperson Elected; Rules: The commission shall organize and elect a
chairperson and adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and other laws.
   D.   Meetings: Meetings of the commission shall be held at the call of the
chairperson, which shall be held not less than three (3) times each year and
shall conduct business in accordance with the open and public meetings laws of
the state of Utah. The commission shall keep written minutes of its
proceedings, and shall keep records of its official actions; all of which shall
be immediately filed in the office of the city recorder and made available for
public inspection.
   E.   Quorum: The concurring vote of three (3) members of the commission
shall be necessary in order for the commission to take any official action.
(Ord. 84-1, 5-16-1984)
2-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall have and perform the following duties:
   A.   Survey And Inventory Community Historic Resources: The historic
preservation commission shall conduct or cause to be conducted a survey of the
historic, architectural and archeological resources within the community. The
survey shall be compatible with the Utah inventory of historic and
archeological sites. Survey and inventory documents shall be maintained and
open to the public. The survey shall be updated at least every ten (10) years.
   B.   Review Proposed Nominations To National Register Of Historic Places:
The historic preservation commission shall review and comment to the state
historic preservation officer on all proposed national register nominations for
properties within the boundaries of the community. When the historic
preservation commission considers a national register nomination which is
normally evaluated by professionals in a specific discipline and that
discipline is not represented on the commission, the commission shall seek
expert advice in this area before rendering its decision.
   C.   Provide Advice And Information:
      1.   The historic preservation commission shall act in an advisory role
to other officials and departments of local government regarding the
identification and protection of local historic and archeological resources.
      2.   The historic preservation commission shall work toward the
continuing education of citizens regarding historic preservation and the
community's history.
   D.   Enforcement Of State Historic Preservation Laws: The commission shall
support the enforcement of all state laws relating to historic preservation.
These include, but are not limited to: Utah Code Annotated section 17A-3-1301
et seq., the historic district act; Utah Code Annotated section 9-8-301 et
seq., regarding the protection of Utah antiquities; and Utah Code Annotated
section 9-8-404, regarding notification of the state historic preservation
office of any known proposed action which will destroy or affect a site,
building or object owned by the state and included on or eligible for the state
or national registers. (Ord. 84-1, 5-16-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CUB RIVER SPORTS COMPLEX BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Authority
2-2-2: Purpose
2-2-3: Board Created
2-2-4: Powers
2-2-5: Duties
2-2-6: Unlawful Activities
2-2-7: Enforceability
2-2-8: Penalty
2-2-1: AUTHORITY:
The mayor and city recorder are hereby authorized to execute and deliver the
original of the referenced CRSC interlocal agreement for and in behalf of
Lewiston City, subject to the approval, execution and delivery of the same by
Richmond City. (Ord., 12-6-1995)
2-2-2: PURPOSE:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of the Lewiston city council to join
with the Richmond city council in establishing an interlocal CRSC board to
undertake the day to day management and control of the CRSC which is jointly
owned by both cities and, further, to provide for the formulation of uniform
standards and regulations relating to the CRSC. (Ord., 12-6-1995)
2-2-3: BOARD CREATED:
   A.   Membership: There is hereby created an interlocal CRSC board consisting
of five (5) members, with two (2) members being appointed by Richmond City, two
(2) members being appointed by Lewiston City, and the fifth member being
selected by a majority vote (3 votes minimum required) of the four (4)
municipal members, from the unincorporated Cove area. The fifth member shall
also be approved by both city councils. Each municipal member shall be a
citizen of the city appointing him or her and shall be appointed by the mayor
of such municipality with the advice and consent of the municipal council. A
member of the municipal council may be appointed. The Cove area board member
shall be presented to both city councils and take office upon approval by the
councils. The board shall continue in existence until this ordinance be
repealed or revoked by one of the said municipalities or the expiration or
revocation of said interlocal agreement, whichever occurs first.
   B.   Appointment: The members of the board shall be appointed for terms of
five (5) years, with the exception of the initial board terms, which shall be
staggered so that one term expires every year. To meet this requirement, it
shall be provided that the initial terms for the board members from Richmond
City shall be for one and three (3) years respectively, the initial terms for
the board members from Lewiston City shall be for two (2) and four (4) years
respectively, and the initial term of the board member from the Cove area shall
be five (5) years. Each board member shall hold office until his successor is
appointed; provided, however, that any vacancy occurring on said board by
reason of death, resignation, removal or disqualification shall be promptly
filled by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the municipal council of
the municipality whose position on the board is vacated, or by the board, with
the advice and consent of both councils, for the unexpired term of the Cove
area member. Members of said board shall serve without compensation except for
the reimbursement of reasonable expenses. (Ord., 12-6-1995)
2-2-4: POWERS:
Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the interlocal CRSC board shall
operate within the following guidelines and provisions:
   A.   Chairperson; Rules: The board shall organize and elect a chairperson
and adopt rules for its meetings and procedure in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and other applicable laws.
   B.   Meetings: Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the
chairperson, which shall be held not less than two (2) times each year and
shall be conducted in accordance with the open and public meetings laws of the
state. (Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-1 et seq., as amended.) The board
shall keep written minutes of its proceedings, and shall keep records of its
official actions; all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
city recorder for each municipality and made available for public inspection.
   C.   Voting; Quorum: The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board
shall be necessary in order for the board to take any official action, and the
presence of three (3) members is required in order to establish a quorum for
the conduct of board business; provided, that less than a quorum can adjourn a
meeting of the board members concurring, at least one shall be from Richmond
City and at least one shall be from Lewiston City, except as otherwise provided
in this subsection and subsection D of this section. If either or both board
members, whether regular or temporary, from Richmond City or Lewiston City,
respectively, are absent from a board meeting, then the city appointing the
board member or members, or the temporary member or members, as specified in
subsection D of this section, forfeits its right to have at least one
concurring vote from that city. Two (2) board members, whether regular members,
temporary members, or one regular member and one temporary member must be
present at a board meeting in order for the appointing city to have the right
to cast a concurring vote relating to any official board action. This does not
alter the requirement that a concurring vote of three (3) members of the board
shall be necessary in order for the board to take any official action, nor the
requirement that the presence of three (3) members are required in order to
establish a quorum of the board. For clarification, if both cities have two (2)
members of the board present at a board meeting, whether regular members,
temporary members or one of each, then the concurring vote of at least one
member from each of the cities shall be necessary for official action of the
board to be taken. If either city shall have less than both board members
present, whether regular or temporary, then the concurring vote of such city
board member shall not be required in order for the board to take any official
action.
   D.   Temporary Appointments: If either or both board members from Richmond
City are unable to attend a CRSC board meeting, the mayor of Richmond may
appoint one or two (2) temporary members, as the case may be, to attend a CRSC
board meeting with full authority to act in the place of the absent member or
members and with full voting rights. If either or both board members from
Lewiston City are unable to attend a CRSC board meeting, the mayor of Lewiston
may appoint one or two (2) temporary members, as the case may be, to attend a
CRSC board meeting with full authority to act in the place of the absent member
or members and with full voting rights. The chairperson of the board shall
ascertain, prior to any board meeting, if a board member or members are going
to be absent from the board meeting. If the chairperson determines that a board
member or members from either or both cities is going to be absent from the
meeting, the chairperson shall give the appropriate mayor or mayors at least
forty eight (48) hours' notice so that a temporary member or members may be
appointed, as necessary. The "notice" required by this subsection shall be
considered delivered when given verbally to the mayor, or in the absence of the
mayor, when given verbally to the city recorder, and confirmed in a writing
delivered to the city office of the city to which the notice is directed.
(Ord., 12-6-1995)
2-2-5: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the board to oversee and supervise the enforcement of
this chapter; to counsel with both city councils and designated city officials
and employees concerning such regulations and guidelines that it shall deem
appropriate and necessary for the proper control, use, maintenance, development
and management of the CRSC and then formulate and adopt the same, to adopt fair
and equitable user fees; to take control of the CRSC and to otherwise take such
actions as are necessary in order to develop, protect and preserve it for the
purposes herein set forth. All regulations, guidelines and user fees, as
adopted by the board, shall be subject to approval by both city councils,
before becoming effective. (Ord., 12-6-1995)
2-2-6: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to use the CRSC except in
accordance with the regulations and guidelines established pursuant to section
2-2-5 of this chapter. (Ord., 12-6-1995)
2-2-7: ENFORCEABILITY:
Both of the municipalities named herein shall adopt and pass this ordinance
during a regular meeting of its municipal council and shall evidence such
adoption by properly executing and certifying separate, identical copies of the
same. Such action shall evidence each municipality's assent to, approval of and
agreement to actively pursue the implementation of the terms and provisions
hereof, and of the interlocal agreement attached to the ordinance codified
herein. In addition, each municipality shall budget for and pay its pro rata
share of all expenses, if any, associated with the CRSC, as provided in said
agreement, such expenses to be shared equally by both of the municipalities.
(Ord., 12-6-1995)
2-2-8: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
punishable as a class C misdemeanor as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation of this chapter shall be considered and
constitute a separate offense, and each day a violation is allowed to continue
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord., 12-6-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Civil Remedy: Any violation of any provision of this chapter may be
restrained by action of one of the municipal councils in the name of one or
both of said municipalities. In the event this form of relief is sought, the
party restrained shall, in addition to any other relief granted, be liable for
the municipalities' costs of court and reasonable attorney fees incurred
thereby, which costs and fees shall be assessed by the court as a civil
judgment.
   C.   Cumulative Remedies: The foregoing remedies are to be considered
cumulative and in addition to any others the said municipalities may have by
law or otherwise, and the election of one is not to be considered a waiver of
the others. (Ord., 12-6-1995)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Assessor And Collector
3-1-3: Business License Required; Penalty
3-1-4: Application For License
3-1-5: Fee For License
3-1-6: Payment Dates
3-1-7: Certificate Of License
3-1-8: Transfer Of License Prohibited
3-1-9: Branch Establishments
3-1-10: Joint Business Licenses
3-1-11: Reciprocal Recognition; Delivery Of Goods
3-1-12: Exemptions To License
3-1-13: Revocation Or Denial Of License
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title:
BUSINESS: Includes all activities engaged in within the city carried on for the
purpose of gain or economic profit, except that the acts of employees rendering
service to employers shall not be included in the term business, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
EACH SEPARATE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate establishment or place of
operation, whether or not operating under the same name, within the city,
including a home or other place of lodging if the same is held out by
advertisements, listings or otherwise as the establishment or place of
operation of a person engaging in the business of selling tangible, personal
property at either retail or wholesale, or both, in the city.
EMPLOYEE: The operator or manager of a place of business and any persons
employed in the operation of said place of business in any capacity and also
any salesperson, agent or independent contractor engaged in the operation of
the place of business in any capacity.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Includes, but is not limited to, the sale of tangible
personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or
property and the rendering of personal services for others for a consideration
by persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business, occupation or
other calling, except the rendering of personal services by an employee to his
employer under any contract of personal employment.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate location maintained or operated by the
licensee within the city from which business activity is conducted or
transacted.
WHOLESALE: A sale of tangible personal property by wholesalers to retail
merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers for resale, and does not
include a sale by wholesalers or retailers to users or consumers not for
resale, except as otherwise specified.
WHOLESALER: A person doing a regularly organized wholesale or jobbing business
and selling to retail merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers, for the
purpose of resale. (1980 Code § 9-111; amd. 2002 Code)
3-1-2: LICENSE ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR:
The city recorder is designated and appointed as ex officio assessor of license
fees for the city. Upon receipt of any application for a license, the city
recorder shall assess the amount due thereon and shall collect all license fees
based upon the rate established by resolution. He shall enforce all provisions
of this title, and shall cause to be filed complaints against all persons
violating any of the provisions of this title. (1980 Code § 9-113; amd. 2002
Code)
3-1-3: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; PENALTY:
It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to transact, engage in or carry on any
business, trade, profession, calling or to operate a vending, pinball or coin
operated machine without first receiving the class or type of license required
by the city. (1980 Code § 9-112; amd. 2002 Code)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: All applications for license shall include:
      1.   The name of the person desiring a license.
      2.   The kind of license desired, stating the business, calling, trade or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on.
      3.   The class of license desired, if such licenses are divided into
classes.
      4.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on, giving the street number if the business calling, trade or
profession is to be carried on in any building or enclosure having such number.
      5.   The period of time for which such license is desired to be issued.
   B.   Coin Operated Machine Or Device: In the event that the license
application relates to a coin operated machine or device, the application shall
identify the machine or device to which it applies and the location thereof.
(1980 Code § 9-116)
3-1-5: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Fee: The business, location, trade, calling or profession of every
person engaged in a business in this city shall pay an annual business license
fee in such amount as established by resolution of the city council. (1980 Code
§ 9-211; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Interstate Commerce: None of the license fees provided for by this
section shall be applied as to occasion an undue burden on interstate commerce.
In any case, where a license fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for
license to place an undue burden upon such commerce, he may apply to the
license assessor and collector for an adjustment of the fee so that it shall
not be discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair as to such commerce. Such
application may be made before, at or within six (6) months after payment of
the prescribed license fee. The applicant shall, by affidavit and supporting
testimony, show his method of business and the gross volume or estimated gross
volume of business and such other information as the license assessor and
collector may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of such
undue burden on such commerce. The license assessor and collector shall then
conduct an investigation, comparing applicant's business with other businesses
of like nature and shall make findings of fact from which he shall determine
whether the fee fixed by this section is discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair
as to applicant's business and shall recommend to the city council a license
fee for the applicant in an amount that is nondiscriminatory, reasonable and
fair, and if the city council is satisfied that such license fee is the amount
that the applicant should pay, it shall fix the license fee in such amount. If
the regular license fee has already been paid, the city council shall order a
refund of the amount over and above the fee fixed by the city council. In
fixing the fee to be charged, the license assessor and collector shall have the
power to base the fee upon a percentage of gross sales, or employees, or may
use any other method which will assure that the fee assessed shall be uniform
with that assessed on businesses of like nature. (1980 Code § 9-125; amd. 2002
Code)
3-1-6: PAYMENT DATES:
All license fees shall be due and payable as follows, except as may be
otherwise provided. (1980 Code § 9-114; amd. 2002 Code)
   A.   Payable: Annual fees shall be payable before each calendar year, in
advance. The annual license shall date from January 1 of each year and shall
expire on December 31 of each year.
   B.   Due: Annual fees shall be due on January 1 of each calendar year and
shall become delinquent if not paid by February 1 of each year.
   C.   Issued After July 1: One-half (1/2) of the annual fee shall be payable
for all licenses issued by the city pursuant to applications made after July 1
of each year, and licenses issued after July 1 shall expire on January 1 of the
year following. Payment shall be due upon the date of application approval.
(1980 Code § 9-114)
   D.   Penalty For Late Payment: If any license fee is not paid within thirty
(30) days of the due date, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of such
license fee shall be added to the original amount thereof. No license shall be
issued until all penalties legally assessed have been paid in full. (1980 Code
§ 9-115)
3-1-7: CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: All certificates of license shall be signed by the mayor,
attested by the city recorder, and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name: The name of the person to whom such certificate has been
issued.
      2.   Amount: The amount paid.
      3.   Type: The type of license and the class of such license, if licenses
are divided into classes.
      4.   Term: The term of the license with the commencing date and the date
of its expiration.
      5.   Location: The place where such business, calling, trade or
profession is to be conducted. (1980 Code § 9-117)
   B.   Display:
      1.   Required: Every certificate of license issued under this chapter
shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall of the
building, room or office of the place of business so that the same may be
easily seen. When such certificate of license has expired, it shall be removed
by the licensee from such place in which it has been posted, and no certificate
of license which is not in force and effect shall be permitted to remain posted
upon the wall or any part of any room within the place of business. If the
licensee's business is such that a license cannot be displayed due to the
transient or mobile nature of the business, then the licensee shall carry the
license on his person, ready to be shown upon request by an authorized officer
during all such time or times while the licensee is engaged in or pursuing the
business for which a license is granted.
      2.   Coin Operated Machine: In the event the license is for a coin
operated machine or device, the certificate shall be attached or displayed in
the immediate vicinity of the machine for which it has been issued. (1980 Code
§ 9-118)
3-1-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No license granted or issued under any ordinance of the city shall be assigned
or transferred to any other person. It shall not be deemed to authorize any
person other than therein named to do business or to authorize any other
business, calling, trade or profession than is therein named, unless by
permission of the city council. (1980 Code § 9-119)
3-1-9: BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate license must be obtained for each separate place of business in the
city and each license shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the
business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner designated in such
license; provided, that warehouses and distributing places used in connection
with or incident to a business licensed under this chapter shall not be deemed
to be separate places of business or branch establishments. (1980 Code § 9-121)
3-1-10: JOINT BUSINESS LICENSES:
Whenever any person is engaged in two (2) or more businesses at the same
location within the city, such person shall not be required to obtain separate
licenses for conducting each of such businesses, but shall be issued one
license which shall specify on its face all such businesses. The license fee to
be paid shall be computed at the highest license fee applicable to any of the
businesses being conducted at such location. The sale of beer or any other
product or service requiring an additional license shall be subject to such
additional licensing requirement. Where two (2) or more persons conduct
separate businesses at the same location, each such person shall obtain a
license for such business and pay the required license fee for such business.
(1980 Code § 9-122; amd. 2002 Code)
3-1-11: RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION; DELIVERY OF GOODS:
   A.   Exceptions: No license shall be required for operation of any vehicle
or equipment in the city when:
      1.   Such vehicle is merely passing through the city.
      2.   Such vehicle is used exclusively in intercity or interstate
commerce.
   B.   Delivery Of Property: No license shall be required by this chapter of
any person whose only business activity in the city is the mere delivery in the
city of property sold by him at a regular place of business maintained by him
outside the city where:
      1.   Such person's business is at the time of such delivery licensed by
the Utah municipality or county in which such place of business is situated;
and
      2.   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of the
city making deliveries within its jurisdiction the same privileges, upon
substantially the same terms, as are granted by this section; and
      3.   Neither the property delivered nor any of the facilities by which it
was manufactured, produced or processed are subject to inspection by authority
of the city for compliance with health or sanitary standards prescribed by the
city; and
      4.   The truck or other conveyance by which such delivery is made
prominently displays at all times a license plate or symbol issued by the said
licensing authority to evidence such business license. Such plate or symbol
shall identify the licensing authority by which it is issued, shall indicate
that it evidences a license issued thereby, and shall specify the year or term
for which it is effective.
   C.   Certification Of Section: The city recorder shall, at the request of
any person, certify a copy of this section to any municipality or county of the
state to which a copy has not previously been certified. (1980 Code § 9-123)
3-1-12: EXEMPTIONS TO LICENSE:
   A.   Tax Exempt Businesses: No license fee shall be imposed under section
3-1-5 of this chapter on any person engaged in business for solely religious,
charitable, eleemosynary or other types of strictly nonprofit purpose which is
tax exempt in such activities under the laws of the United States and the
state, nor shall any license fee be imposed on any person engaged in a business
specifically exempted from municipal taxation and fees by the laws of the
United States or the state; nor shall any license fee be imposed upon any
person not maintaining a place of business within the city who has paid a like
or similar license tax or fee to some other taxing unit within the state and
which taxing unit exempts from its license tax or fee, by reciprocal agreement
or otherwise, businesses domiciled in the city and doing business in such
taxing unit.
   B.   Reciprocal Agreements With Other Agencies: The license assessor and
collector may, with approval of the city council, enter into reciprocal
agreements with the proper officials of other taxing units, as may be deemed
equitable and proper in effecting the exemption provided for in subsection A of
this section. (1980 Code § 9-124)
3-1-13: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Failure To Comply; Unlawful Activities: Unless otherwise provided, any
license issued pursuant to the provisions of this code or of any ordinance of
the city may be revoked and any application denied by the city council because
of: (1980 Code § 9-120; amd. 2002 Code)
      1.   The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the
conditions and requirements of this code or any ordinance of the city.
      2.   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where the
business is conducted.
   B.   Notice To Licensee: Prior to the revocation of a license or denial of
an application to renew business license, the licensee or applicant shall be
given a notice which shall state in substance that the city council intends to
revoke the business license or deny the application to renew, together with the
reason or reasons therefor, at a regular or special meeting of the city council
(which shall be at least 10 days and not more than 30 days from the date notice
is sent), and that the licensee or applicant has a right to appear, to be
represented by counsel, to hear the evidence against him, to cross examine
witnesses and to present evidence as to why the license should not be revoked
or the application denied.
   C.   Not Applicable To Businesses Not Previously Licensed: The preceding
subsection shall not apply to applications for licenses for businesses which
have not previously been licensed by the city, and such applicants need only be
informed that their application has been denied. (1980 Code § 9-120)
   D.   Administrative Hearing: The provisions of this section which provide
for a hearing shall be in lieu of any hearing rights otherwise granted by
section
1-4-3 of this code. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Application For License
3-2-4: Qualifications Of Licensee
3-2-5: Fee For License
3-2-6: Bond Required
3-2-7: Classifications And Privileges
3-2-8: District Health Department Permit
3-2-9: Transfer Of License
3-2-10: Inspection Of Premises
3-2-11: Separate License; Display Required
3-2-12: Alcohol Training And Education
3-2-13: Restrictions
3-2-14: Renewal Of License
3-2-15: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-16: Conflicting Provisions
3-2-17: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings specified in
the state alcoholic beverage control act 1 , unless a different meaning is
clearly evident. (1980 Code § 9-412; amd. Ord. 97-1, 10-15-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 32A-1-105.
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of the sale of
beer at retail, in bottles or draft, without first having procured a license
therefor from the city council and paid the license fee required by this
chapter. (1980 Code § 9-411A; amd. 2002 Code)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Verification; Filing: All applications for licenses authorized by this
chapter shall be verified and filed with the city recorder. The application
must state the applicant's name in full and that he understands and has read
and complied with the requirements and possesses the qualifications specified
in the alcoholic beverage control act and this chapter. If the applicant is a
copartnership, the names and addresses of all partners and if a corporation,
the names and addresses of all officers and directors, must be stated.
   B.   Applicant Subscription: The application must be subscribed by the
applicant, who shall state under oath that the facts therein contained are
true. (1980 Code § 9-417; amd. Ord. 97-1, 10-15-1997)
   C.   Referral To Law Enforcement: All applications filed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter shall be referred to city law enforcement
officials for inspection and report. The city law enforcement officials shall,
when possible, within thirty (30) days after receiving such application, make
report to the city council of the general reputation and character of the
persons who habitually frequent such place, the nature and kind of business
conducted at such place by the applicant or by any other persons or by the
applicant at any other place; whether the place is or has been conducted in a
lawful, quiet and orderly manner; the nature and kind of entertainment, if any,
at such place; whether gambling is or has been permitted on the premises or by
the applicant at any other place; and the proximity of such premises to any
school or church. The city law enforcement officials shall also add to such
report their recommendation as to whether or not the application should be
granted. (1980 Code § 4-418; amd. 2002 Code)
3-2-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
No license shall be granted to any retailer to sell beer or to any brewer or
wholesaler, unless he shall be of good moral character, over the age of twenty
one (21) years, and a citizen of the United States, or to anyone who has been
convicted of a felony or of any violation of any law of the state or provision
of the ordinances of the city relating to intoxicating liquors, or of keeping a
gambling or disorderly house, or who has pleaded guilty to or has forfeited his
bail on a charge of having committed a felony or of having violated any such
law or ordinance, or to any partnership, any member of which lacks any of the
qualifications set forth in this chapter or to any corporation of which lacks
any of such qualifications. (1980 Code § 9-420; amd. 2002 Code)
3-2-5: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required: Applications provided for in this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fees as established by resolution of the city council. The
fee shall be returned to the applicant if the application is denied. (1980 Code
§ 9-415; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Additional Fee: In addition to any other business license fee which any
person or place of business may be required to pay, there is hereby levied upon
the business location of every person engaged in the sale or other dispensing
of beer, an annual license fee in such amount as established by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 97-1, 10-15-1997; amd. 2002 Code)
3-2-6: BOND REQUIRED:
No license required by this chapter shall be granted by the city council until
the applicant shall have filed with the city recorder a bond in the penal sum
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), as required by Utah Code Annotated section
32A-10-205, as amended. The bond shall be made in favor of the city, shall be
required for each license, regardless of which class to which it relates, and
shall be conditioned upon the licensee's faithful compliance with this section,
in addition to the compliance required by said section of the state code. (Ord.
97-1, 10-15-1997)
3-2-7: CLASSIFICATIONS AND PRIVILEGES:
Retail licenses issued hereunder shall be of the following three (3) kinds and
shall carry the following privileges and be known as class A, class B, class C
and seasonal licenses:
   A.   Class A: Class A retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
beer on the premises licensed in original containers for consumption off the
premises in accordance with the Utah alcoholic beverage control act and the
ordinances of the city.
   B.   Class B: Class B retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
beer in the original containers on the premises for consumption on or off the
premises in accordance with the Utah alcoholic beverage control act and the
ordinances of the city.
   C.   Class C: Class C licenses for retail shall entitle the licensee to sell
draft beer for consumption on the premises and to sell beer in accordance with
the Utah alcoholic beverage control act and the ordinances of the city.
   D.   Seasonal: Seasonal licenses of any class may be issued for a period of
time not to exceed one year, which period shall be determined by the city
council. (1980 Code § 9-413; amd. Ord. 97-1, 10-15-1997)
3-2-8: DISTRICT HEALTH DEPARTMENT PERMIT:
No license under this chapter shall be issued until the applicant therefor
shall have first procured from the district health department a permit which
shall show that the premises to be licensed are in a sanitary condition and
that the equipment used in the storage, distribution or sale of beer complies
with all the health regulations of the city and of the state. (1980 Code § 9-
422; amd. 2002 Code)
3-2-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable, and if
revoked by the city council, the fee paid by the licensee to the city for the
license shall be forfeited to the city. (1980 Code § 9-423)
3-2-10: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
   A.   Authority: All licensed premises shall be subject to inspection by any
officer, agent or peace officer of the city or the state alcoholic beverage
control commission, or the state board of health, and every licensee shall, at
the request of the state board of health, furnish to it samples of beer which
he shall have for sale. (1980 Code § 9-426; amd. Ord. 97-1, 10-15-1997)
   B.   Revocation: Any license granted pursuant to this chapter may be revoked
on a finding by the city council that the licensee has had ten (10) days' or
more notice from the state board of health that the licensee is violating one
or more health ordinances, rules or regulations of the city or of the utah
division of health and has failed to comply with such health ordinance, rule or
regulation.
   C.   Close Of Business: The city council may direct city law enforcement
officials to close down any business licensed under this chapter where the
state board of health has determined that continued operation of the business
presents an imminent danger to the health of the community or persons who may
eat or drink at the business. (1980 Code § 9-426; amd. 2002 Code)
3-2-11: SEPARATE LICENSE; DISPLAY REQUIRED:
A separate license shall be required for each place of sale and the license
shall at all times be conspicuously displayed in the place to which it shall
refer or for which it shall be issued. All licenses shall comply with the Utah
alcoholic beverage control act and the regulations of the state alcoholic
beverage control commission. (1980 Code § 411C; amd. Ord. 97-1, 10-15-1997)
3-2-12: ALCOHOL TRAINING AND EDUCATION:
   A.   Required: No person shall be granted a license to operate or maintain a
trade, profession or calling, the transaction or carrying on of which requires
a license, within the city, if such person operates an establishment which as
part of its business serves "alcoholic beverages", as defined in Utah Code
Annotated section 32A-1-105(2), to the public for consumption on the premises,
unless that person shall show by certificate granted by the Utah department of
alcoholic beverage control, or by adequate proof of the existence of such
certificate, that each employee of the business engaging in the serving,
selling or furnishing of such alcohol on the premises has completed the alcohol
training and education seminar, as required in Utah Code Annotated section 62A-
8-403.
   B.   New Employees: Every new employee hired after the licensee has been
licensed in compliance with subsection A of this section who is required to
complete this seminar, shall complete the seminar within six (6) months of
commencing employment. Violation of this section will result in revocation of
the license granted under this chapter unless compliance with this section is
completed within two (2) months of the time that licensee first became aware
that such violation occurred. (2002 Code)
3-2-13: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Sales: It is unlawful for any person to sell beer at any public dance
or to any person intoxicated, or under the influence of any intoxicating
beverage. It is unlawful for any person to sell beer in any dance hall or
theater, and a license to sell beer shall not be granted to any person to sell
beer in any business or premises where gasoline for the use in motor vehicles
is sold.
   B.   Distance To Specific Places: No license shall be granted to sell beer
in any dance hall, theater, or within fifty (50) yards of any church or within
two hundred (200) yards of any school.
   C.   Sales To Minors; Unlicensed Consumption: It shall be unlawful to sell
beer to any person under the age of twenty one (21), or to sell beer for
consumption on the premises unless so licensed, or to permit the drinking of
liquor on such premises. (1980 Code § 9-4-24)
   D.   Hours: It shall be unlawful to sell or otherwise furnish or dispose of
beer, or allow it to be drunk or consumed on the premises, or to allow beer out
of original containers to remain on the licensed premises, whether or not open
to the public, after the closing hour of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M., and before ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. of any day.
   E.   Removal Of Patrons: Any person having a class B or C beer license, or
his agents or employees, shall remove or cause to be removed from the licensed
premises all patrons, customers or individuals not employed on the premises by
the time stated in subsection D of this section.
   F.   Number Of Employees Permitted After Closing: It shall be unlawful for
any person having a class B or C beer license, or for his agents or employees,
to permit any patron, customer or individual not employed on the premises to
remain on such premises after the closing time above provided; provided,
however, no licensed premises may employ more than two (2) persons on the
premises after the closing hour without the permission of city law enforcement
officials or the mayor.
   G.   Illumination; Advertising: Licensed premises shall be kept brightly
illuminated at all times while it is occupied or open for business, and no
booth or kind of stall shall be maintained unless all tables, chairs and
occupants are kept open to full view from the main floor and the entrance of
such licensed premises. It shall be unlawful to advertise the sale of beer,
except under such regulations as are made by the alcoholic beverage control
commission of Utah; provided, that a simple designation of the fact that beer
is sold under city license may be placed in or upon the window or front of the
licensed premises.
   H.   Manner Of Sales: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer
except in the manner for which he has been so licensed pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   I.   Nuisances: It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain a "nuisance".
   J.   Number Of Licensed Businesses Permitted: The total number of businesses
licensed to sell beer in the city shall not exceed two (2); provided, that this
chapter shall not operate to reduce the number of businesses now licensed to
sell beer whether issued by this city or by the county if such business is
annexed, nor shall it affect reapplications for such licenses. (1980 Code § 9-
424; amd. 2002 Code)
   K.   Sunday Sales Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person having a
license for the sale of beer to sell, barter, distribute, give away, exchange,
dispense or serve beer on the first day of the week commonly known as Sunday.
(1980 Code § 9-425)
   L.   Lawful Purchase: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to purchase or
acquire or to have or possess for the purpose of sale or distribution, any beer
except that which he shall have lawfully purchased from a brewer or wholesaler
licensed under the provisions of the Utah alcoholic beverage control act. (1980
Code § 9-416; amd. Ord. 97-1, 10-15-1997; 2002 Code)
   M.   Sales After Revocation Of License: It shall be unlawful for any person
to sell beer after the revocation of the license issued pursuant to this
chapter. (1980 Code § 9-411B; amd. 2002 Code)
3-2-14: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
All applications for renewal licenses filed by the holders of existing licenses
shall be filed with the city recorder at least thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration date of the then issued license. Any person who fails to file such
application within the time limit shall close his licensed premises on the
expiration date of the then issued license and shall keep the premises closed
for any and all business for the sale of beer until the date his new license is
issued by the city council. (1980 Code § 9-419)
3-2-15: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority: The city council may, after a hearing, revoke or suspend any
beer license on a finding by it that the licensee or his officers, agents or
employees have violated any provision of this chapter or any ordinance of the
city, whether now or hereafter enacted, which in any way relates to the
operation of the business or the safety of the public.
   B.   Hearing: A hearing may be required by any person:
      1.   That is denied or refused a beer license by any officer, agent or
employee of the city.
      2.   Whose beer license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited from
that for which it was first issued.
   C.   Request For Hearing: The request for hearing must be made in writing to
the mayor or city recorder and made within thirty (30) days following the date
notice denying, refusing, removing, qualifying, restricting or revoking the
beer license is mailed by the city to the applicant or license holder at his
address as it appears on the application or license.
   D.   Time And Place; Witnesses; Decision: Following receipt of a request for
hearing, the city council shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the
time and place the hearing is to be held. At the hearing, the aggrieved party
shall have the right to hear and examine any witnesses the city may produce to
support its decision and to present his own evidence in support of its
contention. The city council shall, within ten (10) days following the
conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who requested the
hearing of the decision of the city council.
   E.   Limitations Of Hearing: This section shall not be construed so as to
afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the city council, nor
shall the hearing provided in this section apply to any criminal complaint or
proceeding. (1980 Code § 9-427)
3-2-16: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
It is hereby provided that in each instance where a provision of this chapter
conflicts with or is different than the provisions of the Utah alcoholic
beverage control act, the provisions of said act shall control. (Ord. 97-1, 10-
15-1997)
3-2-17: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A.  SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Title
3-3A-2: Purpose
3-3A-3: Tax Imposed
3-3A-4: Penalty
3-3A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as THE SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCEOF LEWISTON.
(Ord. 90-1, 1990)
3-3A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Authorization Of Tax: The forty eighth session of the Utah legislature
authorized municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances
imposing a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   Tax Established: It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales
and use tax of the city to the requirements of the sales and use tax act, Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (Ord. 90-1, 1990)
3-3A-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the city at the rate of one percent
(1%).
      2.   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other 
consumption in the city of tangible personal property from any retailer on or
after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property.
      3.   For the purpose of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out of state designation. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by the
state tax commission. "Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any
county or municipality where public utilities are rendered, but the place of
sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to the city
shall be as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an appropriate
formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   B.   Adoption Of State Codes; Provisions:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales tax and use tax act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, and in
force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales
taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, are hereby adopted
and made a part of this article as though fully set forth herein.
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this city shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in subsection B1 of
this section shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city
for the word "state" when the word is used as part of the title of the state
tax commission, or of the constitution of the state, nor shall the name of the
city be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of
that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the state tax
commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article.
      3.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
      4.   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by
which the tax is measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
         b.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sales transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord.
90-1, 1990)
3-3A-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 90-1, 1990; amd. 2002 Code)
ARTICLE B.  TRANSIT SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Establishment Of Tax
3-3B-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF TAX:
In addition to any other tax authorized by the laws of the state of Utah and/or
of this municipality, there hereby is established, approved, and levied a sales
and use tax upon the retail sales, as defined and included in Utah Code
Annotated subsection 59-12-103(1) and as restricted in Utah Code Annotated
subsection 59-12-501(1)(a)(ii), of one-fourth of one percent (0.25%), the same
to be used in connection with the financing of a public transportation system
for the city of Lewiston. (Ord. 08-03, 1-15-2008)
CHAPTER 4
SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Application For License
3-4-4: Investigation And Issuance Of License
3-4-5: Fees
3-4-6: Licenses And Badges
3-4-7: Notice Of Revocation Hearing
3-4-8: Revocation After Hearing
3-4-9: Appeal
3-4-10: Additional Requirements
3-4-11: Exceptions
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CANVASSER OR SOLICITOR: Any individual whether or not a resident of the city,
traveling either by foot, wagon, motor vehicle or other type of conveyance from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise,
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services
to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale, or whether
he is collecting advance payments on such sales; provided, that such definition
shall include any person who, for himself, or for another person, firm or
corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent,
railroad boxcar, hotel or motel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any
other place within the city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and
taking orders for future delivery.
PEDDLER: Shall include any person, whether or not a resident of the city
traveling by foot, wagon, motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying,
conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables,
fruits, garden truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the
same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who,
without traveling from place to place, shall see or offer the same for sale
from a wagon, motor vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance; and
further provided, that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction
makes deliveries to purchasers as part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a peddler subject to the provisions
of this chapter. The word "peddler" shall include the words "hawker" and
"huckster".
TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT OR ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person, firm or
corporation, whether as owner, agent, cosignee or employee, whether or not a
resident of the city, who engages in a temporary business of selling and
delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the city, and who in furtherance
of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, public room in any hotel, motel, lodging house,
apartment, shop or any street, alley, or other place within the city, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction. The person, firm or corporation so engaged shall not be
relieved from complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of
associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer,
or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or
in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer. (1980 Code §
9-452; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for:
   A.   Transient Merchant, Itinerant Merchant Or Vendor: A transient merchant,
itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor to engage in such business without first
obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Peddler: Any person to engage in the business of peddler without first
obtaining a license therefor as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Solicitor Or Canvasser: Any solicitor or canvasser to engage in such
business without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. (1980 Code § 9-451; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applicants for licenses under this chapter shall file a sworn application in
writing signed by the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a
partnership, and by the president if a corporation, or by an agent, including a
state or regional agent, with the city recorder, which shall give the following
information:
   A.   The name of the applicant and if the applicant is an employee or agent
of a corporation, the name of the corporation.
   B.   The address of the applicant and if the applicant is an agent or
employee of a corporation, the address of the corporation.
   C.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold and from whom or where the applicant obtains the goods to be sold.
   D.   If the applicant is employed by or an agent of another person, the name
and permanent address of such other person.
   E.   The length of time for which the applicant desires to engage in
business within the city.
   F.   The places within the city where the applicant proposes to carry on his
or her business.
   G.   A list of the other municipalities in which the applicant has engaged
in business within the six (6) month period preceding the date of the
application.
   H.   A photograph of the applicant, taken within six (6) months immediately
prior to the date of filing the application, which photograph shall be two
inches by two inches (2" x 2"), showing the head and shoulders of the applicant
in a clear and distinguishing manner.
   I.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant, or any of his employers
have been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal
ordinance, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed
therefor.
   J.   If the applicant desires to sell fresh vegetables, fruits, meats or
other foodstuffs, a statement by a reputable physician of the state, dated not
more than ten (10) days prior to submission of the application, certifying the
applicant to be free of infectious, contagious or communicable diseases.
   K.   If the applicant is employed by another person, documents showing that
the person for which the applicant proposes to do business is authorized to do
business within the state. (1980 Code § 9-453; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4-4: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Referral To Law Enforcement: Upon receiving the application, the city
recorder shall refer it to the city's law enforcement officials who shall cause
such investigation of the applicant's business and moral character to be made
as it deems reasonable and necessary for the protection of the public good.
   B.   Unsatisfactory Result Of Investigation: If, as a result of the
investigation, the applicant's character or business responsibility is found to
be unsatisfactory, the city's law enforcement officials shall endorse such upon
the application, together with a statement of its reasons therefor, and return
the application to the city recorder who shall notify the applicant that his
application has been disapproved and that no license will be issued.
   C.   Satisfactory Result Of Investigation: If, as a result of such
investigation, the character and business responsibility of the applicant is
found to be satisfactory, the city's law enforcement officials shall endorse
such upon the application and return it to the city recorder who shall, upon
payment of the prescribed license fee, issue a license. Such license shall
contain the signature of the issuing officer and shall show the name, address
and photograph of the licensee and the kind of goods to be sold pursuant to the
application, together with an expiration date. (1980 Code § 9-454; amd. 2002
Code)
3-4-5: FEES:
   A.   Established: The license fee which shall be charged by the city
recorder for any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be in such
amount as established by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Interstate Commerce: None of the license fees provided for by this
chapter shall be applied as to occasion an undue burden upon interstate
commerce. For specific provisions, see subsection 3-1-5B of this title. (1980
Code § 9-455; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4-6: LICENSES AND BADGES:
   A.   Issuance: The city recorder shall issue to each licensee at the time of
delivery of his license, a badge which shall contain the words "licensed
solicitor", "licensed transient merchant", or "licensed peddler", as the case
may be, for which the application was made and the license issued, and the
number of the license, in letters and figures easily discernible from a
distance of five feet (5'). Such badge shall, during the time peddlers or
solicitors are engaged in the business for which they are licensed, be worn
constantly by them on the front of their outer garment in such a way as to be
conspicuous.
   B.   Exhibit License: Any person licensed pursuant to this chapter shall
exhibit such license at the request of any citizen of the city. (1980 Code § 9-
456)
   C.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of any law enforcement official to
require any person seen soliciting, canvassing or peddling, and who is not
known by such officer to be duly licensed, to produce his or her license and to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Expiration Of License: All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter
shall expire on the date specified on the license. (1980 Code § 9-456; amd.
2002 Code)
3-4-7: NOTICE OF REVOCATION HEARING:
Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in writing,
setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and place of
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee at his
last known address or at the address shown on his application. The hearing and
notice shall in all other aspects substantially comply with section
1-4-3 of this code. (1980 Code § 9-456)
3-4-8: REVOCATION AFTER HEARING:
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the city's law
enforcement officials or the city recorder, after notice and hearing, for any
of the following causes:
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation or a false statement contained in the
application for the license.
   B.   Fraud, misrepresentation or a false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business as solicitor, canvasser, peddler or itinerant
merchant.
   C.   Any violation of this chapter, or city, state or federal law.
   D.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
   E.   Conducting the business of a solicitor, canvasser, peddler or itinerant
merchant in an unlawful manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(1980 Code § 9-456; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4-9: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the action of the city's law enforcement officials or
the city recorder in the denial of a license issued pursuant to this chapter,
or by the action of the city council, may file an appeal. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing with the city council within fourteen (14) days after notice of
the action complained of has been mailed to such person's last known address or
address on the business application, a written statement setting forth fully
the grounds for the appeal. A time and place for the hearing on such appeal and
notice of such hearing shall be set and given to the applicant in the same
manner as provided in section
3-4-7 of this chapter. (1980 Code § 9-456; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4-10: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
This chapter shall not be construed so as to waive the provisions and
requirements of any other ordinance of the city and the requirements and fees
required herein shall be in addition to any other requirements and fees of any
other ordinance of the city. (1980 Code § 9-457)
3-4-11: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any individual who is, at the
time he is engaged in any activity which would otherwise require licensing by
this chapter, engaged in an activity which is authorized by any church which
has a permanent structure located within the state, provided such church has
had such permanent structure for at least six (6) months prior to the date when
the individual engaged in the activity would otherwise require licensing by
this chapter. (1980 Code § 9-458)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Defined
3-5-2: Permit Required
3-5-3: Application For Permit
3-5-4: Issuance Of Permit
3-5-5: Control Of Animal And Fowl Facilities
3-5-6: Existing Businesses And Facilities
3-5-1: DEFINED:
"Offensive businesses", within the meaning of this chapter, shall include, but
not be limited to, packinghouses, dairies, tanneries, canneries, renderies,
junk or salvage yards, bone factories, slaughterhouses, butcher shops, soap
factories, foundries, breweries, distilleries, livery stables, blacksmith
shops, or any other enterprise or establishment which creates excessive odors,
fumes, smoke, gases or noises. (1980 Code § 10-241B)
3-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall commence or change the location of an offensive business or
establishment in or within one mile of the limits of the city without first
filing an application for a permit to do so with the city recorder. (1980 Code
§ 10-241A)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The application for a permit shall specify the location at which the business
or establishment is to be operated and maintained or the new location to which
it is to be moved. The application shall describe the type of activity which
will be conducted and describe the manner in which the business or
establishment shall eliminate, control, or modify the emission by the business
of the undesirable odors, fumes, noises, and other noisome features and the
manner in which it shall be screened from public view, if its appearance is
offensive. (1980 Code § 10-241C)
3-5-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Report And Recommendation: The city recorder shall cause a study to be
made of the proposed business or relocation of any offensive business or
establishment by the board of health and by personnel engaged in the inspection
of buildings and other facilities. A report and recommendation shall be made to
the city council. The city council, after review, may grant to the applicant an
opportunity to be heard and present additional facts. Thereafter the city
council may:
      1.   Deny the application.
      2.   Recommend a modification thereof.
      3.   Grant a limited permit to enter into the business or make the change
of location subject to the requirement that the business or facility conform to
standards established by the city council with reference to controlling the
offensive features of the business.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: In the event a permit is granted, it shall be
subject to revocation either upon failure of the operator or owner to conduct
his business in the manner specified by the city council at the time of the
granting of the permit, or because a change of circumstances makes the
continued operation or maintenance of the business or facility a public
nuisance.
   C.   Modification Of Permit: The city council shall have power to revoke or
modify the permission to operate and maintain the business in such a manner as
it deems necessary for the public good. (1980 Code § 10-242)
3-5-5: CONTROL OF ANIMAL AND FOWL FACILITIES:
   A.   Location And Management: The city council shall have the power to
prohibit or control the location and management of any offensive, unwholesome
business or establishment in or within one mile of the city and may compel the
owner of any pigsty, privy, barn corral, fur-bearing animal farm, feed yard,
poultry farm, or other unwholesome or nauseous house or place to cleanse, abate
or remove the same.
   B.   Examination Of Operation: The city council may, on its own initiative,
and shall, on complaint of a member of the public, examine the operation,
control or location of any business or facility for the purpose of determining
whether or not the operation of such business or facility should be improved so
as to minimize the offensive and unwholesome characteristics or whether the
business or activity should be moved or abated.
   C.   Notification Of Abatement: In the event that the city council decides
that the business or facility should be abated, removed, or controlled, it
shall notify the owner or operator of the business or facility of such fact.
(1980 Code § 10-244)
   D.   Hearing; Limited Permit: After a hearing, the city council may issue a
limited permit wherein it may prescribe the specifications and standard which
must be followed by the business or facility in order to be permitted to
continue in operation.
   E.   Abatement Or Removal: Upon a determination by the city council that the
business or facility is a nuisance, it shall have power to order the abatement
or removal of the facility or establishment. If the owner fails to conform to
such order, the city council shall have power to bring all necessary legal
proceedings to force removal, abatement or adherence to standards. (1980 Code §
10-244; amd. 2002 Code)
3-5-6: EXISTING BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES:
   A.   Investigation By City Council: The city council may require an
investigation of any existing offensive business or facility to determine
whether or not it should be permitted to remain in existence in or within one
mile of the city limits. If the city council determines that the continuation
of the business or facility has become a nuisance to persons situated within
the city limits or that ample control is not being exercised to minimize the
creation of excessive odors, fumes, smoke, gases, and noise, it shall notify
the owner or operator thereof that the city council is considering revoking or
modifying the operator's permit.
   B.   Conform To Standards And Specifications: If the city council decides to
require a modification of the manner in which the business or facility is to be
maintained, it shall specify the standards or specifications to which the
enterprise must conform or otherwise lose its permit to engage thereafter in
the business or activity. (1980 Code § 10-243; amd. 2002 Code)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Established
4-1-2: Fire Chief Position Created
4-1-3: Powers And Duties Of Fire Chief
4-1-4: Designation Of Emergency Vehicles
4-1-5: Responsibilities, Rights And Restrictions
4-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created a fire department to be known as the Lewiston volunteer
fire department. (1980 Code § 10-111)
4-1-2: FIRE CHIEF POSITION CREATED:
There is hereby created the position of chief of the fire department. (1980
Code § 10-121)
4-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Supervision Of Department: The fire chief shall have responsibility for
the general supervision of the department.
   B.   Control And Extinguish Fire: During a fire, the fire chief shall have
full authority to take all measures as he shall deem necessary, subject to
state law, to control and extinguish the fire and for that purpose he is hereby
made a special peace officer.
   C.   Report Information To City Council: The fire chief shall, at least
quarterly, report to the city council the condition of the fire equipment, the
number of fires and their causes and the estimated loss therefrom, together
with such other information as the city council may request or as he shall deem
appropriate.
   D.   Enforce Fire Protection And Prevention: The fire chief shall strictly
enforce all of the provisions of the ordinances of the city relating to the
protection against and prevention of fire.
   E.   Maintain Equipment: The fire chief shall maintain the equipment of the
department in good repair and order and ready for use.
   F.   Establish Rules And Regulations: The fire chief, subject to the
approval of the mayor and city council, shall establish rules and regulations
for the operation of the department.
   G.   Delegate Duties: The fire chief may delegate his duties to any person
employed by the department, but such delegation shall not relieve the fire
chief of his responsibility for the performance thereof.
   H.   Investigation Of Fires: The fire chief shall cause all fires to be
promptly investigated to determine the cause of the fire and report the cause
of the fire, the time originated and such other information as may be relevant
to prevent other fires. (1980 Code § 10-122)
   I.   Employ Firefighters And Personnel: The fire chief may make
recommendations to the mayor relating to the employment of firefighters and
such other personnel as may be necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The fire chief may employ such additional personnel as the mayor and
city council may direct or authorize. (1980 Code § 10-123)
4-1-4: DESIGNATION OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Fire trucks and other motor vehicles used to transport fire equipment or fire
personnel are hereby designated authorized emergency vehicles. (1980 Code § 10-
131; amd. 2002 Code)
4-1-5: RESPONSIBILITIES, RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Removal Of Obstructions At Fire: The officer in charge at any fire may
order the removal or destruction of any fence, building or structure, or that
any utility be closed, cut or removed when deemed necessary to control,
extinguish or prevent the spread of fire. (1980 Code § 10-132)
   B.   Control Of Persons: All persons present at a fire shall obey the lawful
orders of any firefighters. (1980 Code § 10-133)
   C.   Interference With Firefighters In Discharge Of Duties: Every person at
the scene of any fire who wilfully disobeys the lawful orders of any public
officer or firefighter, or offers any resistance to or interference with the
efforts of any firefighter, or company of firefighters to extinguish the same,
or engages in any disorderly conduct calculated to prevent the same from being
extinguished, or who forbids, prevents or dissuades others from assisting to
extinguish the same, is guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 10-134; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Unlawful Interference: Any person who shall wilfully hinder any officer
or firefighter in the discharge of his duty at a fire, or in any manner injure,
deface or destroy any engine, hose or other fire apparatus belonging to the
city, or who shall interfere with any fire company or person, or who shall
wilfully break or injure any water pipe or interfere with the water or its
source of supply, shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 10-135; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Investigation After Fire; Report: The fire chief, or such other persons
as he shall designate, shall, after extinguishing a fire, make a prompt and
thorough investigation of the cause of the fire, the time the fire began, the
amount of loss and insurance, a description of the affected buildings and
premises, and shall secure all other useful information available, and record
the same in a record book kept for that purpose in the office of the department
and shall report the same to the city council at such time as it may direct.
(1980 Code § 10-136)
   F.   Right To Enter And Inspect: The fire chief or his deputies, upon
presentation of proper credentials, shall have the right to enter upon any
premises at all reasonable hours for the purpose of making inspections. (1980
Code § 10-137)
   G.   Persons Present Subject To Orders: Every capable person eighteen (18)
years or older present at a fire shall be subject to the orders of the officer
in command and shall render assistance in the manner directed by the officer in
command. (1980 Code § 10-138; amd. 2002 Code)
   H.   False Alarm: It shall be unlawful for any person to turn in or report
to the fire department a false alarm or report of a fire or to tamper or remove
any part of the fire alarm system. (1980 Code § 10-139)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Declaration Of Nuisance
4-2-3: Toilet Or Sewer Facilities
4-2-4: Restrictions On Blocking Water
4-2-5: Nuisances On Property
4-2-6: Abatement Procedure
4-2-7: Penalty For Failure To Comply
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AUTHOR: Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the outgrowth of the
usual, natural or necessary use of the property, the landlord or his agent, the
tenant or his agent, and all other persons having control of the property on
which such nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors thereof and shall
be equally liable and responsible. Where any such nuisance shall arise from the
unusual or unnecessary use of such property or from the business thereon
conducted, then the occupants and all other persons contributing to the
continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed the authors.
NUISANCE: Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders
soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome is declared to be a nuisance and
unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person either as an owner, agent or
occupant to create or aid in creating or contributing to or maintaining a
nuisance. (1980 Code §§ 10-311, 10-312; amd. 2002 Code)
4-2-2: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Statement: Every act or condition made, permitted, allowed or continued
in violation of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be
abated and punished as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Specified: Nuisances include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Befouling Water: Befouling water in any spring, stream, well or
water source supplying water for culinary purposes. (1980 Code § 10-313)
      2.   Privies, Cesspools: Allowing any privy vault or cesspool, or other
individual wastewater disposal system, to become a menace to health or a source
of odors or contamination to air or water.
      3.   Garbage Containers, Offensive: Permitting any garbage container to
remain on premises when it has become unclean and offensive.
      4.   Garbage Accumulation: Allowing vegetable waste, garbage, litter,
filth or refuse of any nature to accumulate within or upon any private alley,
yard or area, except when it is temporarily deposited for immediate removal.
      5.   Manure Accumulation: Permitting the accumulation of manure in any
stable, stall, corral, feed yard, yard or in any other building or area in
which any animals are kept.
      6.   Slaughterhouses, Feed Yards: Permitting any slaughterhouse, market,
meat shop, stable, feed yard or other place or building wherein any animals are
slaughtered, kept, fed or sold to remain unclean or in any state or condition
detrimental to health or creating a nuisance because of odors, or in which
flies or rodents breed.
      7.   Discharging Offensive Water Or Liquid Waste: Discharging or placing
any offensive water, chemical spray, liquid waste or refuse of any kind into
any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural watercourse, ditch,
canal or any vacant lot or which, as the result of continued discharge, will
render the place of discharge offensive or likely to become so. (1980 Code §
10-313; amd. 2002 Code)
      8.   Collecting Grease, Offensive Matter: Keeping or collecting any stale
or putrid grease or other offensive matter.
      9.   Flies And Mosquitos: Having or permitting upon any premises any fly
or mosquito producing condition.
      10.   Public Drinking Vessels: Keeping any drinking vessel for public use
without providing a method of decontamination between uses.
      11.   Ablutions Near Drinking Fountain: Permitting or performing any
ablutions in or near any public drinking fountain.
      12.   Boarding House Or Factory, Sanitary Condition: Failing to furnish
any dwelling house, boarding house or factory or other place of employment with
such privy vaults, water closets, sinks or other facilities as may be required
to maintain the same in sanitary condition.
      13.   Cleaning Privy Vaults: Neglecting or refusing to discontinue use
of, clean out, disinfect and fill up all privy vaults and cesspools or other
individual wastewater disposal systems within twenty (20) days after notice
from an enforcement officer or official of the city.
      14.   Stagnant Water; Offensive Substances: Permitting any lot or
excavation to become the repository of stagnant water or any decaying or
offensive substances.
      15.   Obstructing Public Ways, Watercourses, Parks: Obstructing or
tending to obstruct or interfere with or render dangerous for passage any
street or sidewalks, lake, stream, drainage system, canal or basin, or any
public park without first obtaining the written permission of the city council.
(1980 Code § 10-313)
   C.   Enumeration: The types of nuisances above stated shall be deemed in
addition to and in no way a limitation of the nuisances subject to this
chapter. (1980 Code § 10-314)
4-2-3: TOILET OR SEWER FACILITIES:
All toilet or sewer facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with Utah law and city ordinances. All such facilities that do not
comply with such provisions are hereby declared to be a nuisance and are
subject to abatement as herein prescribed. (1980 Code § 10-315; amd. 2002 Code)
4-2-4: RESTRICTIONS ON BLOCKING WATER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any drainage system,
canal, ditch, conduit or other watercourse of any kind or nature, natural or
artificial, to become so obstructed as to cause the water to back up and
overflow therefrom, or to become unsanitary.
   B.   Maintenance of any such watercourse in such condition shall constitute
a nuisance and the same shall be subject to abatement. (1980 Code § 10-316)
4-2-5: NUISANCES ON PROPERTY:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "nuisance" is
defined to mean any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which
are deleterious or injurious, noxious or unsightly, which includes, but is not
limited to, keeping or depositing on or scattering over the premises any of the
following:
      1.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris.
      2.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, containers or
other discarded items not currently in use. (1980 Code § 10-331; amd. 2002
Code)
   B.   Duty Of Maintenance: No person owning, leasing, occupying or having
charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall
any such person keep or maintain such premises in any manner causing
substantial diminution in the value of the other property in the neighborhood
in which such premises is located. (1980 Code § 10-332)
   C.   Storage Of Personal Property: Unsheltered storage of old, unused,
stripped and junked machinery, implements, equipment or personal property of
any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured, for a period of thirty (30) days or more (except in licensed
junkyards) within the city, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous
to the public safety. (1980 Code § 10-333)
   D.   Abatement By Owners: The owner, owners, tenants, lessees or occupants
of any lot within the city on which such "storage", as defined in subsection C
of this section, is made, and also the owner, owners or lessees of the above
described personal property involved in such storage, shall jointly and
severally abate such nuisance by its prompt removal into completely enclosed
and secured yards or buildings to be used for such purposes, or otherwise
remove such property from the city. (1980 Code § 10-334)
4-2-6: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Nuisance Inspector:
      1.   Established: There is hereby established the position of nuisance
inspector, whose duties it shall be to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Until another person is designated, the public works director or the assistant
public works director shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. More than
one person may be appointed to act as nuisance inspector under this section.
(1980 Code § 10-351; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Duties: The nuisance inspector is authorized to:
         a.   Perform all functions necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
         b.   Inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as needed, all
buildings, structures, lots or places for the purpose of determining whether
such are in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Existence Of Objectional Condition: If he concludes that there
exists an objectionable condition in violation of this chapter, the nuisance
inspector shall:
         a.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and descriptions
of the premises where such objects and conditions constituting a nuisance
exist.
         b.   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such
premises, either personally or by mailing notice prepaid, addressed to the
owner and occupant at their last known post office addresses as disclosed by
the records of the county assessor, or as otherwise ascertained, requiring such
owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy and
remove the nuisance within such time as the nuisance inspector may designate;
provided, that any person notified pursuant to this subsection shall be given
at least ten (10) but not more than twenty (20) days, as determined by the
nuisance inspector, following the date of service of such notice to correct the
objectionable condition. The notice shall:
            (1)   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation
and generally describe the premises on which the violation exists.
            (2)   Inform the owner, occupant or other person that in the event
he disagrees with the determination of the nuisance inspector and does not wish
to comply with the provisions of the notice or that he objects to the factual
or legal basis for the notice, he may request in writing a hearing before the
city council at a time and place to be set by the city council. A written
application for a hearing shall state the time within which the person must
conform to the provisions of the notice.
            (3)   Inform the person that in the event he fails or neglects to
correct the objectionable condition, the city will correct the objectionable
condition and will collect the costs of so correcting the objectionable
condition by either a court action, in which case he will be assessed such
costs, together with reasonable attorney fees and court costs, or will charge
the cost of correcting the violation against the property as a tax.
         c.   In the event the owner or occupant makes such request for a
hearing, the city council shall set the time and place for hearing objections
and the city recorder shall notify the owner, occupant or other persons having
an interest in said property of the condition thereof in writing of the time
and place at which they may appear and be heard. The hearing shall be held
within less than five (5) days from the date of service or mailing of the
notice of hearing. (1980 Code § 10-351)
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   Informal Hearing; Written Decision: At the written request of an
owner, occupant or other person having an interest in property which is the
subject of a notice to remove or abate weeds, objectionable conditions or
objects from the property, the city council shall conduct an informal hearing
(which need not be reported), wherein such persons may present such evidence
and argument as is pertinent to the question of whether or not the removal or
abatement of the objects or conditions is properly within the purview of this
chapter. The city council shall also permit the presentation of evidence and
argument by the nuisance inspector and other interested parties. Thereafter,
within not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days, the city council
shall, over the signature of the mayor, or such other member of the city
council as it may designate, render its written decision, a copy of which shall
be mailed to or served upon the owner or any other person to whom the original
notice was given by the nuisance inspector.
      2.   Notice Of Decision; Abatement By Owner Or Occupant: In the event the
decision of the city council upholds the determination of the nuisance
inspector, the notice originally given by the nuisance inspector as above
provided shall be deemed to be sufficient to require the owner or occupant to
remove or abate the objectionable objects or conditions, and he shall have up
to ten (10) days from the date of notice of the decision within which to
conform thereto, unless additional time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, is
authorized by the nuisance inspector.
      3.   Time Period For Compliance: In the event that the decision of the
city council either overrules or modifies the determination of the nuisance
inspector, the written decision of the city council shall apprise the owner or
occupant of that fact and set forth the details and extent to which the owner
or occupant must make removal or other abatement of the objectionable objects
or conditions, if any. The owner or occupant shall be required to conform to
the decision of the city council within ten (10) days after service or mailing
of a copy of the decision, and the decision shall be deemed to be the modified
decision of the nuisance inspector, unless additional time is authorized by the
city council.
      4.   Filing Of Amended Notice: The nuisance inspector shall file an
amended notice and proof of service of notice and file the same in the office
of the county treasurer. (1980 Code § 10-352)
   C.   Failure To Comply; Abatement By City: If any owner, occupant or other
person having an interest in land described in such notice of decision to whom
the notice was given shall fail or neglect to conform to the requirements
thereof relating to the eradication, destruction or removal of such weeds,
garbage, refuse, objects or structures, the nuisance inspector shall employ all
necessary assistance to cause such objectionable objects or conditions to be
removed or destroyed at the expense of the city. (1980 Code § 10-353)
   D.   Itemized Statement: The nuisance inspector shall prepare an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of nuisances,
and shall mail a copy thereof to the owner or occupant, or both, or to persons
having an interest in the property, demanding payment within twenty (20) days
of the date of mailing. The notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by
registered mail, addressed to the last known address of the property owner,
occupant or persons having an interest in the property. (1980 Code § 10-354)
   E.   Failure To Make Payment: In the event the owner, occupant or person
having an interest in the property fails to make payment of the amount set
forth in the statement to the city treasurer within the twenty (20) days, the
nuisance inspector may either cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court
of law or may refer the matter to the county treasurer as provided in this
chapter. (1980 Code § 10-355)
   F.   Collection:
      1.   Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of destruction and
removal are pursued through the courts, the city shall sue and receive judgment
for all of said expenses of destruction and removal, together with reasonable
attorney fees, interest and court costs, and shall execute upon such judgment
in the manner provided by law. (1980 Code § 10-356)
      2.   Taxes: In the event that the nuisance inspector elects to refer the
expenses of destruction or removal to the county treasurer for inclusion in the
tax notice of the property owner, he shall make in triplicate an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the destruction and removal of the same,
and shall deliver three (3) copies of the statement to the county treasurer
within ten (10) days after the completion of the work of destroying or removing
such weeds, refuse, garbage, objects or structures. Thereupon, the costs of the
work shall be pursued by the county treasurer in accordance with the provisions
of Utah Code Annotated section
10-11-4, as amended, and the recalcitrant owner shall have such rights and
shall be subject to such powers as are thereby granted. (1980 Code § 10-357)
   G.   Criminal Proceedings: The commencement of criminal proceedings for the
purpose of imposing penalties for violations of this chapter shall not be
conditioned upon prior issuance of a notice or the granting to the defendant an
opportunity to abate or remove the nuisance. The provisions of this chapter
relating to notice and abatement shall be deemed merely alternative and
additional methods of securing conformity to the provisions of this chapter.
(1980 Code § 10-358)
4-2-7: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   Class C Misdemeanor: Any owner, occupant or person having an interest
in property subject to this chapter who shall fail to comply with the notice or
order given pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense.
   B.   Criminal Proceedings: Compliance by any owner, occupant or person to
whom a notice has been given subsequent to the commencement of criminal
proceedings as provided in this chapter shall not be admissible in any criminal
proceeding brought pursuant to this section. (1980 Code § 10-359; amd. 2002
Code)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: Standard Of Weed Control
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
"Weeds" shall include any vegetation commonly referred to as a weed or which
shall have been designated a noxious weed by the Utah commissioner of
agriculture. (1980 Code § 10-322)
4-3-2: STANDARD OF WEED CONTROL:
   A.   Conditions Constituting Nuisance: It is hereby declared that the above
stated weeds constitute a nuisance when they:
      1.   Create a fire hazard, a source of contamination or pollution of the
water, air or property, a danger to health, a breeding place or habitation for
insects or rodents or other forms of life deleterious to humans, or are
unsightly or deleterious to their surroundings; or
      2.   Exceed eighteen inches (18") from the ground or soil in which they
are anchored.
   B.   Removal: The cut weeds shall be removed from the premises within forty
eight (48) hours after cutting. (1980 Code § 3-323; amd. 2002 Code)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
It shall be an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for any person owning or occupying real property to allow
weeds to grow higher on such property than is permitted by this chapter or not
to remove from such property any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse,
unsightly or deleterious objects after having been given notice as provided in
section
4-2-6 of this title. (1980 Code § 3-321; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Contract For Services
4-4-2: Misuse Of Recycling Bins
4-4-3: Misuse Of Specific Municipal Refuse Containers
4-4-1: CONTRACT FOR SERVICES:
The city has contracted with Cache County for garbage and refuse services. The
contract is on file in the city office. (2002 Code)
4-4-2: MISUSE OF RECYCLING BINS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
RECYCLING: The process of collecting materials diverted from the waste stream
for reuse.
RECYCLING BIN: Any receptacle made available to the public by a governmental
entity or private business for the collection of any source-separated item for
recycling purposes. (Ord. 01-3, 7-18-2001)
   B.   Prohibitions: It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, to place any prohibited item or substance in a recycling
bin if the bin is posted with the following information printed legibly in
basic English: (Ord. 01-3, 7-18-2001; amd. 2002 Code)
      1.   A descriptive list of the items that may be deposited in the
recycling bin, entitled in boldface capital letters: "ITEMS YOU MAY DEPOSIT IN
THIS RECYCLING BIN:";
      2.   At the end of the list in subsection B1 of this section, the
following statement in boldface capital letters: "REMOVING FROM THIS BIN ANY
ITEM THAT IS LISTED ABOVE AND THAT YOU DID NOT PLACE IN THIS CONTAINER IS THE
CRIMINAL OFFENSE OF THEFT, PUNISHABLE BY LAW";
      3.   The following statement in boldface capital letters: "DEPOSIT OF ANY
OTHER ITEM IN THIS RECYCLING BIN IS AGAINST THE LAW";
      4.   The following statement in boldface capital letters, posted on the
recycling collection container in close proximity to the notices required under
subsections B1 through B3 of this section: "PLACING ANY ITEM OR SUBSTANCE IN
THIS RECYCLING BIN OTHER THAN THOSE ALLOWED IN THE LIST POSTED ON THIS BIN IS
AN INFRACTION, PUNISHABLE BY A MAXIMUM FINE OF $750.00"; and
      5.   The name and telephone number of the entity that owns the recycling
bin or is responsible for its placement and maintenance. (Ord. 01-3, 7-18-2001)
   C.   Use By Nonresidents Of County Illegal: It is a class C misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any nonresident of Cache County, whether a nonresident
business, or its agents, or a nonresident individual, to place any item or
substance in a recycling bin within this city, if the bin is posted with the
following information printed legibly in basic English: "PLACING ANY ITEM OR
SUBSTANCE IN THIS RECYCLING BIN BY A NONRESIDENT OF CACHE COUNTY, WHETHER AN
INDIVIDUAL OR A BUSINESS OR ITS AGENTS, IS A CLASS C MISDEMEANOR, PUNISHABLE BY
A MAXIMUM FINE OF $750.00 AND A MAXIMUM JAIL TERM OF 90 DAYS". (Ord. 01-3, 7-
18-2001; amd. 2002 Code)
4-4-3: MISUSE OF SPECIFIC MUNICIPAL REFUSE CONTAINERS:
   A.   Unauthorized Use; Infraction: It is an infraction, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person not authorized by the city to dispose of,
discard, place, put or drop refuse into a refuse container not designated for
their use. It is also an infraction for any person to deposit refuse that is
not generated on a public site into a refuse container designated for public
use at that site.
   B.   Definition; Residential Use Only: As used in this section, "specific
municipal refuse container" means any receptacle, including, but not limited
to, a roll off dumpster, that is not a recycling bin and that is made available
to the residents of the city by the city for the collection of permitted items
as provided in this section. Such containers will ordinarily be paid for by the
city and its residents through a surcharge on their monthly garbage bill, or
may be otherwise paid for by the city. Such containers shall be for residential
refuse or waste only, shall not be used for commercial refuse or waste, and the
use of such container shall be strictly in compliance with the regulations
applicable to such containers as imposed by federal, state, Cache County or
Logan City laws, ordinances or regulations as made applicable to the Cache
County service area no. 1 refuse containers or to the disposal of refuse and
waste generally.
   C.   Use By Nonresident; Misdemeanor: It is a class C misdemeanor, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any nonresident of the city, whether a nonresident
business, or its agents, or a nonresident individual, to place any item or
substance in specific municipal refuse containers, within this city, if the
containers or the place where the containers are located is posted with the
following information printed legibly in basic English: "PLACING ANY ITEM OR
SUBSTANCE IN THIS REFUSE CONTAINER BY A NONRESIDENT OF LEWISTON CITY, WHETHER
AN INDIVIDUAL OR A BUSINESS OR ITS AGENTS, IS A CLASS C MISDEMEANOR, PUNISHABLE
BY A MAXIMUM FINE OF $750.00 AND A MAXIMUM JAIL TERM OF 90 DAYS".
   D.   Deposit Of Prohibited Items; Infraction: It is an infraction, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to place any prohibited item or substance in a municipal
refuse container if the container is posted, and/or the place where the
container is located is posted, with the following information printed legibly
in basic English:
      1.   A descriptive list of the items that may be deposited in the
municipal refuse container, entitled in boldface capital letters: "THIS
CONTAINER IS FOR RESIDENTIAL USE ONLY. ITEMS YOU MAY DEPOSIT IN THIS MUNICIPAL
REFUSE CONTAINER:";
      2.   At the end of the list in subsection D1 of this section, the
following statement in boldface capital letters: "REMOVING FROM THIS CONTAINER
ANY ITEM THAT YOU DID NOT PLACE IN THIS CONTAINER IS THE CRIMINAL OFFENSE OF
THEFT, PUNISHABLE BY LAW";
      3.   The following statement in boldface capital letters: "DEPOSIT OF ANY
OTHER ITEM IN THIS MUNICIPAL REFUSE CONTAINER AND ANY COMMERCIAL USE OF THIS
CONTAINER IS AGAINST THE LAW";
      4.   The following statement in boldface capital letters, posted at the
place where the container is located and/or posted on the municipal refuse
collection container in close proximity to the notices required under
subsections D1 through D3 of this section: "PLACING ANY ITEM OR SUBSTANCE IN
THIS MUNICIPAL REFUSE CONTAINER OTHER THAN THOSE ALLOWED IN THE LIST POSTED ON
THIS CONTAINER, OR THE COMMERCIAL USE OF THIS CONTAINER, IS AN INFRACTION,
PUNISHABLE BY A MAXIMUM FINE OF $750.00"; and
      5.   The name and telephone number of the city. (Ord. 01-3, 7-18-2001;
amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Board Of Health Designated
4-5-2: Health Director Designated
4-5-3: Permit Required
4-5-4: Unwholesome Food
4-5-5: Removal Of Garbage
4-5-6: Discharge Of Sewage; Pollution
4-5-7: Inadequate Plumbing
4-5-1: BOARD OF HEALTH DESIGNATED:
   A.   Established: The Bear River district health department is hereby
designated as the board of health of the city. (1980 Code § 10-211)
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Contract With District Health Department: The city may contract with
the Bear River district health department on such terms and conditions as the
parties may agree to enforce the provisions of this chapter and such other
ordinances of the city, which authorize or require action or impose any duty on
the board of health.
      2.   Adopt Rules And Regulations: The board of health shall adopt such
rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary to govern its meetings and
conduct.
      3.   Review And Approve Applications And Permits: The board of health
shall review and approve all applications for permits to operate any business
or engage in any construction for which a permit is required from the board of
health, pursuant to any ordinances or regulations of the city.
      4.   Recommend Rules And Regulations: The board of health shall recommend
to the mayor for promulgation by the city council such health rules,
regulations and ordinances as it deems necessary for the health of the persons
within the city. (1980 Code § 10-212)
4-5-2: HEALTH DIRECTOR DESIGNATED:
   A.   Position Created: The health director of the Bear River district health
department is hereby designated as the health director of the city. (1980 Code
§ 10-221)
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Appoint Or Designate Assistant: The health director may appoint or
designate any qualified person to act as his assistant for the purpose of
enforcing the ordinances of the city.
      2.   Enforce Terms And Conditions Of Contract: Subject to the terms and
conditions of the contract between the Bear River district health department,
the health director shall:
         a.   Be the executive officer of the board of health.
         b.   Enforce all ordinances of the city and the state which relate to
the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
         c.   Enforce all rules, regulations and ordinances relating to:
            (1)   Plumbing, sanitation, contagious infectious diseases,
quarantine and sewage disposal.
            (2)   Producing, storing, keeping and selling meat, dairy or other
foods or food products.
            (3)   The quarantine and disposal of all animals affected with any
contagious or infectious diseases. (1980 Code § 10-222)
         d.   Enforce the nuisance ordinances of the city, if, and as requested
by the city nuisance inspector. (1980 Code § 10-222; amd. 2002 Code)
         e.   Have the power to impose and maintain a strict quarantine of all
infected persons and premises having contagious or infectious diseases, and to
require such persons or premises to be disinfected.
         f.   Have the right and authority, when he shall deem necessary to
secure or preserve the public health, to enter into or upon any premises,
building or other place during the daytime to examine, analyze or test any
building, structure, premises, product or goods manufactured, stored or kept
within the city for the purpose of enforcing this chapter. (1980 Code § 10-222)
4-5-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Businesses, Activities Requiring Permit: It shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in any of the following businesses or activities without first
obtaining a permit from the board of health:
      1.   Food Or Food Products For Human Consumption: Handling, selling,
offering for sale, preparing or serving any food or food products or beverages
or water intended for human consumption.
      2.   Public Swimming Pool: Operating or permitting public access to any
public swimming pool.
      3.   Public Dump: Commercially operating any public dump, garbage or
refuse collection or disposal facility, or cleaning out or installing any
privy, cesspool or septic tank.
      4.   Fumigation Of Pests: Fumigating or eradicating pests, insects,
vermin or any other infestation from any building occupied or to be occupied by
humans. (1980 Code § 10-213; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Applications for a permit from the board of health shall be made in
writing to the city recorder.
      2.   The application shall be referred by the city recorder to the board
of health for review and recommendation. The board of health shall then forward
the application with its recommendation to the mayor for approval or
disapproval by the city council. (1980 Code § 10-214)
4-5-4: UNWHOLESOME FOOD:
It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to sell or offer for sale any unwholesome
food or beverage which has been condemned by any government food inspector.
(1980 Code § 10-223; amd. 2002 Code)
4-5-5: REMOVAL OF GARBAGE:
   A.   Upon Vacating Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person, upon
vacating or moving from any dwelling, storeroom or other building, to fail to
remove all garbage, rubbish or ashes from such building or premises and the
grounds appurtenant thereto, or to fail to place the same in a thoroughly
sanitary condition within twenty four (24) hours after the premises is vacated.
   B.   Rental Property: In situations where rental property is so vacated, the
owner of the property shall be concurrently responsible with the tenant thereof
for compliance with this section. (1980 Code § 10-224)
4-5-6: DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE; POLLUTION:
   A.   Conform To Standards: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
or permit the discharge of any sewage or filth from any premises into and upon
any public highway, stream, watercourse or public place, or into any drain,
cesspool or private wastewater disposal system which does not conform to
standards established by the state division of health or by the city.
   B.   Connection To Public Sewer System: The health director may order a
connection for sewage disposal to be made with the public sewer system provided
by the city if such is available; provided, that the public sewer system is
within three hundred feet (300') of the premises.
   C.   Pollution: The health director shall use all due measures to prevent
the fouling of any streams, watercourses, reservoirs or any source furnishing
water to any of the inhabitants of the city. (1980 Code § 10-225)
4-5-7: INADEQUATE PLUMBING:
The health director shall have power to require the prompt repair of all leaks
or other defects in plumbing throughout the city. He shall have power to
condemn and abate all plumbing which is deficient under the plumbing
ordinances. When, in the opinion of the health director, a change in occupants,
type of business or other cause requires changes in plumbing, he shall have the
power to compel the installation of an increased number of plumbing fixtures
and a change in their type or capacity, and to make such other alterations or
increases as may be necessary for the health and safety of the occupants of the
building and of the public generally. (1980 Code § 10-226)
CHAPTER 6
LITTER; HANDBILLS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Handbills And Posters; Restricted Activity
4-6-3: Permit Required
4-6-4: Application For Permit
4-6-5: Litter Regulations
4-6-6: Handbill Regulations
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter:
AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE: A public or private litter storage and collection
receptacle.
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature:
   A.   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
   B.   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest in sales thereof;
   C.   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. However, the terms of this
clause shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is
taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided, that nothing contained
in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place
of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without
a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this state,
or under any ordinance of the city; or
   D.   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter,
is predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, cooking or consumption of food, condemned
food products and all refuse and waste from the handling, storage, preparation
and sale of produce. Garbage originates primarily in kitchens, stores, markets,
restaurants, hotels and other places where food is handled, stored, sold,
cooked and consumed.
LITTER: Includes "garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish", as defined herein, and all
other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends
to create a danger to public health, safety, welfare or appearance of the city.
NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general or local circulation or any periodical or
current magazine regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per
year and sold to the public.
NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a "commercial handbill"
or "newspaper".
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city.
REFUSE: Putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and solid
market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, wrapping, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
VEHICLE: Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively on
stationary rails or tracks. (1980 Code § 10-431)
4-6-2: HANDBILLS AND POSTERS; RESTRICTED ACTIVITY:
No person or business shall post, stick, stamp, paint or otherwise affix, or
cause the same to be done by any person, any notice, placard, bill, card,
poster, advertisement or other paper or device calculated to attract the
attention of the public upon any sidewalk, curb or any other portion or part of
any public way or public place, or upon any lamppost, electric light,
telegraph, telephone or railway structure, hydrant, shade tree or tree box, or
upon the columns, trusses, girders, railings, gates or other parts of any
bridge or other public structure or building, or upon any pole, box or fixture
of the fire alarm or police telegraph system, except such as may be authorized
or required by the laws of the United States or state, and the ordinances of
the city. (1980 Code § 10-449A)
4-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to distribute indiscriminately to the public by leaving at
houses or residences in the city any cards, circulars, handbills, samples of
merchandise or any advertising matter whatsoever without having first secured a
permit therefor. This section shall not be construed to apply to the sale of
articles by licensed peddlers. (1980 Code § 10-449B)
4-6-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Applications for such permit shall be made to
the city recorder and shall contain a statement of the nature of the article,
cards or advertisement to be distributed, the name of the applicant and the
name of the manufacturer or distributor of such article or service advertised.
(1980 Code § 10-449C)
   B.   Investigation: Permits shall be issued only to persons of good
character. The city's law enforcement official shall make or cause to be made
an investigation into the character of each applicant and shall report the
results thereof to the city recorder before any such permit is issued. (1980
Code § 10-449D; amd. 2002 Code)
4-6-5: LITTER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Public Places: No person shall throw or deposit litter in or on any
street, sidewalk or other public place; except:
      1.   In authorized receptacles for collection or in official city garbage
dumps; or
      2.   For collection as authorized by the city council. (1980 Code § 10-
432)
   B.   Placement In Receptacles: Persons placing litter in authorized
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk or other public place or on
private property. (1980 Code § 10-433)
   C.   Sweeping Into Gutters Prohibited: No person shall sweep into or deposit
in any gutter, street or other public place the accumulation of litter from any
building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway, except as
authorized by the city council. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep
the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter. (1980 Code § 10-434)
   D.   Merchants' Duty To Keep Sidewalks Clear: No person owning or occupying
a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any
public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of
business shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter. (1980 Code § 10-435)
   E.   Thrown By Person From Vehicle: No person, while a driver or passenger
in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter on any street or other public
place, or on private property. (1980 Code § 10-436)
   F.   Loads Causing Litter: No person shall drive or move any truck or other
vehicle unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited on any street, alley or other
public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind. (1980 Code § 10-437)
   G.   Parks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park, except in
authorized receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements on any part of the park or on
any street or other public place. Where authorized receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein. (1980 Code § 10-438)
   H.   Lakes And Fountains: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any
fountain, pond, lake, stream or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere
within the city. (1980 Code § 10-439)
   I.   Occupied Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit litter on
any occupied private property, whether owned by such person or not, except that
the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements onto any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on any private property. (1980 Code § 10-447)
   J.   Vacant Lots: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or
vacant private property, whether or not owned by such person. (1980 Code § 10-
448)
4-6-6: HANDBILL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Throwing Or Distributing In Public Places; Penalty: No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any
sidewalk, street or other public place within the city. Unless otherwise
authorized by the city council, it is an infraction, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to hand out, distribute or sell any
commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, that it shall not
be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place for any person to
hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it. (1980 Code § 10-440;
amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Placing On Vehicles: Unless otherwise authorized by the city council,
no person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
on any vehicle; provided however, that it shall not be unlawful in any public
place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver
thereof a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to
accept it. (1980 Code § 10-441)
   C.   Depositing On Uninhabited Or Vacant Premises: No person shall throw or
deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any private premises
which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant. (1980 Code § 10-
442)
   D.   Prohibiting Distribution Where Properly Posted: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill on any private
premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so or if there is placed on
said premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign
bearing the words "no trespassing", "no peddlers or agents", "no
advertisements", or any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the
occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or to have their right
of privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left on such premises. (1980
Code § 10-443)
   E.   Distributing At Inhabited Private Premises: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on private
premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such
handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or on
such private premises. However, in case of inhabited private premises which is
not posted, as provided in this section, such person, unless requested by
anyone on such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in
or on such inhabited private premises if such handbill is so placed or
deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifting
about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except
that mailboxes may not be so used when prohibited by federal postal law or
regulations. (1980 Code § 10-444)
   F.   Exception For Mail And Newspapers: The provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers,
except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner so
as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on private property. (1980 Code § 10-445)
   G.   Posting Notice Prohibited: No person shall post or affix any notice,
poster or other paper or device, calculated to attract the attention of the
public, to any lamppost, public utility pole or shade tree, or on any public
structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law. (1980
Code § 10-446)
CHAPTER 7
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY; RECOVERY OF EXPENSES
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Recovery Authorized
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DISASTER OR EMERGENCY: A situation causing or threatening to cause widespread
damage, social disruption or injury or loss of life or property resulting from
attack, internal disturbance, natural phenomena or technological hazard.
EXPENSES: Actual labor costs of the city and voluntary personnel, including
workers' compensation and other benefits, administrative overhead, costs of
equipment, costs of equipment operation, costs of materials and the costs of
any contract labor and materials.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY: A sudden and unexpected release of any substance
that because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics, presents a direct and immediate threat to public safety or the
environment and requires immediate action to mitigate the threat.
TECHNOLOGICAL HAZARD: Any hazardous materials accident, mine accident, train
derailment, air crash, radiation incident, pollution, structural fire or
explosion. (Ord. 97-3, 11-19-1997)
4-7-2: RECOVERY AUTHORIZED:
The mayor is authorized and directed to take all necessary action to recover,
on behalf of the city, from those persons whose negligent actions caused a
hazardous materials emergency, expenses incurred by the city directly
associated with a response to such hazardous materials emergency. (Ord. 97-3,
11-19-1997)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Animal Control Officer
5-1-2: Dog Pound
5-1-3: Vaccination Of Dogs Required
5-1-4: Licensing Requirements
5-1-5: Kennels
5-1-6: Cruelty To Animals
5-1-7: Vicious Animals
5-1-8: Dogs Attacking
5-1-9: Control Of Rabies And Rabid Animals
5-1-10: Animals At Large
5-1-11: Dogs At Large; Nuisance Dogs
5-1-12: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-1-13: Impounding
5-1-14: Entrance Upon Premises
5-1-15: Keeping Animals; Zoning Applicability
5-1-1: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the position of animal control officer
which position shall be filled by appointment by the city council with
compensation to be set by the city council, as well as terms of employment.
(1980 Code § 13-241)
   B.   Duties: The animal control officer shall perform the following duties:
      1.   Carry out and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Take into his possession and impound all strays running at large and
dispose of the same as hereinafter provided.
      3.   Enforce the licensing of and control of all dogs within the city, as
hereinafter provided.
      4.   File complaints in the courts against any person, firm or
corporation failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter and obtain
licenses when required thereunder.
      5.   Capture and secure all dogs found running at large contrary to the
provisions of this chapter and impound such dogs in a humane manner.
      6.   Provide for a good and sufficient pound in which all animals duly
committed to his charge or otherwise impounded by him shall be maintained.
      7.   Enter a description thereof in records kept for that purpose stating
the kind of animal, the circumstance under which received or impounded, and a
description thereof sufficient to provide identification, the costs expended
for the maintenance of the animal and amounts received arising out of
maintenance or sale of animals. (1980 Code § 13-212)
   C.   Shall Charge For Fees And Services: The animal control officer shall
charge, and the owners of animals taken into his possession for impound
disposal or other services shall pay, such fees and charges for services
performed by the pound or animal control officer as the city council shall
establish from time to time by resolution. All fees received by the animal
control officer shall be paid over to the city treasurer. (1980 Code § 13-214)
   D.   Interference With Officer Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to interfere, molest, hinder or obstruct the animal control officer or
any of his authorized representatives in the discharge of their duties as
herein prescribed. (1980 Code § 13-213)
5-1-2: DOG POUND:
The city council shall provide suitable premises and facilities to be used as a
city dog and estrayed animal pound wherein impounded animals can be adequately
kept and shall provide suitable facilities for the humane execution of dogs
required to be destroyed by this chapter or by the laws of the state. (1980
Code § 13-242)
5-1-3: VACCINATION OF DOGS REQUIRED:
All dogs over six (6) months of age kept, harbored or maintained by any person
in the city shall be vaccinated for rabies, distemper or other disease deemed
necessary for control by a licensed veterinarian and registered for
administering such shots. The vaccination shall cover such period as designated
by the animal control officer, or as specified by state statutes.
   A.   Tag: Every owner shall be required to attach the vaccination tag to the
dog collar along with the current year's dog tag.
   B.   Transferability: Vaccination tags shall not be transferable from one
dog to another.
   C.   Removal Prohibited: No person shall remove or cause to be removed the
collar or vaccination tag from any dog vaccinated without the consent of the
owner, keeper or harborer thereof. (1980 Code § 13-245)
5-1-4: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required:
      1.   Registration: All dogs over six (6) months of age kept harbored or
maintained by any person within the city limits shall be registered with the
city, and a license shall be issued upon the payment of a fee.
      2.   Fee: The fee shall be set by the city council and shall be due on or
before January 31 of each year. The annual fee shall be delinquent after March
1 and shall be doubled if not paid before delinquent. No female dogs shall be
licensed as spayed without a certificate from a registered veterinarian that he
has performed ovariohysterectomy upon such female dog. The annual dog tags may
be changed by action of the city council.
      3.   Payment To City Recorder: Payment of all license fees for all dogs
shall be made to the city recorder or other designated officer.
      4.   Newly Acquired Dogs: The owner of any newly acquired dog of
registration age or any dog which attains registration age shall make
application for a license and an official registration tag for such dog within
ten (10) days after acquisition or age attainment.
      5.   Application; Information: The owner shall state at the time of
application for license, his name and address and the sex, breed, color and age
of each dog owned and kept by him. The owner must also present a certificate
from a veterinarian stating that the dog for which the license is being sought
has been vaccinated for the prevention of rabies. Such certificate must give
the last date of vaccination and the number of the vaccination tag issued by
the veterinarian at the time of vaccination. The license fee shall cover the
calendar year in which the license was being issued, expiring on December 31 of
the year of issuance regardless of the date thereof.
      6.   Revocation: The animal control officer may revoke any license issued
under this chapter if the person holding the license refuses or fails to comply
with the provisions of this chapter or any state or local law governing cruelty
to animals. Any person whose license is revoked shall within ten (10) days
thereafter sell, give away or humanely dispose of all dogs being owned, kept or
harbored by such person and no part of the license fee shall be refunded. (1980
Code § 13-243; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Exemptions: The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not
apply to any dog of either sex which has not reached the age of six (6) months
nor to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city for
thirty (30) days or less, nor to dogs brought into the city for the purpose of
participating in any dog show. (Ord., 10-17-1990)
   C.   Certificate And Tag:
      1.   Upon payment of the license fee, the city shall issue to the owners
a certificate and a tag for each dog. A metallic tag will be issued for each
dog and shall have stamped thereon the year issued, the words "Lewiston City
Dog Tag" and the tag number corresponding with the tag number of the
certificate. Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with the collar
or harness to which the license tag must be affixed and shall see that the
collar and tag are constantly worn. Dogs which are used for show purposes are
exempted from wearing the collar and tag during any showings. Dogs enclosed
within commercially licensed kennels are exempted from wearing the collar and
tag while confined within their kennels.
      2.   The original certificate issued as above provided shall be retained
by the owner or harborer of the registered dog for inspection by the authorized
representative of the city.
      3.   Duplicate dog tags shall be issued upon payment of a fee in such
amount as established by resolution of the city council for each tag so issued
to replace any original tag which has been lost or destroyed upon filing an
affidavit of loss or destruction by the person who secured the original tag.
      4.   Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another and no
refund shall be made on any dog tags for any reason whatsoever.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person keeping or harboring a dog for
which a license is required by this chapter to fail to exhibit the registration
certificate or license tag or rabies tag upon demand by the animal control
officer or other designated City official in the discharge of his duties. (1980
Code § 13-244; amd. Ord., 10-17-1990; 2002 Code)
5-1-5: KENNELS 1 :
   A.   Defined: Any person owning, keeping, harboring or maintaining three (3)
or more dogs, over the age of six (6) months old, shall be considered to be
operating a dog kennel. (Ord. 00-02, 5-24-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Applicability Of Land Use Regulations: A dog kennel shall only be
operated in those zones where designated and allowed in the City land use
ordinance, and may be operated only after a conditional use permit relating to
each kennel is obtained in accordance with the provisions and regulations of
the City land use ordinance. Application for the conditional use permit shall
be made as required by the City land use ordinance and each application shall
be approved or denied and each existing conditional use permit shall be renewed
or subject to nonrenewal and revocation as provided in the City land use
ordinance 2 . (Ord. 00-02, 5-24-2000; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
   C.   Permits Required: No person shall operate or maintain a dog kennel
without first obtaining the required conditional use permit and then a license
from the animal control officer.
   D.   Application For License; Inspection Of Premises: All applications to
the animal control officer for a license to operate or maintain a dog kennel
shall be submitted in writing, and shall have a copy of the applicant's
conditional use permit attached to it. The premises shall be inspected by a
designated City officer, and upon its approval, the animal control officer
shall issue a license upon payment of the fee hereinafter provided.
   E.   Kennel License Fee:
      1.   Any person conducting, operating or maintaining a dog kennel shall
pay to the City for the privilege of conducting, operating or maintaining such
kennel an annual fee in such amount as established by resolution of the City
Council.
      2.   The kennel license fee herein required may be changed from time to
time by resolution of the City Council.
   F.   Rules Established: The City Council may promulgate rules and
regulations covering the conduct and operation of all kennels within the City
by resolution.
   G.   Violation; Revocation: Whenever the City finds or discovers a violation
by a license holder of any rule or regulation either of the City or of the
State, it shall upon receipt of such notice immediately notify the owner or
keeper of such kennel to appear before the City Council at a day and time
certain to show cause why the kennel license for such person should not be
revoked for such violation. (Ord. 00-02, 5-24-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 10-7-3 of this Code for use definition of dog kennel.
2 1. See subsection 10-13-2L of this Code for procedure.
5-1-6: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   Prohibited: To maltreat or torture any dog, or have authority to kill
any dog in an inhumane manner. (1980 Code § 13-248)
   B.   Treat In Cruel And Inhumane Manner: To overdrive, overload, drive when
overloaded, overwork, torture, cruelly beat, mutilate or needlessly kill, or
carry or transport in any vehicle or other conveyance in a cruel and inhumane
manner, any animal or cause any of these acts to be done. (1980 Code § 13-231A)
   C.   Abandon: To abandon or turn out at large any sick, diseased or disabled
animal; but such animal shall, when rendered useless by reason of sickness or
other disability, be killed by the owner thereof and its carcass disposed of in
such manner as to create no nuisance or hazard to health. (1980 Code § 13-222)
   D.   Kill Or Poison:
      1.   To wilfully kill any domestic animal. (1980 Code § 13-224; amd. 2002
Code)
      2.   To wilfully or maliciously administer or cause to be administered
poison of any sort whatsoever to any dog or other animal the property of
another with the intent to injure or destroy such dog or other animal, or to
wilfully or maliciously place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to any dog or other animal. (1980 Code § 13-255)
   E.   Fail To Provide Care: To fail to provide any animal in his charge or
custody with necessary sustenance, drink and protection from the elements, or
cause any of these acts to be done. (1980 Code § 13-231B)
   F.   Maintain Place Of Exhibition: To maintain any place where fowl or any
animals are suffered to fight upon exhibition or for sport upon any wager.
(1980 Code § 13-231C)
   G.   Intentionally Exhibit: To intentionally exhibit any stud, horse or bull
or other animal indecently, or let any male animal to any female animal for the
purpose of providing entertainment or viewing to any person. (1980 Code § 13-
231D)
5-1-7: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Defined: "Vicious dog" means a dog that has bitten a person without
provocation or a dog that has a known propensity to attack or bite human
beings. Nothing contained in this definition shall be construed as requiring
that the owner, person in custody, possession or control of the said dog or the
person harboring, keeping or maintaining the said dog shall be required to have
scienter; scienter not being required in order for an owner, or a person in
custody, possession or control of the said dog or the person harboring, keeping
or maintaining the said dog to be found guilty of any offense under this
chapter.
   B.   Maintaining Prohibited: Notwithstanding any other provisions contained
in this code, it shall be unlawful for any person to own and/or possess,
harbor, keep or maintain a vicious dog or other animal within the city.
Whenever a prosecution for this offense is commenced, the dog or other vicious
animal so involved may not be redeemed, pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, while awaiting final decision of the court as to the disposition to be
made of such dog or other animal. (Ord., 10-17-1990)
   C.   Disposition Upon Trial: Upon a trial of any offense under this section,
the court may, upon conviction and in addition to the usual judgment of
conviction, order the animal control officer or other authorized personnel of
the city to put the dog or other animal to death or may order such other
disposition of the dog or other animal as will protect the inhabitants of the
city. (Ord., 10-17-1990; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   At Large; Authority To Destroy: Any vicious dog or other animal running
at large or loose within the premises of the owner or person having custody or
control of such dog or other animal where it is reasonably likely to endanger
the life or limb of or cause injury to any person lawfully entering such
premises, shall immediately be captured by the city's designated representative
and humanely destroyed. If the capture of such dog or animal cannot be
accomplished after a reasonable attempt or without serious risk of harm to the
person charged with the responsibility of the capture, such dog or other animal
may be destroyed by any law enforcement officer where found by the safest and
most appropriate means available. It shall be the duty of the owner or person
having custody or control of any vicious dog or other animal upon request to
assist in the capture of such dog or animal. (1980 Code § 13-254; amd. 2002
Code)
5-1-8: DOGS ATTACKING:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having charge,
care, custody or control of any dog to allow such dog to attack, chase or worry
any person, any domestic animal, any species of hoofed protected wildlife, or
domestic fowl. "Worry", as used in this section, shall mean to harass by
tearing, snapping, chasing, biting, shaking with the teeth or other similar
threatening actions.
   B.   Owner Liability: The owner in violation of subsection A of this section
shall be strictly liable for violation of this section. In addition to being
subject to prosecution under subsection A of this section, the owner of such
dog shall also be liable in damages to any person injured or to the owner of
any animal injured or destroyed thereby.
   C.   Defenses: The following shall be considered in mitigating the penalties
or damages or in dismissing the charge:
      1.   That the dog was properly confined on the premises;
      2.   That the dog was deliberately or maliciously provoked.
   D.   Dogs May Be Killed: Any person may kill a dog while it is committing
any of the acts specified in subsection A of this section or while such dog is
being pursued thereafter. (Ord., 10-17-1990)
5-1-9: CONTROL OF RABIES AND RABID ANIMALS:
   A.   Reporting Of Rabid Animals: Any person having knowledge of the
whereabouts of a dog or other animal known to have or suspected of having
rabies shall report the facts immediately to the city animal control officer.
The animal control officer shall likewise be notified of any person, dog or
other animal bitten by a rabid dog or other animal or dog or other animal
suspected of having rabies. It shall be the duty of any physician upon the
treatment of any person bitten by any dog or other animal to immediately report
the address and name of such person to the animal control officer. (1980 Code §
13-257A)
   B.   Biting Animal Quarantined: A dog or other animal which is known to have
bitten or otherwise injured any person so as to cause an abrasion of the skin,
or any suspected rabid dog or other animal, shall be placed in confinement
under observation at a veterinary hospital and shall not be killed or released
until at least fourteen (14) days after confinement. Upon the onset of symptoms
suggestive of rabies, such dog or other animal shall be killed. If a dog or
other animal dies or has been killed, its head shall be removed and packed in
wet ice and immediately taken to the state health laboratory and examined for
rabies. No person shall fail, refuse or neglect to allow the animal control
officer or other designated officer to make inspection or examination thereof
at any time during said period. No such dog or other animal shall be removed
from the place of quarantine without written permission from the animal control
officer and recommendation of a veterinarian. (1980 Code § 13-258)
   C.   Bitten Animal Disposition:
      1.   Any dog or other animal which is bitten by a known animal which is
suspected of being rabid or which has been in intimate contact with a rabid
animal shall be disposed of in such manner as prescribed by state law. (1980
Code § 13-257B)
      2.   Dogs, cats and ferrets that are currently vaccinated and are bitten
by rabid animals, shall be revaccinated immediately by a veterinarian and
confined and observed by the animal's owner for forty five (45) days. If any
illness suggestive of rabies develops in the animal, the owner shall report
immediately to the local health department and the animal shall be euthanized
by a veterinarian or animal control officer and the head shall be handled as
described in subsection B of this section. (2002 Code)
5-1-10: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
No cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats or swine shall be allowed to run at
large or to be herded, picketed or staked out upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the limits of this city, and all such animals so
found may be impounded. Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to
prevent any person from driving cows, horses, mules or other animals from
outside the city limits to any enclosure within the city limits or, from any
enclosure in the city to a place outside the city, or from one enclosure to
another within limits of the city. (1980 Code § 13-221)
5-1-11: DOGS AT LARGE; NUISANCE DOGS:
Within the corporate limits of the city, it shall be unlawful for any owner,
possessor or person who keeps any dog to permit the same to run at large
anywhere within the city limits, including, but not limited to, the private
premises of others or upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, school
yards or other unenclosed areas. The owner, keeper or possessor of any dog
running at large shall be deemed in violation of this section regardless of the
precautions taken to prevent the escape of the dog and to prohibit it from
running at large.
   A.   When Deemed At Large: A dog shall be deemed to be running at large when
off or away from the premises of the owner, possessor or keeper unless such dog
is in the immediate presence of the owner, possessor or keeper thereof or his
agent, servant or a member of his family and under the actual physical control
by means of a leash, cord or chain not in excess of ten feet (10') in length.
Procuring a license and tag shall not authorize the running at large of said
dog. The fact that such dog runs at large by reason of some other person's
actions, failure to act or by other event or circumstance shall not be a
defense to prosecution under this section. (Ord., 10-17-1990; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Public Nuisances: No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and
control of dogs to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance. Excessive,
continuous or untimely barking, molesting passersby, chasing vehicles,
attacking or destroying other domestic animals, trespassing upon public or
private property in such a manner as to damage property shall be deemed a
nuisance. (1980 Code § 13-251)
5-1-12: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Disposition Of Dead Animals; Violation: The owner of any animal or fowl
that has died or been killed shall remove or bury the carcass of such animal
within ten (10) hours after its death; provided, that no horse, cow, ox or
other animal shall be buried within the closely inhabited portions of this
city. A violation of this subsection is a class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 13-225; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Diseased Animals: It is a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to bring into the city for sale or have in
his possession with intent to sell or offer for sale, any animal which has a
communicable disease or which has been exposed to or which is liable to carry
infection from a communicable disease. (1980 Code § 13-226; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Sale Of Diseased Animals: It is a class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to bring into the city for sale or to sell,
or offer for sale any cattle, sheep, swine, fish, game, fowl or poultry which
is diseased, unsound and unwholesome or which for any other reason is unfit for
human food. (1980 Code § 13-227; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Female Dogs In Heat: The owner of a female dog shall cause such dog,
when in season, to be penned or enclosed in such a manner as to preclude other
dogs from attacking such female dog or being attracted to such female dog so as
to create a public nuisance. (1980 Code § 13-249)
   E.   Harboring Stray Dogs: It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or
keep within the city any lost or stray dog. Whenever any dog shall be found
which appears to be lost or strayed, it shall be the duty of the finder to
notify the animal control officer who shall impound the dog, and dispose of the
same as herein provided for under the provisions for the disposition of a dog
impounded or running at large contrary to the terms of this chapter. If there
shall be attached to such dog a registration tag for the then current fiscal
year, the officer shall notify the person to whom such license was issued at
the address given in the license. (1980 Code § 13-246; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Trespassing Animals And Fowl: It shall be unlawful for the owner or
person in charge of any dog or other animal or fowl to suffer or permit such
animals negligently or otherwise to break out of their enclosure or to
otherwise permit or suffer the same to roam or wander or be herded upon the
streets or upon the premises of other persons or to damage gardens, lawns or
other premises. Dairy animals, cattle and livestock being driven to and from
their pasture must be under the direct physical control of the owner at all
times so as to prevent damage to public or private property. (1980 Code § 13-
256)
   G.   Places Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to take or
permit any dog, whether loose or on a leash or in arms, in or about any
establishment or place of business where food products are sold or displayed,
including, but not limited to, restaurants, grocery stores, meat markets, food
or vegetable stores; and it shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dog
to enter or be in any place of worship during public services. (1980 Code § 13-
253)
5-1-13: IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Redemption, Sale Or Disposition Of Impounded Animals:
      1.   Any dog impounded as registered or unregistered dog may be redeemed
and taken from such pound by the owner thereof or by any authorized person by
exhibiting to the animal control officer or person in charge of the pound, a
certificate of registry as provided herein showing that the license fee for the
current year has been paid and upon paying the person in charge of the pound an
impounding fee in such amount as set by resolution of the city council and a
sum to be set by the city council for each and every day such dog shall have
been impounded to defer the costs incurred. In the case of an unregistered dog
which has not been vaccinated as specified in this chapter, such vaccination
shall be done and such dog shall be registered before being released from the
pound. All impounded dogs or other animals not redeemed within three (3) days
shall be sold for the best price obtainable at either public or private sale.
Before any dog is released to the buyers, such dog shall be registered as
herein provided and shall be vaccinated at the buyer's expense. All monies
received from such sales shall be made to the city. All dogs or other animals
that are not sold or redeemed in the required time shall be destroyed in a
humane manner or released for experimental purposes as provided by law.
      2.   Any impounded dog which in the judgment of the animal control
officer is suffering from any disease shall not be released except upon
approval of a qualified licensed veterinarian in accordance with state law.
(1980 Code § 13-247; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Unlawful Destruction: It shall be unlawful for the animal control
officer or other city officials to destroy, cause or allow to be destroyed any
dog or other animal impounded and registered with the animal control officer or
city until the expiration of the impounding limit of three (3) days except:
      1.   In the case the animal control officer impounds or receives a dog or
other animal injured or which has a contagious disease other than rabies and
upon recommendation of a qualified licensed veterinarian, he may destroy the
animal.
      2.   As provided by subsection 5-1-7D of this chapter, or as otherwise
provided by state law. (1980 Code § 13-252)
5-1-14: ENTRANCE UPON PREMISES:
In the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, any law enforcement
officer, the animal control officer, other designated city official or their
deputies are authorized to enter the premises of any person or entity to take
possession of any fierce, stray, dangerous or vicious dog or other animal, dogs
or other animals at large, or dogs or other animals which have committed an act
prohibited by city ordinance, when in fresh pursuit of such dog or other animal
at the time the dog or other animal goes onto private property, whether
registered or unregistered, and as otherwise provided in this chapter and by
law. (Ord., 10-17-1990; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1-15: KEEPING ANIMALS; ZONING APPLICABILITY:
The keeping of animals by any person, in Lewiston City, shall be governed by
the city zoning ordinance and other applicable laws. (Ord. 10-02, 10-25-2010)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-2-2: Public Intoxication
5-2-3: Synthetic Cannabinoids
5-2-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah criminal code (title 76), as amended, are hereby adopted
by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of
this chapter and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to
penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded hereunder. (2002 Code)
5-2-2: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
   A.   It is a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to be under the influence of an intoxicating
liquor, a controlled substance or of any substance having the property of
releasing toxic vapors, to a degree that the person may endanger himself or
another in a public place or in a private place where he unreasonably disturbs
another person.
   B.   A peace officer or magistrate may release from custody an individual
arrested under this section if he believes imprisonment is unnecessary for the
protection of the individual or another. (1980 Code § 13-321)
5-2-3: SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS:
   A.   Prohibited: Except as authorized by title 58 chapter 37 of the Utah
code, as amended, it is unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally:
      1.   Produce, manufacture, dispense, or
      2.   Possess with intent to produce, manufacture, or dispense, or
      3.   Distribute, or agree, consent, offer, or arrange to distribute, or
      4.   Possess with the intent to distribute, or
      5.   Possess or use synthetic cannabinoids, more specifically identified
as follows:
         a.   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole
Some trade or other names: JWH-018;
         b.   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole
Some trade or other names: JWH-073;
         c.   N-benzylpiperazine
Some trade or other names: BZP;
         d.   1-(3-[trifluoromethylphenyl]) piperazine
    Some trade or other names: TFMPP; or
         e.   Any structurally similar analogs of the substances listed above.
   B.   Penalty: A violation of this section is a class B misdemeanor. (Ord.
10-03, 10-20-2010)
ARTICLE A.  MINORS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Curfew
5-2A-2: Truancy
5-2A-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Hours Specified: No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall
be or remain upon any of the streets, alleys or public places or vacant lots at
night between the hours of one minute passed ten o'clock (10:01) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. following, unless such person is accompanied by a parent,
guardian or other person having legal custody of such minor person, or unless
the employment or lawful business of such minor makes it necessary to be upon
the streets, alleys or public places between such specified hours, in which
event such minor person shall obtain a permit from the designated city employee
or a representative of the city's law enforcement agency to be upon the
streets, alleys or public places during such hours. On any night when school,
civic or church functions are taking place, the hours of curfew shall be one
minute passed twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
following, in order to provide adequate time to attend such functions provided
for minor persons. Where a permit is required from the designated city employee
or a representative of the city's law enforcement agency under this subsection,
such permit shall be kept upon the person and it shall be unlawful to be upon
the streets, alleys or public places within such curfew hours without such
permit. (Ord. 97-2, 11-19-1997; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Responsibility Of Parents, Guardians: No person, guardian or other
person having legal charge or custody of any person under eighteen (18) years
of age shall allow or permit any such person or child, ward or other person
under such age, while in such legal custody, to go or be in or upon any of the
streets, alleys or public places when such going or being in or upon such
streets, alleys or public places would be a violation by such minor person of
any provision of subsection A of this section. (1980 Code § 13-313; amd. 2002
Code)
5-2A-2: TRUANCY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
COMPULSORY SCHOOL AGE MINOR: A person between the ages of six (6) and eighteen
(18) years of age who is not exempted, and must be attending public school or
regularly established private school during the school year of the district in
which the minor resides pursuant to Utah compulsory education requirements,
Utah Code Annotated section 53-11-101 through 53-11-106.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business, whether nonprofit or
operated for a profit to which the public is invited, including, but not
limited to, any place of amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
OPEN CAMPUS: When a compulsory school age minor is allowed by school officials
to leave school for lunch purposes.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes members
or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a corporation.
PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step- parent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
sidewalks, the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office
buildings, stores and shops.
REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a law enforcement
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the functions of any bodily member or organ.
TRUANCY HOURS: Those hours in which a compulsory school age minor should be
attending school in the district or jurisdiction in which the student attends
school. (Ord. 99-01, 6-16-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A compulsory school age minor commits an offense if he or she
remains in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the
city during truancy hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits or by insufficient control allows a compulsory school age
minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
within the city during truancy hours.
      3.   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a compulsory school age minor to remain
upon the premises of the establishment during truancy hours.
   C.   Defenses:
      1.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this section
that a minor was:
         a.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         b.   On an errand at the discretion of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         c.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate or intrastate travel
with the permission of the minor's parent or guardian;
         d.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
or to school from an employment activity, without any detour or stop; provided
the employment activity does not violate the state's compulsory education
requirements;
         e.   Involved in a legitimate emergency;
         f.   Following school policy regarding open campus for lunch;
         g.   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home or to school without any detour or stop, from an official
school, religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor; provided attendance at such activity is
with the permission of the minor's parent or guardian and/or is sponsored by
the school at which the minor would otherwise be required to attend during
truancy hours;
         h.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right to assembly; or
         i.   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      2.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B3 of this section
that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
sheriff's office, or the city office, that a minor was present on the premises
of the establishment during truancy hours and refused to leave.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
the law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason
for not being at school. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense is present.
   E.   Penalty: A person who violates a provision of this section is guilty of
a class C misdemeanor and a separate offense for each day or part during which
the violation is committed, continued or permitted. Each offense, upon
conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 99-01, 6-16-1999)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-2: Traffic Control
6-1-3: Parking Regulations; Generally
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah traffic code (or Utah motor vehicle act) (title 41), as
amended, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall
be considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation shall subject
the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded
hereunder. (2002 Code)
6-1-2: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Prima Facie Speed; Designated Streets:
      1.   Streets With Signs: When appropriate street signs giving notice of
the maximum permitted speed thereon are erected, the prima facie speed limits
designated upon said signs shall apply to the appropriate streets or portions
of streets so posted.
      2.   Streets Not Posted: Unless otherwise provided in this chapter or in
any other ordinance of the city, the prima facie speed limits on the streets of
the city shall be as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 41-6-46, as
amended. (1980 Code § 11-323; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Angle Parking: When appropriate traffic control or regulatory signs are
posted permitting angle parking, angle parking shall be permitted on the
streets or parts of streets so posted at the angle designated by the sign.
(1980 Code § 11-324)
6-1-3: PARKING REGULATIONS; GENERALLY:
   A.   Signs; Erection: The city council may authorize or direct any person
employed by the city to erect or install any sign or traffic control device
required to enforce the provisions of this section. (1980 Code § 11-342)
   B.   Blocking Streets Or Highways: In addition to the parking provisions
contained in the Utah traffic code, as adopted by the city, it shall be a class
C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to: (1980 Code § 11-341; amd. 2002 Code)
      1.   Remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway in such a
manner as to obstruct the free passage of vehicular or pedestrian traffic
thereon.
      2.   Wilfully remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway
in such manner for more than one minute after being requested to move by any
police officer.
      3.   Wilfully remain on such street or highway in such manner as to
obstruct the free passage of any person or vehicle into or out of any property
abutting upon the street or highway or any property having access to such
street or highway. (1980 Code § 11-341)
   C.   Unlawful Parking:
      1.   Parking At Curb: No motor vehicle shall be parked with the left side
of the vehicle next to the curb, except on one-way streets. It shall be
unlawful to stand or park any motor vehicle in a street other than parallel
with the curb and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle within twelve
inches (12") of the regularly established curb line, except on those streets
which have been marked for angle parking; then vehicles shall be parked at the
angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
      2.   Advertising "For Sale" Or To Sell Merchandise From: It shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle on any street for the purpose of displaying it for
sale, or to park any vehicle from which merchandise is peddled on any business
street.
      3.   Loading Zone: When so posted, it shall be unlawful for the driver of
a passenger vehicle to stand or park such vehicle for a period of time longer
than is permitted by the posted sign for the loading or unloading of
passengers, or for the driver to stand or park any freight carrying motor
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary to load, unload and
deliver materials in any place designated as a loading zone and marked as such.
      4.   Posted Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person, except
physicians on emergency calls or designated emergency vehicles, when properly
posted, to park any motor vehicle on any street in violation of the posted
restrictions.
      5.   Alleys: No person shall park a motor vehicle within an alley in such
manner or under such conditions as to leave less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway available for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position
as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
      6.   Cabstands; Bus Stands: No motor vehicle other than a licensed
taxicab shall be parked in any area designated by ordinance as a taxicab stand
and no vehicle other than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a
bus loading zone. (1980 Code § 11-344)
      7.   Forty Eight Hour Time Limit; Impoundment: It shall be an infraction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to park or leave standing on any public
road, street, alley or city property any motor vehicle for forty eight (48) or
more consecutive hours, and any vehicle so parked or left standing may be
impounded or removed by the city law enforcement officials. For purposes of
impoundment and removal, the city law enforcement officials may impound and
remove any motor vehicle which reasonably appears to have remained unmoved for
forty eight (48) consecutive hours. The cost of impoundment and removal shall
be charged to the owner or any person who claims the impounded motor vehicle.
(1980 Code § 11-344; amd. 2002 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Public Works Department
7-1-2: Removal Of Snow
7-1-3: Obstructions In Streets
7-1-4: Openings In Streets; Doors Obstructing
7-1-5: Discharge Of Water
7-1-6: Sidewalk Regulations
7-1-1: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created a public works department, which
shall have general supervision of streets, sidewalks, bridges and other public
ways.
   B.   Public Works Director: The department shall be under the direction and
control of the public works director. (1980 Code § 11-311; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Powers And Duties: The public works department shall:
      1.   Have charge of the construction, maintenance and repair of streets,
sidewalks, bridges, curbs, gutters, culverts, drains, waterways and other
public ways. It shall have control of all waters flowing on the streets,
sidewalks and public ways, whether originating from storm, flood, drainage or
irrigation waters.
      2.   Keep a record of and promptly investigate all complaints of
defective streets, culverts, drains, ditches, sidewalks and other public ways
and, when proper, repair, replace or take such action as deemed best, and shall
record the action taken on each complaint.
      3.   Enforce the provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances
relating to the maintenance and use of streets, culverts, drains, ditches,
waterways, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and other public ways.
      4.   Repair, or cause to be repaired, all defects coming to the public
works department's attention and take reasonable precautions to protect the
public from injuries due to such defects pending their repair. (1980 Code § 11-
312; amd. 2002 Code)
7-1-2: REMOVAL OF SNOW:
It shall be unlawful for any person removing snow from the sidewalk to deposit
snow, dirt, leaves or any other material in the gutter so as to clog or prevent
the free flow of water therein. (1980 Code § 11-361)
7-1-3: OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to place or permit to be placed upon or in the sidewalk, parking area,
gutter or on the half of the street next to such premises:
   A.   Refuse: Any broken ware, glass, filth, rubbish, sweepings, refuse
matter, ice, snow, water, garbage, ashes, tin cans or other like substances.
   B.   Building Materials: Any wagons, lumber, wood boxes, fencing, building
material, dead trees, tree stumps, merchandise or other thing which shall
obstruct such public street, gutter, parking area or sidewalk, or any part
thereof, or the passage over and upon the same, or any part thereof, except as
expressly authorized by ordinance, without the permission of the city council
first had and obtained.
   C.   Permanent Or Temporary Structures: Any permanent or temporary
structure, mechanism, device, vehicle or other thing of any kind or character,
except trees planted pursuant to the provisions of applicable ordinances. (1980
Code § 11-362)
7-1-4: OPENINGS IN STREETS; DOORS OBSTRUCTING:
   A.   Cellars: It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building
having a cellar which opens upon any street or sidewalk to fail to keep the
door or other covering in good repair and safe for the passage of the customary
traffic on the street or sidewalk. If the owner or occupant of any such
building shall neglect or refuse to repair properly any such door or covering
within twenty four (24) hours after notice from the public works director to do
so, the director shall forthwith cause such repairs to be made at the expense
of the owner or occupant.
   B.   Coal Holes: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain coal holes or
other openings in streets or sidewalks, except with the special permission of
the city council, and under the direction and supervision of the public works
director. (1980 Code § 11-363; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Doors: It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having the control
or management of any alley, road or passageway to construct or hang gates or
doors to such alley, road or passageway so that the gates or doors thereto,
when open, shall project outwardly more than two feet (2') over or upon the
sidewalk beyond the property line. (1980 Code § 11-364)
7-1-5: DISCHARGE OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to fail, refuse or neglect to prevent water from the roof or eaves of
any house, building or other structure, or from any other source under the
control of such person, to be discharged upon the surface of any sidewalk.
(1980 Code § 11-365)
7-1-6: SIDEWALK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Driving Or Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or
park a self-propelled vehicle or lead, drive or ride any animal upon any
sidewalk, except across a sidewalk at established crossings. (1980 Code § 11-
366)
   B.   Businesses To Keep Clean: It shall be unlawful for any owners or
occupants of any place of business to refuse, neglect or fail to cause the
sidewalk abutting thereon to be swept or cleaned each morning before the hour
of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (1980 Code § 11-367)
   C.   Placing Goods For Sale Or Show: No goods, wares or merchandise shall be
placed, maintained or permitted for sale or show in or on any parking area,
street or sidewalk beyond two feet (2') from the front line of the lot, without
first obtaining the written approval of the city council. Such approval shall
be granted only when such sale or show shall be a promotional activity not
exceeding forty eight (48) hours and when participated in by a majority of
firms seeking approval in their business areas. The city council's written
approval shall specifically provide that no goods, wares or merchandise shall
be placed in such a manner as to leave less than a six foot (6') passageway for
pedestrians. (1980 Code § 11-368)
   D.   Placing Goods For Receipt Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, or suffer to be placed or kept upon any sidewalk, any goods,
wares or merchandise which he may be receiving or delivering, without leaving a
foot passageway upon such sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for any person
receiving or delivering such goods, wares or merchandise to suffer the same to
be or remain on such sidewalk for a longer period than two (2) hours. (1980
Code § 11-369)
   E.   Playing: Every person who obstructs the sidewalk or street by playing
any game or engaging in any activity which obstructs the free travel thereon is
guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 11-370; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Congregating: It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to congregate about or upon any sidewalks,
stairway, doorway, window or in front of any business or dwelling house,
theater, lecture room, church or elsewhere and by so doing to obstruct or
interfere with the free passage of persons entering, leaving or occupying such
building or premises. (1980 Code § 11-371; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Inspection
7-2-2: Conform To Established Specifications
7-2-3: Changing Existing Construction
7-2-4: Building Materials In Street; Permit
7-2-5: Mixing Concrete On Paved Streets Or Sidewalks; Permit
7-2-6: Overflowing Of Water
7-2-7: Irrigation Ditches
7-2-8: Removal Of Earth
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION:
   A.   Required: No person, either as owner, agent, servant, contractor or
employee, shall construct any permanent sidewalk for public use without first
obtaining from the public works director a permit to do so. The permit shall
specify that the sidewalk be constructed of cement, the character and quality
of the cement, the consistent parts of the mixture, and the thickness of the
sidewalk.
   B.   Unlawful Violation Of Specifications: It shall be unlawful to construct
a sidewalk in violation of the specifications given by a proper city official.
   C.   Inspection: All sidewalks shall be inspected by the public works
director or his duly authorized representative. (1980 Code § 11-352; amd. 2002
Code)
7-2-2: CONFORM TO ESTABLISHED SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, agent, servant, contractor
or employee to construct a street or sidewalk which does not conform to
specifications established by the city engineer or other authorized
representative of the city unless special permission to deviate from such
specification is first obtained from the city council. (1980 Code § 11-351)
7-2-3: CHANGING EXISTING CONSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a driveway across a sidewalk
or cut or change the construction of sidewalk, curb or gutter without first
making written application and obtaining from the public works director a
permit to do so. The acceptance of such permit shall be deemed an agreement on
the part of such person to construct said driveway in accordance with
specifications furnished by the city. (1980 Code § 11-353; amd. 2002 Code)
7-2-4: BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET; PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or use any portion of the public
streets when erecting or repairing any building upon land abutting thereon,
without first making application to and receiving from the public works
director a permit for the occupation or use of such portions of streets for
such periods of time and under such limitations and restrictions as may be
required by the city council. Any such permit may be revoked by the city
council at any time when the holder thereof fails to comply with any rule or
regulation under which it is granted, or when, in the opinion of the city
council, the public interest requires such revocation. (1980 Code § 11-354;
amd. 2002 Code)
7-2-5: MIXING CONCRETE ON PAVED STREETS OR SIDEWALKS; PERMIT:
Unless a permit from the public works director has been obtained, it shall be
unlawful to:
   A.   Place, Pile Or Permit: Place or pile or permit to be placed or piled,
any sand, gravel, lime, cement, mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance
or mixture, or allow the same to remain on any portion of any paved street or
sidewalk.
   B.   Make, Mix Or Permit: Make or mix or permit to be made or mixed any
mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance or mixture on any portion of
any paved street or sidewalk. (1980 Code § 11-355; amd. 2002 Code)
7-2-6: OVERFLOWING OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow water to overflow from any ditch,
canal, well or irrigation stream onto the streets, sidewalks or property of the
city. (1980 Code § 11-356)
7-2-7: IRRIGATION DITCHES:
All owners or occupants of lots in the city who require water from a ditch for
irrigation or other purposes shall dig ditches, erect flumes, lay pipes and
install culverts, as needed, and maintain the same to convey water under
sidewalks to or from their respective lots. All culverts, ditches, pipes and
flumes conveying water under sidewalks shall meet such reasonable standards and
specifications as may be established by the public works director. (1980 Code §
11-357; amd. 2002 Code)
7-2-8: REMOVAL OF EARTH:
No person shall dig, cut or remove any sod or earth from any street or other
public place without a permit from the public works director. (1980 Code § 11-
358; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Purpose
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Excavation Conditional Use Permit Required
7-3-4: Additional Information Required With Conditional Use Permit Application
7-3-5: Revocation Or Modification Of An Excavation Conditional Use Permit
7-3-6: Transfer To Successor Operator
7-3-7: Appeals To The City Council
7-3-8: Filing Of An Annual Progress Report
7-3-9: Operational Requirements
7-3-10: Rehabilitation Requirements
7-3-11: Provision Of Surety
7-3-12: Exceptions
7-3-13: Enforcement; Public Works Director Authority
7-3-14: Inspection And Stop Work Orders
7-3-15: Violation
7-3-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the purpose and object of this chapter to establish reasonable
and uniform limitations, safeguards and controls on excavation within the city.
These provisions are deemed necessary in the public interest to effect
practices which will provide protection of the tax base, provide for the
economical use of vital materials necessary for our economy and give due
consideration to the present and future use of land in the interest of
promoting the public health, comfort, safety, community character and general
welfare.
   B.   Any necessary alterations to the surface of land within the city which
involves excavation on said land should be done in such a way as to minimize
undesirable effects on surrounding or adjacent land. Excavated land should be
reclaimed and rehabilitated so as to prevent conditions detrimental to the
general health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city and to provide
for the subsequent use of the excavated land. Reclamation and rehabilitation
requirements must be adapted to the diversity of the topography, chemical,
climatic, biologic, geologic, economic and social conditions of the area where
the excavation takes place. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
EXCAVATION INCLUDING LAND LEVELING AND TOPSOIL MINING: For the purposes of this
chapter, excavation shall mean the removal of rock, sand, gravel, clay,
topsoil, and any other soil by digging, leveling, scraping, blasting or any
other process, together with all other types of mining or excavation operations
where material is removed from the earth. The provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to the removal of sod, provided such removal is to a depth not in
excess of four inches (4"), per crop removal, and provided such removal will
not adversely affect the drainage, stability and/or vegetation of the area.
This chapter shall not apply to ditching and land leveling for agricultural or
recreational uses, or for site preparations for building a structure, subject
to the following: Land leveling for the purposes of this chapter may include
the removal of the resources referenced above, but any land leveling or
excavation for the purposes of this chapter which exceeds thirty (30) cubic
yards per acre, or a proportionally equivalent amount for fractional acreage,
shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter. This chapter shall not
apply to removal or other movement of rock, sand, gravel, clay, topsoil or any
other soil as done in the process of developing an approved subdivision.
LAND: The surface and subsurface of an area within the incorporated areas of
the city where excavation operations are being or will be conducted, including,
but not limited to: on site private ways, roads, the excavation site itself,
exploration sites, drill sites or working, parking, storage areas; areas in
which structures, facilities, equipment, machines, tools or other materials or
property which result from, or are used in such operations, are situated.
OFF SITE: The land areas that are outside or beyond the boundaries of the on
site land which is owned or controlled by the owner or operator of the on site
land on or within which excavation operations are being or will be conducted.
ON SITE: The land on or within the boundaries of which excavation operations
are or will be conducted by the owner or operator thereof.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership, receiver,
trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, fiduciary, agent or other legally
existing entity, organization or representative of any kind, either public or
private, owning, controlling or managing excavation operations or proposed
excavation operations.
OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or other legally
existing entity, organization or representative of any kind, either public or
private, owning, controlling or managing the land(s) employed in excavation
operations or proposed excavation operations.
PUBLIC ROAD: Any highway, road, street, alley, lane, court, place, viaduct,
tunnel, culvert or bridge laid out or erected as such by the public, or
dedicated or abandoned to the public, or made such in an action for the
partition of real property, and includes the entire areas within the right-of-
way or public road.
REHABILITATION: Actions performed during and after excavation operations to
shape, stabilize, revegetate or otherwise treat the land affected in order to
achieve a safe, stable, ecological condition. The excavated lands will be
rehabilitated to a usable condition which is readily adaptable to alternate
land uses and creates no danger to public safety. These rehabilitated or
reclaimed land areas will be consistent with the City Land Use Plan in the
immediate areas. The rehabilitation process may extend to affected lands
surrounding the excavated lands and may require backfilling, grading,
resoiling, revegetation, soil compaction, stabilization and other measures.
(Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-3: EXCAVATION CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
No excavation, including land leveling and topsoil mining, shall be permitted
on any land in the City unless authorized under a "conditional use permit"
("excavation conditional use permit", hereafter) issued to the owner and/or
operator of the property in accordance with the procedures set forth in title
10, chapter 13 of this Code. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-4: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REQUIRED WITH CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION:
In order to ensure that the land area of the proposed excavation is reasonable
for that purpose and to ensure rehabilitation of the land area to a state that
enables meaningful use, ensures public safety and maintains or restores
acceptable aesthetic conditions, the owner or operator shall, prior to
commencement of any phase of operation, submit to the City Planning Commission,
as part of the excavation conditional use permit application procedure, an
excavation and rehabilitation plan which addresses the following, except for
items which are, for due cause, waived or modified by the Planning Commission
as being unnecessary for a particular application:
   A.   General Information: The following shall be provided: the name of the
property owner(s), lessee(s), operator(s), agent for service of process or
notice(s), address and/or location of property and legal description.
   B.   Preexcavation Inventory And Analysis: A preexcavation inventory and
analysis, both off site and on site, shall be performed by the applicant
containing the following information:
      1.   A regional vicinity analysis describing other land uses surrounding
the site, the possible impacts of the proposed excavation on surrounding land
and the methods to be employed to mitigate any potentially negative effects;
and
      2.   A description of the regional haulage routes to be employed on
public and private roads.
      3.   Other items reasonably determined necessary by the planning
commission.
   C.   Presite Inventory And Analysis: The applicant shall conduct a presite
inventory and analysis to include:
      1.   A topographic map of the area (at a scale of 1 inch equals 200 feet)
to a maximum contour interval of five feet (5'), and extending at least five
hundred feet (500') beyond the proposed excavation site;
      2.   A description of the visual characteristics, with particular concern
given to the use of natural topography and vegetation, to shield on site
operations from nearby properties, roadways and the general public;
      3.   A soils survey, to include a soils profile; and
      4.   Other items reasonably determined necessary by the planning
commission.
   D.   Excavation Operations Plan: The application shall provide an excavation
operations plan which describes the following:
      1.   Proposed starting date and the anticipated period of operation, and
also including anticipated days of the week and hours of the day for
operations;
      2.   Planned phases of excavation;
      3.   Anticipated amount of material to be removed during each phase;
      4.   Number, type and kinds of machinery and equipment to be used;
      5.   Operational processes, including crushing, stockpiling, milling,
etc.;
      6.   The water to be used in operations, its source, control and
disposal;
      7.   Electrical power requirements, source and control;
      8.   Accessory facilities, such as scales and buildings;
      9.   Sanitary facilities and disposal system;
      10.   Wind and air movement patterns with a description of techniques
used to control dust and noise;
      11.   Transportation routes on and off site;
      12.   Runoff water control and detention;
      13.   Depiction of phases and location of all facilities, stockpiles,
transportation routes, detention basin(s), and water and power sources on the
topographic map referred to above or other suitable map;
      14.   Any economic or adverse effects on the surrounding area and steps
taken to mitigate their impact, such as dust and vibration control and noise
abatement;
      15.   Detailed analysis and description of noise levels (expressed in
decibels) expected from proposed operations;
      16.   Cross sections showing existing surfaces versus proposed excavation
at one hundred foot (100') intervals across the site; cross sections should be
drawn parallel to slope;
      17.   To the extent not already shown, how the operations will comply
with the requirements of section
7-3-9, "Operational Requirements", of this chapter; and
      18.   Operator's safety plan and other items reasonably determined
necessary by the planning commission.
   E.   Rehabilitation Plan: The applicant shall provide a rehabilitation plan
with the use of maps, imagery and renderings (at a scale of 1 inch equals 200
feet) extending five hundred feet (500') beyond the legal description of the
site area with a maximum contour interval of five feet (5') which includes at
least the following:
      1.   A grading plan drawn and certified by a licensed engineer or land
surveyor indicating the areas to be excavated, the proposed finished grades,
and stormwater drainage patterns;
      2.   A description of the methods and plans to be employed for
rehabilitation of the site during and after the excavation operations;
      3.   A description of the landscape plan to include the installation of
topsoil, planting schedule, specifications for plant applications, mulching,
plant materials, and type of irrigation to be used;
      4.   A description of the hydrologic environment of the rehabilitated
site to include a map illustrating water drainage areas such as lakes, springs,
ponds, streams, wells, pipelines, culverts, ditches, canals;
      5.   A description of all permanent roads and other manmade structures
which are to remain after rehabilitation;
      6.   Cross sections shall be taken in the excavation site in areas of
greatest material displacement. The number of cross sections required shall be
dependent on the size and topography of the excavation site;
      7.   To the extent not already shown, compliance with section
7-3-10, "Rehabilitation Requirements", of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of surety; and
      9.   Other items reasonably determined necessary by the Planning
Commission.
   F.   Addendum: (To be completed prior to final issuance of the excavation
conditional use permit.) Final conditions or limitations imposed by the
Planning Commission or City Council.
   G.   Authorization Of Permit: All operation and rehabilitation maps and
plans shall include signature blocks for the owner and operator, City Engineer
and Mayor. The referenced signatures shall be obtained before an excavation
conditional use permit shall be authorized. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-5: REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF AN EXCAVATION CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Subject To Revocation Or Modification: Any excavation
conditional use permit issued shall be subject to revocation or modification by
the Planning Commission as set forth in title 10, chapter 13 of this Code.
   B.   Modification Of The Excavation Conditional Use Permit Plans:
Modification of the excavation conditional use permit plans may be initiated
either by the Planning Commission or by the permittee where minor revisions are
sought for any portion of the approved permit. Consideration of such revisions
need not require a public hearing provided that, in the judgment of the
Planning Commission, the proposed revisions would not constitute significant
changes, and provided also that the Planning Commission has not determined, or
the permittee has not expressly requested, that a public hearing be held. (Ord.
02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-6: TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR OPERATOR:
Whenever an owner/operator succeeds to the interest of another owner/operator
by sale, assignment, lease or other means, the Planning Commission may release
the first owner/operator from his responsibilities under his approved plans as
described above, including surety, provided the successor owner/operator
assumes all of the responsibilities of the former owner/operator to the
satisfaction of the Planning Commission under the approved excavation
conditional use permit and the posting of surety. Such assumption of
responsibilities shall always be done in writing. Upon satisfactory assumption
of such responsibilities by the successor owner/operator, under conditions
approved by the Planning Commission, the responsibility of the total excavation
site and permit shall be transferred to the successor owner/operator. (Ord. 02-
02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-7: APPEALS TO THE CITY COUNCIL:
Appeals from any decision of the Planning Commission with respect to an
excavation conditional use permit shall be directed to the City Council in the
manner prescribed in title 10, chapter 13 of this Code. Upon the hearing of
such appeal, the City Council may, by motion, affirm, reverse or modify in
whole or in part any determination of the Planning Commission, also as provided
by title 10, chapter 13 of this Code. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-8: FILING OF AN ANNUAL PROGRESS REPORT:
At the end of each calendar year, unless waived by the Planning Commission for
due cause, each operator conducting excavation operations shall file an
operations and progress report with the Planning Commission. The report will
summarize activities in fulfillment of the requirements for the excavation
operation and rehabilitation in conformance with the rehabilitation plan
previously submitted. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-9: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
All excavation operations conducted or carried on within the city are subject
to the following limitations, restrictions and controls:
   A.   Dust, Noise, Vibration, Smoke, Lights And Odor: All equipment and
machinery used on the site and in transportation of products through the city
shall be constructed, maintained and operated in such a manner as to minimize
the impact of dust, noise, vibration, smoke, welding lights and other lights,
odor and all other negative or undesirable impacts on the city, and
particularly on adjacent and surrounding properties. Soil berming, landscaping
and other techniques shall be used to accomplish the objective of reducing the
impact of smoke, any kind of lights, noise and vibration on adjacent property,
and to control loose dirt and dust such that it remains on the operation site.
All state and federal emission guidelines and regulations must be adhered to.
Access and haulage roads shall be maintained in a dust free condition by
surfacing or other treatment as approved by the city engineer or public works
director, and fugitive dust shall be controlled in all other operational areas
of the excavation site.
   B.   Operation Boundaries: To protect neighboring residents and properties
from the potentially adverse effects of dust, noise, vibration, smoke, welding
and other lights, odors, soil erosion, and all other negative or undesirable
impacts, all excavation operations are prohibited within two hundred feet
(200') of an adjacent residential zone boundary or a subdivision or within
fifty feet (50') of a public highway or street, except for accessory roads.
Rock crushing operations shall not be conducted within six hundred feet (600')
of adjacent properties, if allowed at all.
   C.   Fencing And Barriers: Fencing or other suitable barriers shall be
created and maintained on or around the boundary of the excavation site or on
or around portions of the site where such fencing is practicable and necessary
because of dangerous conditions, whether existing or created by the excavation,
as determined by the city engineer or public works director. Fencing or
barriers may also be required, at the option of the planning commission, to
provide screening of the excavation operation from public view and to enhance
the general aesthetics of the area. Fencing, monuments or other means of
identification shall be placed and maintained around the perimeter of the
excavation site so as to enable reasonable identification of the property line
separating the excavation property from adjoining landowners.
   D.   Landscaping: The planting of trees, shrubs or other appropriate
landscaping, or the placement of berms or structures, shall be required where
natural conditions make such feasible and practical in order to provide a dust
or sound barrier, to screen excavation from public view, to enhance the general
appearance, and to minimize the damaging effect of such operations to the
aesthetics and character of the surrounding area. Vegetative material shall be
planted together with necessary topsoil as per a schedule approved in the
granting of the excavation conditional use permit, and shall be maintained in a
healthy, growing condition.
   E.   Washing Operations: The washing of sand and gravel, when permitted,
shall be done so as to prevent the discharge of wastewater directly into
adjacent natural watercourses or onto any public or private roads or any
private property without the written consent of the property owner.
   F.   Runoff Water Detention: The operator or owner shall, on determination
by the city engineer, be required to construct runoff water detention
facilities to prevent damage to neighboring property and structures and for
protection of the residents and property below the site. A stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) shall be prepared and submitted in accordance with the
national pollution discharge elimination system (NPDES) requirements, and all
necessary federal, state and local permits shall be obtained.
   G.   Truck Debris And Covering: Prior to entry onto asphalt roadways from
dirt surfaces, trucks must meet all Utah code and regulation requirements for
the covering of loads and all precautions necessary must be taken to prevent
contamination of public highways by the depositing of dust, mud, soil, gravel
and all other debris on any public highway.
   H.   Load Limits: All trucks, equipment and machinery operating on public or
city streets and roads shall comply strictly with the city, county and state
road limitations setting forth allowable vehicle weight limits, heights and
lengths, and all vehicles must meet state safety requirements; and, where
necessary, flagging and other traffic controls shall be implemented to preserve
public safety.
   I.   Hours Of Operation: Excavation operations and transport of materials to
and from the site, except for the maintenance and repair of vehicles and
equipment, which does not have a negative or unacceptable impact on surrounding
or adjacent property owners, shall take place between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on any day, except as provided
herein. No truck used in hauling operations will be allowed into the site
before the specified time or permitted to leave the site loaded with materials
from the site after the specified time. No excavation operations shall take
place on Sundays or on any legal City, State or Federal holidays. During
periods of national or unusual emergency or to ensure safety of citizens, the
time and hours of operation may be altered at the discretion of the City
Council. In addition, the City Council may, consistent with the intent of these
regulations, modify the provisions relative to permitted hours of operation for
any excavation area, after notice to interested parties and the holding of a
hearing on the proposed modification. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
   J.   Restricted Or Related Manufacturing Operations: The manufacture of
concrete building blocks or other similar blocks, the production or manufacture
of lime products, the production of ready mixed concrete, the production of
asphalt mixes, rock crushing and screening operations, and any similar
production or manufacturing processes that might be related to the excavation
operation shall not be permitted, except as otherwise provided in the Municipal
land use ordinance. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002; amd. Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
   K.   Permits; Compliance With Laws: Compliance with all Federal, State and
local laws relating to excavation operations shall be achieved and all required
permits obtained, including a business license from the City.
   L.   Cessation Of Operations: Within one year after the cessation of
operations, all temporary structures (except fences), equipment, rock piles,
rubble heaps or other debris shall be removed or backfilled into the excavation
so as to leave the site in neat and orderly condition as determined by the City
Engineer or Public Works Director and as provided below. This includes the
rehabilitation of all excavated areas.
   M.   Blasting: Any excavation by blasting shall only be allowed by separate
application to and approval by the City Council, after a public hearing for
which prior notice was given.
   N.   Safety Of Operations: Any excavation operation shall be conducted in a
safe manner. To protect against collapse, no cuts, banks, nor any other open
slopes shall be left on the premises past the end of a working day or left
unattended when such slopes are more steep than one to one (1:1). The City's
Engineer or Public Works Director may require a less steep slope in any
operation if he/she determines that, due to the nature of the soils being
excavated, a less steep slope ought to be maintained in order to ensure proper
safety. Other applicable State and Federal occupational health and safety
requirements must also be met. The owner of the land as well as any contractor
conducting the excavation operation shall be jointly responsible for compliance
with safety requirements. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-10: REHABILITATION REQUIREMENTS:
In order to ensure that the excavated area shall be rehabilitated to a
condition of practical usefulness and reasonable physical attractiveness within
a reasonable amount of time, to prevent environmental degradation to the
ecologic and hydrologic regimes caused by excavation, and to prevent present
and future hazards to public safety and welfare, all owners and/or operators of
excavation operations shall adhere to a rehabilitation plan approved by the
Planning Commission, which shall include the following, except for items which
are, for due cause, waived or modified by the Planning Commission as being
unnecessary for a particular excavation site:
   A.   Progressive Rehabilitation: The owner or operator shall, at the option
of the Planning Commission, submit a plan for progressive rehabilitation,
meaning that rehabilitation will commence and be carried on during excavation
operations. When the excavation of an area of two (2) acres or less is
completed per the excavation plan, that area shall be rehabilitated.
Rehabilitation shall proceed as soon as practicable after completion of a
phase, or site if there are no phases, as set forth in the approved excavation
and rehabilitation plan, or as determined by the City Engineer or Public Works
Director.
   B.   Backfilling: Where backfilling is required, the excavated area shall be
graded and backfilled with uncontaminated native materials or topsoil only.
This backfill must be of such material as to support vegetation and grass
growth. The graded or backfilled area shall not be contoured so that it will
collect and permit stagnant water to remain thereon. Peaks and depressions in
the excavation area shall be reduced to a surface which will result in level or
gently sloping topography in substantial conformity to the land area
immediately surrounding the excavation site and which will minimize the
possibility of erosion. In rehabilitation involving material that is of loose
or friable nature, no slope shall be left that exceeds thirty degrees (30°) or
the normal angle of repose of the material involved, whichever is less.
   C.   Grading, Stockpiling, Seeding, Phases, Etc.: Excavations shall be
planned so as to progressively develop the proposed final landforms by grading
and by stockpiling topsoil and overburdened materials in areas designated for
future landforms or in excavations where the material will be spread over the
excavation floor where no future excavation is anticipated. Such areas are to
be covered with topsoil, seeded and planted immediately after grading is
completed or within appropriate planting seasons, but in any case, the grading
and planting shall be complete within one year. The rehabilitation plan shall
contain a description of the phased rehabilitation process throughout the
anticipated life of the excavation.
   D.   Final Rehabilitation: Final rehabilitation shall begin immediately for
any site where operations authorized under an excavation conditional use permit
have ceased for a period of at least one year, or otherwise terminated. The
final rehabilitation shall conform to the plan approved (including approved
modifications) in the excavation conditional use permit. All rehabilitation
plans shall conform at least to the below listed minimum standards and other
requirements listed elsewhere in this chapter, as reasonably determined by the
planning commission; provided, however, that the planning commission or city
council may require more stringent standards where special hazards exist in
order to protect the health, safety or general welfare of the public and to
prevent injury to property or improvements:
      1.   Grading: Slopes, overburdened stockpiles and abandoned soil piles
shall be graded and smoothed so as to control erosion and prevent the creation
of potentially dangerous areas in accordance with the direction of the city
engineer or public works director.
      2.   Water Filled Areas: All excavations which create standing water or
ponds shall be filled with native materials. This requirement shall not apply,
however, to any water filled excavations scheduled to become an integral part
of the final rehabilitation plan. The rehabilitation of these areas shall be
done in such a manner that the groundwater is not polluted. Fill material shall
be porous to allow for water dispersion unless otherwise specified in the
rehabilitation plan.
      3.   Landscaping: Unless inconsistent with the final proposed use of the
rehabilitated land, the excavated areas and all other disturbed areas shall be
replanted and maintained with trees, shrubs, grasses or other vegetative ground
cover, preferably native to the area, in order to minimize erosion and to
restore the land to a natural appearance, or to an appearance previously
approved by the city council.
      4.   Removal Of Buildings And Equipment: As soon as excavation has been
permanently terminated, all buildings and equipment (including electrical
conduits) used in the administration of the operations shall be removed unless
deemed necessary to the approved final use of the rehabilitated site.
      5.   Excavation Closer Than Two Hundred Feet To Property Line: In the
final year of excavation, the operation may, as part of the rehabilitation
project, excavate closer than two hundred feet (200') to any property lines,
but only upon a showing of compelling mutual good and the approval of the
planning commission and city council.
   E.   Rehabilitation Verification: At the conclusion of excavation operations
and rehabilitation of the excavation site, the city engineer or public works
director shall present to the planning commission a statement verifying the
permit area has been rehabilitated in compliance with the requirements of the
excavation ordinance and excavation and rehabilitation plan previously
submitted in compliance with this chapter. The planning commission shall
certify to the city council that all requirements of this chapter have been
met. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-11: PROVISION OF SURETY:
   A.   Provision Of Surety Before Operations Begin: After receiving
notification that the application for an excavation conditional use permit has
been approved, but prior to commencement of such operation, the operator shall
provide surety to the city, in a form and amount to be fixed by the city
council, as recommended by the city engineer, sufficient to secure the
performance of the rehabilitation agreement.
   B.   Amount Of Surety: In determining the amount of surety to be provided,
the city engineer shall consider factual information as to the magnitude, type
and costs of approved rehabilitation activities planned for the land affected
and the nature, extent and duration of operations under the excavation and
rehabilitation plan. The city engineer shall determine the amount of the surety
reasonably related thereto, to protect the city and ensure compliance with the
requirements of the excavation conditional use permit; however, the amount of
the surety shall not exceed one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
estimated cost of rehabilitating the excavation. The surety shall be
periodically reviewed to ensure that the amount of the surety is capable of
insuring adequate rehabilitation.
   C.   Form Of Surety: In determining the form of surety to be provided, the
city council shall approve a method that is consistent with the requirements of
this chapter, which may be one or a combination of corporate surety bond, land,
cash, letter of credit or other deposited securities to which the city shall
have immediate access in the event the owner/operator fails to or refuses to
carry out and complete the necessary and required rehabilitation.
   D.   Releases Of Surety: The liability under surety provisions shall
continue until such time as released as to part, or in its entirety, by the
city council upon completion of the required rehabilitation. Partial releases
may be allowed within the discretion of the city council.
   E.   Forfeiture Of Surety: If the owner/operator fails to or refuses to
carry out the necessary land rehabilitation as outlined in the approved
excavation and rehabilitation plans, the city may, after notice and hearing,
declare any surety filed for this purpose forfeited, or in case of a corporate
bond file suit against the owner or operator and his bonding company. The city
shall also have the right to file suit against the defaulting permittee for
violations of this chapter or any permit granted, and for costs of
rehabilitation and reasonable attorney fees. The city may also cause the
required rehabilitation to be completed and to be reimbursed or pay for such
work out of the surety that was provided. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-12: EXCEPTIONS:
In cases where unusual topographical, exceptional conditions or hardships
exist, variations and exceptions from adhering to the strict requirements of
this chapter may be made by the city council for good cause after
recommendation by the planning commission. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-13: ENFORCEMENT; PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR AUTHORITY:
The public works director is hereby designated and authorized as the officer
charged with the enforcement of this chapter and may, in specific instances at
his discretion, delegate this authority to any authorized city employee. (Ord.
02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-14: INSPECTION AND STOP WORK ORDERS:
It shall be the duty of the public works director to inspect or cause to be
inspected at regular intervals, as often as necessary, all excavations. Where
it is determined by the public works director that any excavation operation is
not proceeding in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the public
works director may order, or cause to be ordered, the work on the excavation
operation stopped by notice in writing served on any person engaged in working
or causing such work to be done on the excavation operation, and all persons
shall forthwith stop such work until the excavation operation is brought into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the public works director
authorizes the excavation operation to proceed. In addition, the public works
director may also pursue appropriate legal action in the courts. Failure to
implement administrative or legal action shall not legalize any violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
7-3-15: VIOLATION:
Any person, owner, operator, corporation, or other entity violating any
provision or provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a class B
misdemeanor; and each such person, owner, operator, corporation, or other
entity shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is committed, continued or permitted; and upon conviction of any such
violation, such person, owner, operator, corporation, or other entity shall be
punishable to the fullest extent of the law. Further, the city may revoke the
excavation conditional use permit and business license of any person, owner,
operator, corporation or other entity violating any provision(s) of this
chapter in accordance with the procedures established by city ordinances or
state law for such revocations. (Ord. 02-02, 4-16-2002)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY, USE AND CONTROL
SECTION:
7-4-1: Use And Control
7-4-1: USE AND CONTROL:
   A.   Unlawful Use: Unless authorized by permit or other written
authorization issued by the city, or unless authority is granted by provisions
of this code or other ordinance of the city, now or hereafter enacted, it shall
be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to: (1980 Code § 8-111; amd. 2002 Code)
      1.   Property Controlled By City: Construct, lay, excavate, erect,
operate or maintain over, under, across, in or through any property owned or
controlled by the city, any utility, canal, ditch, construction or building.
      2.   Restricted Areas: Enter upon any property of the city contrary to
any posting or marking restricting or prohibiting use of the area.
      3.   Damage To Property: Intentionally use or perform acts upon property
of the city which materially impairs, alters or damages the property. (1980
Code § 8-111)
   B.   Repair After Unlawful Use: The city council, in addition to any other
penalty which may be imposed, may order any person who has damaged, altered or
changed any property of the city to repair or restore the property to its
original condition prior to the damage, alteration or change. (1980 Code § 8-
112)
   C.   Franchise; Easement:
      1.   Provisions: The city council may grant to any person a franchise or
easement on such terms and conditions as it deems reasonable for the purpose of
entering upon, constructing, building, operating and maintaining any business
or for other use of the property of the city, and the provisions of subsections
A and B of this section shall not apply to the extent such provisions are
waived, qualified or made inapplicable to the rights or privileges granted in
the franchise ordinance or easement.
      2.   In Writing: Any franchise or easement granted by the city shall be
in writing and any franchise or easement not in writing shall be void. (1980
Code § 8-113)
   D.   Acts Exempted: It shall not be a violation of this section where any
person uses the public property of the city in the manner or for the purpose
for which such property has been made available for public use. (1980 Code § 8-
114)
CHAPTER 5
CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-5-1: City Cemetery
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Applicability
7-5-4: Cemetery Sexton
7-5-5: Burials
7-5-6: Fees And Charges
7-5-7: Lot Sales
7-5-8: Perpetual Care Lots
7-5-9: Nonperpetual Care Lots
7-5-10: Burial Of Indigents
7-5-11: Rules And Regulations
7-5-12: Care And Maintenance; Right To Enter
7-5-13: Unlawful Acts
7-5-14: Perpetual Care Fund
7-5-1: CITY CEMETERY:
The burial grounds of the city shall be known and designated by the name of
Lewiston City cemetery. (1980 Code § 8-202)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words or phrases shall have the following meanings, unless the
context otherwise clearly requires:
LOT: The partial lots or single graves in the city cemetery.
LOT OWNER OR PURCHASER AND GRAVE OWNER OR PURCHASER: The owner or purchaser of
burial privileges or the collateral right of use of any burial lot evidenced by
a deed or burial right for a described lot or by proved and recognized descent
or devise from the original owner. (1980 Code § 8-201)
7-5-3: APPLICABILITY:
All cemeteries owned and/or maintained by the city or which may hereafter be
acquired by the city wherever situated are hereby declared subject to the
provisions of this chapter. (1980 Code § 8-203)
7-5-4: CEMETERY SEXTON:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the position of cemetery sexton. (1980
Code § 8-211; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Duties: The cemetery sexton shall have the general supervision and
administration of the city cemetery, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Recommending to the city council such additional rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the operation, maintenance, use and
protection of the cemetery.
      2.   Subdividing the cemetery into lots and grave sites.
      3.   Maintaining a record of the location of the graves and preventing
any lot from being used beyond its capacity.
      4.   Keeping in proper repair the enclosure around the cemetery and
preventing its being entered by animals and, so far as practical, preventing
the destruction or defacing of any tablet or marker placed or erected therein.
      5.   Keeping a duplicate plat of the cemetery and, at the request of any
person wishing to purchase any of the lots or parts of lots, pointing out any
of the lots or parts of lots for sale; and upon disposal of any lots or parts
thereof, notifying the city recorder of such fact. The city recorder shall,
after payment of the lot price has been received in the treasury, issue a
certificate of burial rights which shall describe the lot or grave to which the
right to burial is granted. The certificate shall be signed by the mayor and
the city recorder.
      6.   Opening any graves in the cemetery upon application to him being
made by the city recorder or by any person having the right to make such
application and being responsible for closing all graves.
      7.   Removing floral pieces or displays left on any grave as deemed
necessary to the appearance of the cemetery, but such floral pieces or displays
shall not be removed sooner than five (5) days after original placement, except
in emergency.
      8.   Keeping the streets, alleys, walks and avenues in the cemetery in
good order and unobstructed. (1980 Code § 8-212; amd. 2002 Code)
7-5-5: BURIALS:
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   Before any deceased person is buried in the city cemetery, a permit
properly issued by the registrar of the registration district in which the
death occurred or, in the absence of such registrar, a permit duly issued by
the state division of health or other authorized person shall be required by
the cemetery sexton. After burial, the sexton shall endorse upon the permit a
description of the location where the deceased is buried and shall enter all of
the information contained in the permit in the cemetery records. (1980 Code §
8-221; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury the body of a deceased
person in the city cemetery without first obtaining a certificate of burial
right for the lot used or producing satisfactory evidence of a right to burial
based on a properly acquired certificate of burial right. (1980 Code § 8-222)
   B.   Registration: Before any deceased person may be buried in the city
cemetery, the relatives or person having charge of the deceased shall provide
the city recorder with a written statement which shall be filed by the city
recorder, which statement shall contain, if known, information about the
deceased regarding his or her name, when and where born, the date and cause of
death, the name of the attending physician, date of burial, name of cemetery
and the description of the location of the grave. (1980 Code § 8-223)
   C.   Unlawful Or Restricted Acts:
      1.   It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to:
         a.   Disinter any body buried in any cemetery, except under the
direction of the cemetery sexton who shall, before disinterment, require
written permission from both the district health officer and the owner of the
lot or his or her heirs, which written authorization shall be filed and
preserved in a record kept for such purposes, or in the alternative, a properly
issued and signed court order providing for such action.
         b.   Disinter or remove the body of a person who has died from a
contagious disease within two (2) years after the date of burial, unless the
body was buried in a hermetically sealed casket or vault and is found to be so
incased at the time of disinterment.
      2.   It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to inter anything other than the remains of human bodies in
cemeteries.
      3.   It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to bury the body of any person within the city, except in
the city cemetery or a private cemetery, unless by special permission of the
city council under such rules and regulations that it may prescribe. (1980 Code
§ 8-224; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Vaults Required; Exception:
      1.   Unless in writing waived by the cemetery sexton, it shall be
unlawful for any person to be buried in the cemetery unless the casket shall be
placed in a vault made of concrete, fiberglass, steel or brick-lined or of such
other material approved by the city council, substantially constructed and
covered with a similar durable material.
      2.   No wood shall be used as a permanent part of the construction of any
part of the vault. (1980 Code § 8-225; amd. 2002 Code)
7-5-6: FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Established; Authority: The city council shall, from time to time by
resolution, fix the size of lots, the price at which burial rights shall be
sold and the fees which shall be charged for the various cemetery services to
be provided. (1980 Code § 8-243)
   B.   Collection: The city recorder, and such other persons as the city
council may designate, are hereby authorized and required to collect in
advance, prices and fees for the opening and closing of graves or other
services which shall include, but not be limited to, properly disinterring
bodies and properly restoring the earth and grounds, recording each burial,
disinterment or removal and raised monument privileges. The fees shall be such
amounts as are determined by the city council from time to time by resolution.
(1980 Code § 8-241)
   C.   Opening Graves:
      1.   No grave shall be opened in the city cemetery until payment of a fee
for the labor and expense in so opening the grave shall be paid.
      2.   The presentation of a receipt from the city recorder or person
designated by the city council when presented to the cemetery sexton, shall be
authority to open a grave for the burial of a deceased person. However, upon a
contract being entered into between any mortician and the city wherein the
mortician agrees to be responsible and liable for fees for the opening of a
grave, and wherein that mortician will be personally liable for such fees and
for perpetual care payments, the city recorder or authorized person may give
the cemetery sexton authority to open graves without the presentation of a
receipt from the city recorder or authorized person. (1980 Code § 8-242; amd.
2002 Code)
7-5-7: LOT SALES:
   A.   Authority; Records: The city recorder, and such other person as the
city council may designate, are hereby authorized to sell the use of lots in
the city cemetery for burial purposes only and to collect all sums arising from
the sale. The city recorder shall keep a complete record of all sales, which
record shall describe the location of the lot purchased and the price paid
therefor. The city recorder or designated person shall deliver to each
purchaser a certificate of burial rights for each lot purchased, which
certificate shall, among other things, describe the location of the lot, the
purchase price and the type of maintenance services which are to be provided,
e.g., perpetual care, prepaid maintenance or currently paid services.
   B.   Purchase Price, Scope Of: A certificate and rights to burial shall be
exempt from execution, taxation or assessment for care and maintenance from and
after full payment of the purchase price. Payments made pursuant to this
section shall not be construed to be in payment for cemetery services other
than perpetual care or prepaid maintenance.
   C.   Services Included: Perpetual care or prepaid maintenance shall be
deemed to include the filling of the grave, the placing of topsoil upon the
grave, seeding the grave with grass and watering and cutting the grass. No
other services are included. (1980 Code § 8-251)
   D.   Improvements, Changes And Services: No other improvements, changes or
services, except perpetual care or prepaid continued maintenance, shall be made
on any lot without the certificate holder or his heirs first submitting to and
receiving from the cemetery sexton written approval for such improvements,
changes or services, which improvements, changes or services shall be subject
to the rules and regulations promulgated by the city council. (1980 Code § 8-
251; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Resale Restrictions:
      1.   From and after July 30, 1976, the lots sold by the city shall not be
further sold, transferred, conveyed or assigned to any person except the city.
The city hereby agrees to buy back any city cemetery grave lot which it may
hereafter sell. The repurchase of such lots shall be for the original price
paid by the purchaser or the current selling price of the lot, whichever is
less.
      2.   Whenever a certificate of burial rights or lots reverts to the city,
as provided for in this subsection, or becomes vested in the city for any
reason, before new certificates are issued, the original certificate shall be
canceled or an assignment given and the record shall be so changed.
      3.   The certificates shall be issued and signed by the mayor and shall
be attested by the city recorder. All lots or parts of lots, as provided in
this subsection, together with all improvements, shall be exempt from execution
and from taxation and assessment for care and maintenance charges from and
after said payment. (1980 Code § 8-252)
7-5-8: PERPETUAL CARE LOTS:
   A.   Scope Of Care: The essential perpetual care that the city agrees to
give shall consist of care of the cemetery generally, and shall include, but is
not limited to, mowing of all lots and graves at reasonable intervals,
resodding, seeding and filling in sunken graves, sodding the surface of the
graves to lot level, removing dead flowers and trimming trees and shrubbery
when necessary, raking and cleaning the lots and straightening of tilting
stones or markers, but shall not include repairing or replacing markers or
memorial structures of any nature, except when the need for repair or
replacement is directly caused by the city. (1980 Code § 8-262)
   B.   Contracting For Care:
      1.   No grave shall be hereafter opened in the cemetery of this city
until perpetual care upon the lot where the grave is to be opened shall have
been contracted for with the city, or perpetual care thereon paid. Should it be
the desire of any person to have a grave opened and the body interred therein
and perpetual care shall not have been previously contracted for or paid in
full for the lot therein, the person may either pay the full purchase price for
perpetual care or enter into a contract wherein payment shall be agreed upon.
      2.   The agreement shall provide for a down payment in the amount of
twenty percent (20%) of the total purchase price of the cost of the lot, and
shall further provide for the payment of monthly installments over a period not
to exceed twenty (20) months. The monthly installments shall be in the amounts
equal to the balance of the contract divided by the number of months which the
contract is to run, plus two (2) months extra payment to pay for the privilege
of making the payments in installments or six percent (6%) of the balance,
whichever is less.
      3.   The installment contract for perpetual care of, or purchase of a lot
with perpetual care, shall provide for collection by the city in event of a
default and such collection shall be by civil action, and the defendant therein
shall pay cost of collection, together with reasonable attorney fees to the
city, and shall also pay interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum
upon the past due installments. All installments shall immediately become due
upon the default of any of the installments; provided, however, that when
perpetual care for any lot in the city cemetery or portion thereof, has not
been paid for a period of ten (10) years, then, and in such an event, the
unused portion of the lot shall thereafter escheat to the city, and the title
thereof shall revert to the city, which shall thereafter have the right, option
and privilege to sell and dispose of unused cemetery property, as is in this
chapter provided, upon condition that the city shall thereafter maintain
perpetually without cost or fee the portion of the lot occupied by a grave or
graves prior to the date when the remaining property escheated to the city.
      4.   The city shall have the power to fix, by resolution, a fee from any
person now owning a cemetery lot or portion thereof for the annual maintenance
and care thereof. The fee shall continue to be paid until such time as a
further or additional interment shall be made on the lot, at which time the
provisions of this subsection relating to perpetual care and maintenance and to
payment of fees and costs pertaining thereto shall take effect and apply. (1980
Code § 8-261)
7-5-9: NONPERPETUAL CARE LOTS:
   A.   Maintenance Charges:
      1.   Every lot for which perpetual care has not been purchased and with
reference to which the owner has established a right to directly provide for
maintenance and care, notwithstanding the provisions of section
7-5-12 of this chapter, shall be maintained and cared for to the extent and in
accordance with the standards established by the city council for care and
maintenance of all lots of the cemetery.
      2.   In the event that the owner fails to provide the requisite care and
maintenance for nonperpetual care lots, the cemetery sexton shall furnish care
and maintenance at rates established by the city council.
      3.   All such charges shall become a personal liability of the owner of
the lots and, in addition thereto, shall constitute a lien against the lots
upon the basis of which the city council may cause the burial rights therein to
be forfeited and said rights to revert to the city. (1980 Code § 8-281; amd.
2002 Code)
   B.   Reversion Of Nonpaying Lots:
      1.   When any owner of any lot or portion of a lot in the cemetery shall
have failed to pay the cost of services rendered by the city or its employees
in watering, beautifying, maintaining or caring for any lots or portions
thereof in the city cemetery for which perpetual care has not been purchased in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and such failure to pay has
continued for a period of six (6) months, the city may pursue collection of
such costs in a court of law. A court action may be pursued for the purpose of
seeking judgment against the owner and thereafter attaching any of the assets
of the owner, including an attachment of the lots or portions of lots upon
which the owner has failed to make payment for maintenance service.
      2.   As an additional remedy, or in lieu of seeking collection in a court
of law, the city may cancel the owner's certificate or deed representing rights
to burial on the unoccupied lots or portions of lots and causing ownership of
lots or portions thereof to revert back to the city by following the procedure
set forth in this section. (1980 Code § 8-282)
   C.   Procedure For Reversion Back To City:
      1.   The city may terminate the owner's right to use of unoccupied lot or
lots in the city cemetery when there has been a six (6) month failure to pay
the costs of maintenance provided by the city in the following manner:
         a.   The city council shall fix a time and place of hearing before the
city council at which the owner shall be given the opportunity to present good
cause as to why his right to future use of the lot or lots involved shall not
be terminated and as to why the ownership of the lot or portions of the lot
shall not revert back to the city for resale by it.
         b.   A notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing to forfeit
the owner's interest in the lot or parts of the lot shall be given by personal
delivery of a written notice of the time, place and purpose of the meeting of
the city council or by mailing a copy of the notice to the last known address
of the owner or owners.
         c.   In the absence of an ability to make personal delivery of the
written notice to the owner or owners, a notice of the hearing to forfeit
rights to said lot or portions of the lot shall be published at least once in a
newspaper having general circulation in the county. The publication shall be
made at least three (3) weeks prior to the date of the hearing.
         d.   If the owner is known to be deceased, then mailing of notice or
delivery of notice shall be made to the last known addresses of any known
heirs.
         e.   Copies of the notice shall also be posted in a conspicuous place
in the offices of the city.
         f.   At the time and place set for the hearing before the city
council, the city council shall give the owner or owners an opportunity to be
heard, a right to present witnesses and to submit evidence showing cause why
the lot or portions of the lot shall not be forfeited to the city.
      2.   After due consideration of all the facts presented at such hearing,
the city council may order, if it finds that there has been a failure to make
payment of such costs or if no satisfactory arrangement has been proffered for
making the immediate payment of such costs, that the lot or portions of the lot
shall revert to the city for resale and that all of the rights and privileges
of the owner in the lot or lots are terminated.
      3.   Thereafter, the city may make sale of the lots in the same manner as
it makes sales of all other lots within the cemetery. (1980 Code § 8-283)
7-5-10: BURIAL OF INDIGENTS:
   A.   The city council may by resolution designate a portion of the city
cemetery to the burial of indigents. Whenever it is made to appear to the mayor
by proof submitted to him by the city recorder that any person who has died
does not have an estate sufficient to pay the purchase price of a lot in the
cemetery, and that the nearest relative or representative of such deceased
person desires to have the body of such deceased interred in the cemetery, the
mayor may grant burial space for such deceased person at the request made to
him by the city recorder.
   B.   The mayor shall communicate his decision to both the city recorder and
the cemetery sexton. The mayor shall give report of his decision, whether
affirmative or negative, to the city council at its next regular meeting. All
strangers without funds or other persons who may die in the city may be granted
the privilege granted herein. (1980 Code § 8-291; amd. 2002 Code)
7-5-11: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Authority To Regulate; Procedure:
      1.   The city council may promulgate by resolution such additional rules
and regulations concerning the care, use, operation and maintenance of the
cemetery as it shall deem necessary.
      2.   The mayor may, from time to time as the city council deems
necessary, direct and publish a booklet of rules and regulations for the
convenience of the purchasers of lots in the city cemetery. Such rules and
regulations shall constitute a part of the terms and conditions under which
owners and users may utilize the cemetery and shall form a supplement to this
chapter after they have been adopted as official by resolution of the city
council.
      3.   Any changes in the rules and regulations shall be adopted by the
city council before such changes shall be official. (1980 Code § 8-237)
   B.   Lots Sold: Every lot or single grave sold is subject to rules and
regulations that have been or may be adopted. The rules and regulations shall
be subject to such changes as are found necessary for the protection of lot
owners, the remains of the dead and the preservation of the cemetery. (1980
Code § 8-227)
   C.   Traffic Control:
      1.   The provisions of the city traffic ordinances relative to the
operation of vehicles and conduct of pedestrians shall be in effect in the
cemetery, except as herein otherwise modified by this chapter.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive within the city
cemetery at a speed greater than five (5) miles per hour. (1980 Code § 8-230)
   D.   Children: Children under the age of sixteen (16) years shall not be
allowed in cemeteries unless accompanied by their parents or other adults,
except for the purposes of attending authorized funerals or, in the company of
adults, placing flowers on the grave of a deceased relative or friend, or
performing any other customary evidence of respect in accordance with their
religious principles. (1980 Code § 8-231; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Animals: No animal shall be allowed in any cemetery, except in the
confines of a vehicle and must be at all times retained within the confines of
said vehicle while the vehicle remains in the cemetery. (1980 Code § 8-232)
   F.   Decorum: Cemetery grounds are sacredly devoted to the interment and
repose of the dead. Strict observance of decorum due such a place shall be
required of all persons. (1980 Code § 8-233)
   G.   Errors In Opening Graves: Under no circumstances will the city assume
responsibilities for errors in opening graves when orders are given by
telephone. (1980 Code § 8-229)
   H.   Religious And Fraternal Organizations: The city may contract with
religious and fraternal organizations to designate a reasonable portion of the
cemetery in which burials may be restricted to members of such religious and
fraternal organizations and their families. (1980 Code § 8-226)
7-5-12: CARE AND MAINTENANCE; RIGHT TO ENTER:
The city reserves the right to enter upon any grave and to perform all work
necessary for the care and upkeep of all lots and graves in its cemeteries.
(1980 Code § 8-228)
7-5-13: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Injury To Property:
      1.   It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to tie or attempt to tie any horse, animal
or motor vehicle to any monument, gravestone, tablet, marker, tree, shrub,
fence or enclosure on the premises of the cemetery for the purpose of injuring,
defacing or attempting the removal of same.
      2.   It shall be an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to injure, deface, break, destroy or remove
any headstone, tombstone, monument, tree, shrub or any other property in the
cemetery. (1980 Code § 8-234; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Landscaping By Private Persons: Except as provided by the rules and
regulations of the city council, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect
or maintain any fence, corner post, coping or boundary of any kind, to plant
any vegetation upon any lot or lots, street, alley or walk in the cemetery or
to grade the ground or land thereof. The cemetery sexton shall, whenever
required, furnish the true lines of any lots according to official survey,
shall prevent and prohibit any markings of the same except by official
landmarks, and shall prevent and prohibit any grading thereof that might
destroy or interfere with the general slope of the land. (1980 Code § 8-235;
amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Placement Of Markers: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
place or cause to be placed any marker or monument on any lot in cemetery in
violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the city council
regarding the placement, construction and design of all such markers. (1980
Code § 8-236)
7-5-14: PERPETUAL CARE FUND:
   A.   Established:
      1.   There hereby is established a perpetual care fund according to the
laws of the state of Utah and this chapter. All funds received from the sale of
perpetual care services shall be placed in a special perpetual care fund,
invested in compliance with the laws of the state and used for the purposes
herein provided.
      2.   The income from the perpetual care fund shall be used to pay the
upkeep and development of the cemetery. The city may borrow from the fund from
time to time, but any funds borrowed shall be repaid to the fund with interest
thereon at the prevailing rate paid by the city to borrow funds from commercial
lenders.
      3.   If the city borrows from the fund, it shall pay into a fund for the
operation of the cemeteries the interest accrued upon money annually. Should it
be found that the interest returned upon the perpetual care funds shall be more
than is required to pay for the operation and upkeep of the city cemetery, then
the surplus shall be added to the principal amount of the perpetual care fund
herein created, and shall be so handled until changed by resolution to provide
for the use of such accumulated interest. (1980 Code § 8-271)
   B.   Treasurer Duties: It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to keep an
accurate record of the perpetual care trust fund account, including
investments, to see that the principal portion thereof is properly invested in
accordance with resolutions of the city council and the laws of the state, and
to advise the mayor when funds are available for investment in the amount of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more. The mayor shall advise the city
council of the availability of such funds. (1980 Code § 8-272)
   C.   City Council Duties: It shall be the duty of the city council when
funds are available for investment to direct by resolution all purchases of
securities for the perpetual care fund or to name a suitable trustee for such
investment. (1980 Code § 8-273)
   D.   Income: All income from investments held in the perpetual care fund
shall be quarterly credited to the cemetery maintenance fund for use in
providing the perpetual care as required herein. (1980 Code § 8-274)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Department And System; Administration
8-1-2: Application
8-1-3: Fees, Rates And Charges
8-1-4: Meters Required
8-1-5: Maintenance Of Service Pipes
8-1-6: Scarcity Of Water
8-1-7: Extension Of Water Mains
8-1-8: Fire Hydrants
8-1-9: Prohibited Acts And Activities
8-1-10: Abandoned Lines
8-1-11: Access For Inspection
8-1-12: Nonliability For Damages
8-1-1: DEPARTMENT AND SYSTEM; ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Created: The water department of the city is hereby created. It shall
administer the operation and maintenance of the water system of the city. (1980
Code § 14-110)
   B.   Director: The public works director shall, under the direction of the
city council, have charge of the reservoirs, water tanks, water mains and fire
hydrants, and of all machinery and appurtenances appertaining to the
waterworks. He shall have the direction of the laying of water mains and
putting in of service pipes and the regulation of water supply to fire hydrants
and to all consumers. He shall report to the city council quarterly the
condition of the waterworks and make such suggestions as the nature of the
service may require. (1980 Code § 14-112; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Control Of System: The waterworks constructed, owned and controlled by
the city, to supply the city with water, shall be known and designated as the
"city waterworks". It shall be the property of the city and shall be under the
sole and exclusive control of the city council, which may from time to time
direct the construction of such reservoirs, water tanks, water mains and fire
hydrants as the necessities of the inhabitants of the city may require. (1980
Code § 14-111)
8-1-2: APPLICATION:
Whenever any person desires to obtain a supply of water from the city
waterworks, he shall make application therefor in writing to the city and sign
an agreement that he will be governed by such rules and regulations not
inconsistent with this chapter as may be prescribed by the city council for the
control of the water supply. The applicant shall state the location, kind of
building, number of rooms and the entire area of ground to be supplied, and
fully and truly state the purpose for which the water is to be used. (1980 Code
§ 14-116)
8-1-3: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Established By Resolution: The rates, penalty fee for delinquency in
payment, connection fee, reservoir fee, inspection fee and other charges
incidental to connection and services from the city water system shall be fixed
from time to time by resolution enacted by the city council. The city council
may from time to time promulgate rules for levying, billing, guaranteeing and
collecting charges for water services and all other rules necessary for the
management and control of the water system. Rates for services furnished shall
be uniform with respect to each class or classes of service established or that
may hereafter be established. (1980 Code § 14-138)
   B.   Special Rates: The city council may from time to time fix by agreement
or resolution special rates and conditions for users using exceptionally large
amounts of water service or making use of the water system under exceptional
circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as they may deem proper. (1980
Code § 14-139)
   C.   Connection Cost: The city shall collect from such applicants the cost
of connecting the service pipe to the water mains, which amount shall be set by
the city council by resolution or ordinance. All water users shall be required
to install and maintain a stop and waste cock to be placed as to enable the
water to be shut off from the plumbing equipment of the premises. (1980 Code §
14-118)
   D.   Monthly Service Fee And Termination: The owner, tenant or occupant of
any premises served by the city water system shall each month pay the minimum
service fee plus all charges for excess water used over and above the minimum
unless the owner, tenant or occupant makes a request in writing that a
particular water service be turned off. There shall be no fee for having the
city turn off the water. However, the owner, tenant or occupant will be
required to make a written request and pay a fee in such amount as established
by resolution of the city council as expenses to have the water turned back on.
(1980 Code § 14-128; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Due Date: A billing statement for water service charges (and charges
for other services may also be included), shall be furnished to all users of
the water system monthly, quarterly or at such other intervals as the city
council may from time to time by resolution direct; and payment thereof shall
be due thirty (30) days after the billing date indicated on the statement and
shall be delinquent thereafter. Payment for water transportation facilities and
measuring devices shall be due in advance.
   F.   Liability Of Property Owner:
      1.   Tenant's Use Of System: In case any application for water service is
made by the tenant of the property owner, as a condition to granting the same,
the owner or his duly authorized agent shall be and is hereby required, in
consideration of the granting of such application, to execute an agreement with
the city that the owner will be responsible and pay for all water service
charges, water transportation facilities and/or water measuring devices
furnished such tenant or any other occupant of the property described in the
application, in case such tenant or occupant shall fail to pay for the same
according to the provisions of this chapter. Whenever tenants or persons are
using the water system, the owner of the premises shall be deemed and held
responsible for all charges and costs of the water provided. (Ord., 11-20-1996)
      2.   Utility Services Agreement; Agreement Of Owner Form: The form for a
written utility service agreement and agreement of owner, if applicable, is
attached to the ordinance codified herein, which is on file in the city office,
and is hereby adopted as the agreement form to be utilized by all applicants
for utility services from the city. The city recorder or other official
responsible for utility services within the city shall require each applicant
and owner, if applicable, to complete, execute and file such agreement with the
city before any application for water utility services will be considered and
granted. (Ord., 11-20-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
   G.   Termination Of Service For Failure To Pay: In case the owner or the
tenant, or occupant of an owner, as provided in this chapter, shall fail to pay
all water service charges, for water transportation facilities, and/or water
measuring devices furnished such owner, tenant or occupant on or before the due
date for payment in accordance with the terms of this chapter, the city may,
after fifteen (15) days' written notice, cause the water to be shut off from
such premises and shall not be required to turn the same on again until all
arrears for water furnished shall be paid in full, plus a reconnection fee. The
exercise of this right by the city shall be in addition to any other remedy
available to the city by law, to collect delinquent amounts owing for water,
water transportation facilities and water measuring devices. (Ord., 11-20-1996)
   H.   Complaints; Corrections; Indigent Persons: The city council is hereby
constituted a board of equalization of water rates to hear complaints and make
corrections of any assessments deemed to be illegal, unequal or unjust. They
may, if they see fit, rebate all or any part of the water bill of any indigent
person. (1980 Code § 14-140)
8-1-4: METERS REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise expressly permitted by this chapter, all structures,
dwelling units and establishments using water from the city system must have
such number of water meters connected to their water systems as are necessary
in the judgment of the public works director to adequately measure use and
determine water charges to the respective water users. Meters will be furnished
by the city at the expense of the property holder, at rates established from
time to time by resolution, and whenever a dispute arises as to the appropriate
number of meters to be installed on any premises, the matter shall be heard and
determined by the city council after due notice in writing to the parties
involved. (1980 Code § 14-117; amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-5: MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE PIPES:
All water users at their own expense shall keep all service pipes from the
point where the same connects with the water meter to the termination thereof
upon their own premises, together with connections and all other apparatus, in
good repair and protected from frost; but no person, except under direction of
the public works director, shall be allowed, to dig into the street or sidewalk
for the purpose of laying, removing or repairing any service pipe. (1980 Code §
14-120; amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-6: SCARCITY OF WATER:
In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall be in the judgment of the city
council necessary, the city council shall by proclamation limit the use of
water for other than domestic purposes, and in their discretion provide that
sprinkling shall only be used on alternate days, or prohibited entirely. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this section or any proclamation made
by the city council in pursuance thereof shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 14-124; amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-7: EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS:
   A.   Application: Any person or persons, including any subdivider, desiring
to have the water mains extended within the city, and being willing to advance
the whole expense of such extension, and receive the return of an agreed
portion thereof, as hereinafter provided, may make application to the city
council by petition containing a description of such proposed extension
accompanied by a map and blueprint showing the location thereof, which petition
shall also contain an offer to advance the whole expense of making the same and
the expense shall be certified by the public works director. The city council
may grant or deny the petition as in its discretion seems best for the welfare
of existing water users in the city. (1980 Code § 14-133; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Cost Of Extensions Determined: Upon receipt of such petition and map,
and before the petition is granted, the city council shall obtain from the
public works director a certified statement showing the whole cost and expense
of making such extension. (1980 Code § 14-134; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Amount Deposited With City: If the city council shall grant the
petition, before any work shall be done on such extension, and within thirty
(30) days or such other time as the city council shall indicate after the
granting thereof, the amount of the cost and expense of making such extension,
as certified by the public works director shall be deposited with the city
recorder. (1980 Code § 14-135; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Return Of Deposit: At the time that the city council determines whether
or not to grant the petition for an extension, it shall also determine whether
or not any of the deposited costs of extension shall be ultimately refunded to
the applicant, the amount to be so refunded, if any, and the manner and
circumstances under which the refund shall be made or credited to the
applicant, his successors or representatives. Such determination shall be duly
recorded in writing and a copy thereof furnished to the applicant. (1980 Code §
14-136)
   E.   Ownership Of Extension: Any such extension shall be deemed the property
of the city. (1980 Code § 14-137)
8-1-8: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Access; Use: All hydrants shall be under the control of and shall be
kept in repair by the public works director and in case of fire or fires, the
fire department and such others as the city council may authorize shall have
free access to the hydrants. No unauthorized person shall open or operate any
fire hydrant, or attempt to draw water therefrom. (1980 Code § 14-113; amd.
2002 Code)
   B.   Injuring Hydrants Or Hose Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person wilfully or carelessly to run a vehicle against a fire hydrant, or
otherwise wilfully or carelessly injure the same. It shall be unlawful for any
person to drive any vehicle over or across hose when laid for the purpose of
extinguishing fire or other useful purpose. (1980 Code § 14-114)
   C.   Wrenches: Wrenches for fire hydrants shall be furnished by the public
works director to the fire department and to any other person having charge of
the wrenches to permit the same to be taken from their place of deposit or to
be used for any other purpose authorized by the director. (1980 Code § 14-115;
amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Unauthorized Users: If any water taker shall permit any person from
other premises or any unauthorized person to use or obtain water from his
premises or water fixtures, whether inside or outside of his building, the
supply of water may be cut off and the amount paid forfeited and such
unauthorized person for taking such water shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 14-119; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Improper Use: If any water user shall waste water, or allow it to be
wasted, or use the water for any purpose other than those for which they have
paid, or use it in violation of the rules and regulations for controlling the
water supply, and the provisions of this chapter, he shall be guilty of a class
C misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and the water may be cut off from such water users and all
payments forfeited, unless such person shall promptly pay all fines and such
additional charges as may be assessed. (1980 Code § 14-121; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Use Without Payment: Whoever by himself, family, servant or agents,
shall use the water coming through the water mains without first paying
therefor as hereinafter provided or shall, without authority, open any
stopcock, valve or other fixture attached to the system of water supply, or
shall in any way injure, deface or impair any part or appurtenances of the
waterworks, or shall cast anything into any reservoir or tank belonging to the
works, shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 14-122; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Use After Shutoff: Any person, after the water has been turned off from
his premises on account of nonpayment of rates or other violation of the rules
and regulations pertaining to the water supply, who shall turn on or allow the
water to be turned on or use or allow the water to be used without authority,
shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and shall be required to make new application as provided by
this chapter. (1980 Code § 14-123; amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-10: ABANDONED LINES:
Any water service line or service connection which is turned off and/or for
which the monthly service fee has not been paid for a period of one year shall
be considered abandoned and all rights of the owner, tenant or occupant to use
the service line or connection shall be terminated. The city shall turn off all
abandoned lines and remove the meter if one exists. In order for the owner,
tenant or occupant to obtain water service from, or in the vicinity of, an
abandoned water service line or connection, he must submit a written
application and pay all fees as required by this chapter. (1980 Code § 14-129)
8-1-11: ACCESS FOR INSPECTION:
Free access shall, at all ordinary hours, be allowed to the public works
director or other authorized person to all places supplied with water to
examine the apparatus, the amount used, and the manner of using the same, and
the water taker violating any of the rules and regulations controlling the
water supply shall forfeit all the payments made and the right to the use of
the water. (1980 Code § 14-125; amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-12: NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The city council shall not be held liable for damages to any water taker by
reason of a stoppage or interruption of his water supply caused by scarcity of
water, accidents to works or mains, alterations, additions, repairs or from any
other unavoidable cause. (1980 Code § 14-126)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Administration
8-2-2: Connection Required; Distance Requirement
8-2-3: Separate Connections
8-2-4: Permit Requirements
8-2-5: Plans May Be Required
8-2-6: Fees, Rates And Charges
8-2-7: Fixtures And Fittings Used In Connections
8-2-8: Prohibited Acts And Activities
8-2-9: Inspections; Revocation
8-2-10: Penalty
8-2-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Director Of Public Works: The sewer system of the city shall be under
the immediate care, supervision and control of the director of public works,
who shall hereinafter be referred to as the "director". His salary, duties and
term of employment shall be determined by the city council. The director shall
have charge of all equipment and appurtenances pertaining to the sewage system
of the city. He shall have the direction of the laying of the sewer mains and
putting in all service pipes, and the regulation and disposal of sewage, and
shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by law or ordinance
or by his contract of employment. He shall make such reports to the city
council as the city council shall by resolution provide and shall make such
suggestions as the nature of the service may require. (1980 Code § 14-211)
   B.   Control Of System: The mayor and the city council shall from time to
time enact by resolution regulations prescribing connection charges and rates
to be charged for the use of the sewer system, inspection and permit fees and
procedures, rules for levying, billing, guarantying and collecting the charges
for sewer service, rules governing the manner of making connections to the
sewer system, materials to be used and such other rules and regulations for the
management and control of sewage disposal as they shall deem fit. (1980 Code §
14-212)
8-2-2: CONNECTION REQUIRED; DISTANCE REQUIREMENT:
It is hereby expressly provided that it shall be unlawful for the owner or
other persons having charge of or occupying any property upon which a building
shall have been or is being constructed for use for human occupancy, where any
property line of the property on which said building is located is within three
hundred feet (300') of any public sewer then in existence and used in the city,
to construct or permit to be constructed or to use or to permit to be used any
privy vault, septic tank or cesspool connected with such building. Every such
owner or other person shall, within thirty (30) days after having been given
notice by the city that an accepted public sewer is ready to receive
connections, therewith cause such building to be connected with the sewer, and
it shall thereafter be unlawful for such owner or other person to have the
plumbing in such building remain unconnected to the public sewer or to maintain
or use or cause or permit to exist any privy vault, septic tank or cesspool to
which the building is connected or which is used by the occupant thereof.
Whenever an accepted public sewer system is available to receive connections
therewith, the director shall cause appropriate notice to be served upon the
owner, agent or other person having charge of or occupying all property coming
within the scope of this section that the public sewer is ready to receive
connection therewith, and that all plumbing must be connected with such sewer.
(1980 Code § 14-213; amd. 2002 Code)
8-2-3: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Each separate building or premises shall have a separate connection to
the main line sewer except only in cases where this requirement proves
impracticable or inadvisable and then only on special permission to be granted
by the city council upon recommendation of the director, separate buildings may
be connected to the same private sewer, using one main line sewer connection;
provided, however, that no such special permission shall be granted by the city
council unless and until the owner of each building or premises to be thus
connected shall grant to and receive from each other perpetual easements and
rights of way which shall be properly recorded with the county recorder's
office across and upon each of the premises involved, for the purpose of
constructing and maintaining each separate connection, and shall covenant and
agree as a part of such right of way or easement, so that the same shall be a
covenant appurtenant to and running with the land, and each owner will bear and
pay his proportionate share for the maintenance and repair of the connection,
whether the expenditure, maintenance or repair is, or becomes necessary, upon
his own premises or upon the premises with which he is connected.
   B.   The drainage system of each new building and of new work installed in
any existing building shall be separate and independent from that of any other
building, and every building shall have an independent connection to a public
or private sewer, except as provided hereinafter. Where one building stands in
the rear of another on an interior lot, and no sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining court, yard or driveway,
the building drain from the front building may be extended to the rear building
upon approval of the director. (1980 Code § 14-220)
8-2-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Laying Of Pipe And Repairs: It shall be unlawful for any person to
commence or carry on the work of laying, repairing, altering or connecting any
private drain or sewer pipe, directly or indirectly, with the public sewer
without first having received the regular permit required by ordinance from the
director. (1980 Code § 14-214)
   B.   Connections, Attachments To System: It shall be unlawful for any person
to connect or attach any private drain or house connection, directly or
indirectly, with the public sewer without having first paid for and received a
sewer installation permit from the director. If any work requiring a permit
under this chapter is commenced without a permit first having been obtained
therefor, double the permit fee shall be collected when a permit is finally
obtained. A payment of any fee provided for in this section however, shall in
no way relieve any person of the penalties that may be imposed for the
violation of any section in this chapter. (1980 Code § 14-215)
   C.   Application; Fees: Application for permits for sewer connections must
be made in writing jointly by a plumber duly licensed and registered by the
Utah state department of registration and holding a valid contractor's license,
and by the owner of the premises involved, on an application blank furnished by
the director. If, in the judgment of the director, the carrying out of such
connection will cause no injury to the street in which the sewer line sought to
be connected with is laid or to the carrying out of the improvements projected
or which may thereafter be made on the street, or prejudicial to the interest
of persons whose property has been or may thereafter be connected with the
sewer, and that the connection in all things shall conform to the ordinances of
the city, then the application to connect with the sewer shall be granted
subject to the provisions of this chapter. All sewer connections shall be to
line and grade designated by the director who shall prepare, or cause the
applicant to have prepared, a plat for each connection and shall file such plat
in his office. For each connection for which services, filing and inspection
are required, the director shall collect a fee in the amount fixed by
resolution of the city council. (1980 Code § 14-216; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Revocation Of Permit: All permits for sewer connections shall be issued
to the plumber who is to do the work, but the director may at any time revoke a
permit on account of defective work or for just cause upon proper notice. (1980
Code § 14-217)
   E.   Compliance With Standards Required: Permits to connect with the sewer
shall not be issued unless the plumbing in the house or building to be
connected is in accordance with the provisions of all ordinances and codes of
the city relating thereto. No permit shall be issued nor shall any connection
be made to the main sewer when the fixtures in the house or building are
located lower than the present elevation of the main sewer unless adequate
means such as a pump or pneumatic ejector is installed in the plumbing of the
house or building to lift and discharge the sewage at the required elevation to
permit gravity flow from the building to the main sewer. (1980 Code § 14-218)
   F.   Completion Of Work: The work authorized by the permit shall be done
with all possible speed in accordance with city ordinances. If the work is not
completed within thirty (30) days, unless special extension is granted by the
director, the permit shall be void and no refund made for the delay. (1980 Code
§ 14-219)
8-2-5: PLANS MAY BE REQUIRED:
The director may require the submission of plans, specifications, drawings and
such other information as he may deem necessary prior to the commencement of,
and at any time during the progress of, any work regulated by this chapter.
(1980 Code § 14-227)
8-2-6: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Payment Of Fees And Charges: All structures that can be served by the
sewer when the same is completed and ready for use shall be charged the rates
fixed by resolution of the city council, whether or not such structures are
connected to the sewer, commencing with the month following the month when the
sewer is completed to the point when the connection would be made. The city
shall mail a written statement to each user of the sewer services once each
month or such other regular interval as the city council shall direct as a part
of the municipal culinary water billing. Payment of any amounts due shall be
due thirty (30) days after the billing date indicated on the consolidated
statement and shall be delinquent thereafter. The city treasurer is hereby
authorized and empowered in addition to the foregoing, to enforce the payment
of all delinquent water and sewer service charges by an action at law in the
corporate name of the city. (1980 Code § 14-223; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Liability Of Property Owner:
      1.   Tenant's Use Of System: In case any application for sewer service is
made by the tenant of the property owner, as a condition to granting the same,
the owner or his duly authorized agent shall be and is hereby required, in
consideration of the granting of such application, to execute an agreement with
the city that the owner will be responsible and pay for all sewer service
charges, sewer transportation facilities and/or sewer measuring devices
furnished such tenant or any other occupant of the property described in the
application in case such tenant or occupant shall fail to pay for the same
according to the provisions of this chapter. Whenever tenants or persons are
using the sewer system, the owner of the premises shall be deemed and held
responsible for all charges and costs of the sewer services provided.
      2.   Utility Services Agreement; Agreement Of Owner Form: The form for a
written utility service agreement and agreement of owner, if applicable, is
attached to the ordinance codified herein, which is on file in the city office,
and is hereby adopted as the agreement form to be utilized by all applicants
for utility services from the city. The city recorder or other official
responsible for utility services within the city shall require each applicant
and owner, if applicable, to complete, execute and file such agreement with the
city before any application for sewer utility services will be considered and
granted. (Ord., 11-20-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Termination Of Service For Failure To Pay: In case the owner or the
tenant or occupant of an owner, as provided in this chapter, shall fail to pay
for sewer service charges, sewer transportation facilities, and/or sewer
measuring devices furnished such owner, tenant or occupant on or before the due
date for payment in accordance with the terms of this chapter, the city may,
after fifteen (15) days' written notice, cause the water to be shut off from
such premises and shall not be required to turn the same on again until all
arrears for sewer services furnished shall be paid in full, plus a reconnection
fee. The exercise of this right by the city shall be in addition to any other
remedy available to the city by law, to collect delinquent amounts owing for
sewer, sewer transportation facilities and sewer measuring devices. (Ord. 93-1,
5-12-1993; amd. 2002 Code)
8-2-7: FIXTURES AND FITTINGS USED IN CONNECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any kind of equipment or materials
in connection with the sewer system, except the kind prescribed or approved by
the city. (1980 Code § 14-221)
8-2-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Use Without Payment: It shall be unlawful for any person by himself,
family, servants or agents to utilize the city sewer system without first
paying therefor, as herein provided, or to in any manner injure, deface or
impair any part of the sewer system. (1980 Code § 14-222)
   B.   Opening Manholes: It shall be unlawful for any person to open any sewer
manhole without permission from the director. (1980 Code § 14-225)
   C.   Materials Detrimental To System:
      1.   No person shall deposit by any means into the building drainage
system or sewer any ashes, calcium carbide or residue therefrom, cinders, rags,
inflammable, poisonous or explosive liquids, gases, oils, grease, garbage,
refuse or other material which would or could either obstruct, damage or
overload such system or which could interfere with the normal operation of
sewage treatment processes.
      2.   Oil separators installed in any building or on any premises where
volatile fluids are used shall not be connected directly or indirectly with the
sewer.
      3.   No person shall introduce waste products from manufacturing,
industrial, laboratory or other operations into the public sewer system until
it has been determined by the authority having jurisdiction that no damage to
the public sewer system or interference with sewage treatment processes will
result, or that adequate pretreatment has been provided.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect with the public
sanitary sewer any drain or pipe which discharges rain water, surface water,
alkali, acids, lye, or other injurious liquids or contents of any spring,
flowing well, creek, ditch, or other watercourse, including underground
seepage.
      5.   No boiler or heating plant shall be directly connected to the
sanitary sewer. The overflow from boilers or heating plants when cooled to a
temperature not to exceed one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120°F) will be
allowed to run into a sump, the sump to be connected into the sewer. (1980 Code
§ 14-226)
      6.   The discharge of the contents of waste pipes from water filters, gas
engines, air compressors, vacuum or dry cleaners, garages, wash racks, stores
or warehouses containing inflammable substances and buildings for the stabling
and keeping of animals and all similar establishments, shall not be made into
or connected with a sanitary sewer, unless such contents are discharged into
settling tanks to be of a construction approved by the public works director
and at all times subject to his inspection and approval or condemnation. Upon
condemnation by the public works director, the sewage from the tanks shall not
be allowed to flow into the sewer until satisfactory alterations shall have
been made and the construction of the alterations approved by the director.
(1980 Code § 14-226; amd. 2002 Code)
8-2-9: INSPECTIONS; REVOCATION:
The inspection of sewer connections between the main sewer and three feet (3')
outside of the building line shall be made by or under the direction of the
director. He shall be notified at least four (4) hours in advance by the
plumber that the connection is complete and ready for inspection. The entire
length of the sewer connection, including a "Y" at the main sewer shall be
fully exposed. No backfilling shall be done until the inspection is made and
the work accepted. If any portion of the work is not done in accordance with
this chapter and the instructions of the director or his inspectors, it shall
be rectified promptly. In the event that the connections are not complete, or
if change makes necessary another inspection, a charge in such amount as
established by resolution of the city council shall be made for each additional
visit. Work done without notice to inspect or without inspection shall be
treated as defective work and shall be condemned uncovered and relaid, if
necessary, to the grade given by the director and inspected by the proper
official upon the proper permits being taken out and paid for. The license of
the plumber or sewer contractor performing such defective work shall be
revoked; no permit shall be issued to any licensed plumber during the time he
shall fail to remedy any defective work and during the time that his license
has been revoked. Written notice of the revocation must be sent by the director
to the address shown on the license being revoked. (1980 Code § 14-224; amd.
2002 Code)
8-2-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 14-229; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TRANSFER OF WATER SHARES OR PAYMENT OF FEE IN LIEU OF TRANSFER
SECTION:
8-3-1: Water Shares Or Fee In Lieu Of Water Shares
8-3-1: WATER SHARES OR FEE IN LIEU OF WATER SHARES:
From the effective date hereof, each owner or developer of real property shall
transfer/contribute one water share of Cub River Water Company water per eight
(8) acres of land proposed for development, to the city as a condition
precedent to the city's authorization for the development of the owner's or
developer's real property for residential, industrial or commercial purposes.
Said water shares shall be used for the present or future development and
operation of the city's secondary irrigation water systems. In addition, the
city shall have the first option or right to purchase all other water shares or
stock owned by the real property owner or developer and which are appurtenant
to and/or have been historically used or would have been used for irrigation or
other purposes on such real property, which water shares or stock are in excess
of those that are required to be contributed to the city as provided for above.
If the required water shares or stock are not owned by the real property owner
or developer, nor are they available to such owner or developer for transfer/
contribution, the city council may approve the transfer/contribution of an
equivalent water right to the city or the payment of a specified fee, as
adopted by resolution of the city council, per acre or parcel of real property
in lieu of the transfer/contribution of water stock, shares or rights. The
required transfer/contribution of water stock or shares, a water right or fee
payment shall relate to each eight (8) acres of real property proposed for
development, or fraction thereof, and shall be prorated in each instance when
less than eight (8) acres are proposed for development. Provided, however, that
the minimum fractional share that must be transferred/contributed shall be no
less than one-fourth (1/4) share. (Ord. 05-06, 10-18-2005)
CHAPTER 4
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROLS
SECTION:
8-4-1: General Policy
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Requirements
8-4-1: GENERAL POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is as follows:
      1.   To protect the public drinking water supply of Lewiston City
Corporation from the possibility of contamination or pollution by requiring
compliance with any applicable laws and regulations of the State of Utah,
including without limitation, Utah Administrative Code § R309-105-12 and the
International Plumbing Code as adopted by the State of Utah ("State Law"),
which requires cross connection control protection of all public drinking water
systems in the State of Utah. Compliance with state law will be considered
reasonable diligence for the prevention of contaminants or pollutants which
could backflow into the public drinking water system;
      2.   To promote the reasonable elimination or control of cross connection
in the plumbing fixtures and industrial piping system(s) of the consumer, as
required by the state and plumbing regulations to assure water system safety;
and
      3.   To provide for the administration of a continuing program of
backflow prevention which will systematically examine risk and effectively
prevent the contamination or pollution of the drinking water system.
   B.   Responsibility: Drinking Water Purveyor:
      1.   Lewiston City Corporation shall be responsible for the protection of
the City's drinking water distribution system from the foreseeable condition
leading to the possible contamination or pollution of the drinking water system
due to the backflow of contaminants or pollutants into the drinking water
supply. The City's Public Works Director shall be the Cross Connection Control
Program Administrator required by state law. 
      2.   Drinking water system surveys/inspections of any portion of the
City's drinking water distribution system(s) shall be conducted or caused to be
conducted by a certified tester. Survey records for any portion of the City's
drinking water distribution system shall indicate compliance with state law.
All such records will be maintained by Lewiston City Corporation.
      3.   Lewiston City Corporation shall schedule and notify in writing, all
consumers of the City's drinking water distribution system of the need for
periodic system surveys to ensure compliance with existing applicable state
law.
      4.   Selection of an approved backflow prevention assembly for
containment control required at the service entrance shall be determined from
the results of the system survey.
   C.   Responsibility: Consumer:
      1.   A consumer's acceptance of water from the City's drinking water
distribution system is an admittance of the consumer's awareness of the
consumer's responsibilities as a water system user.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to purchase, install,
and arrange testing and maintenance of any backflow prevention device/assembly
required to comply with this chapter and state law. Failure to comply with this
chapter shall constitute grounds for discontinuation of service.
   D.   Responsibility: Plumbing Official:
      1.   The City's Building Inspector is the City's Plumbing Official and
shall review all building plans and inspect plumbing as it is installed to
ensure that unprotected cross connections are not an integral part of any
consumer's water system.  If a cross connection cannot be eliminated, the
Building Inspector shall ensure that the system is protected by the
installation of an air gap or an approved backflow prevention device/assembly
in accordance with the state law.
      2.   The Building Inspector's responsibility begins at the point of
service (downstream or consumer side of the meter) and continues throughout the
length of the consumer's water system.
   E.   Responsibility: Certified Backflow Technician, Surveyor, Or Repair
Person:
      1.   Whether employed by the consumer or a utility to survey, test,
repair, or maintain backflow prevention assemblies, the certified tester has
the following responsibilities:
         a.   Ensuring that acceptable testing equipment and procedures are
used for testing, repairing, or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies.
         b.   Make reports of such testing and/or repairs to the consumer and
the City on a form approved for such use by the City within the time frames as
described by the Utah Division of Drinking Water.
         c.   Include the list of materials or replacement parts being used in
the reports.
         d.   Ensuring that replacement parts are equal in quality to parts
originally supplied by the manufacturer of the assembly being repaired.
         e.   Not changing the design, material or operational characteristics
of the assembly during testing, repair or maintenance.
         f.   Performing all tests of the mechanical devices/assemblies and
shall be responsible for the competence and accuracy of all tests and reports.
         g.   Ensuring that his/her license is current, the testing equipment
being used is compliant with state law, and is in proper operating condition.
         h.   Being equipped with, and competent to use, all necessary tools,
gauges, test tags, and other equipment necessary to properly test, and maintain
backflow prevention assemblies.
         i.   Tagging each double check valve, pressure vacuum breaker, reduced
pressure backflow assembly and high hazard air gap, showing the serial number
date tested and by whom. The certified technician's license number must also be
on the tag.
   F.   Responsibility: Repair Of Backflow Assemblies: In the case of a
consumer requiring an assembly to be tested, any currently certified tester is
authorized to make the test and report the results to the consumer and the
City. Any installation, repair, or relocation of a backflow assembly shall be
done by a certified tester. (Ord. 20-01, 4-21-2020)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
                               An assembly accepted by the Utah State
                               Department of Environmental Quality, Division of
APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY:    Drinking Water, as meeting and applicable
                               specification or as suitable for the proposed
                               use.
                               Any water supply on or available to the premises
                               other than the purveyor's public water supply
                               will be considered as an auxiliary water supply.
                               These auxiliary waters may include water from
                               another purveyor's public potable water supply
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY:        or any natural source(s) such as a well, spring,
                               river, stream, etc., or "used waters" or
                               "industrial fluids". These waters may be
                               contaminated or polluted or they may be
                               objectionable and constitute an unacceptable
                               water source over which the water purveyor does
                               not have authority for sanitary control.
BACKFLOW:                      The reversal of the normal flow of water caused
                               by wither back-pressure or back siphonage.
                               The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or
                               substances from a region of high pressure to a
BACK-PRESSURE:                 region of lower pressure into the water
                               distribution pipes of a potable water supply
                               system from any source(s) other than the
                               intended source.
                               The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or
                               substances under vacuum conditions into the
BACK-SIPHONAGE:                distribution pipes of a potable water supply
                               system from any source(s) other than the
                               intended source, caused by the reduction of
                               pressure in the potable water system.
                               An assembly or means designed to prevent
                               backflow. Specifications for backflow prevention
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY:  assemblies are contained within the Plumbing
                               Code as adopted by the State of Utah and in the
                               Cross Connection Control Program for Utah
                               maintained by the Division of Drinking Water.
                               An individual who holds a current Backflow
CERTIFIED TESTER:              Assembly Tester Certificate from the Utah
                               Department of Environmental Quality under Utah
                               Administrative Code R309-305.
                               Any physical connection or arrangement of piping
                               or fixtures which may allow non-potable water or
                               industrial fluids or other material of
                               questionable quality to come into contact with
CROSS CONNECTION:              potable water inside a water distribution
                               system. This would include temporary conditions,
                               such as swing connections, removable sections,
                               four way plug valves, spools, dummy sections of
                               pipe, swivel or change-over devices or sliding
                               multiport tubes or other plumbing arrangements.
                               Means a degradation of the quality of the
CONTAMINATION:                 potable water supply by sewage industrial fluids
                               or waste liquids, compounds or other materials
                               that may create a health hazard.
                               A connection between a potable water system and
                               a non-potable water system with an approved
CROSS CONNECTION- CONTROLLED:  backflow prevention assembly properly installed
                               and maintained so that it will continuously
                               afford the protection commensurate with the
                               degree of hazard.
                               The installation of an approved backflow
                               assembly at the water service connection to any
                               customer's premises where it is physically and
                               economically infeasible to find and/or
                               permanently eliminate or control all actual or
                               potential cross connection within the customer's
                               water distribution system; or, it shall mean the
                               installation of an approved backflow prevention
CROSS CONNECTION- CONTAINMENT: assembly on the service line leading to and
                               supply a portion of a customer's water
                               distribution system; or, it shall mean the
                               installation of a portion of a customer's water
                               system where there are actual or potential cross
                               connections which cannot be effectively
                               eliminated or controlled at the point of the
                               cross connection (isolation). (Ord. 20-01, 4-21-
                               2020)
 
8-4-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Policy:
      1.   No water service connection to any premises may be installed or
maintained unless the water supply is protected as required by state laws,
regulations, codes, and this chapter. A water service connection shall be
deemed unprotected and in violation of this section if any of the following is
true:
         a.   A backflow prevention assembly required by this chapter for the
control of backflow and cross connections is not installed, tested, and
maintained;
         b.   If it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been
removed or by-passed;
         c.   If an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises; or
         d.   If the periodic system survey has not been conducted.
      The foregoing is not meant to be an exhaustive list.
      2.   The customer's system(s) shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the City to determine whether
cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violation
of this chapter exist and to audit the results of the required survey
(R309.105.12 of the Utah Administrative Code).
      3.   Whenever the City deems a service connection's water usage
contributes a sufficient hazard to the water supply, an approved backflow
prevention assembly shall be installed on the service line of the identified
consumer's water system at or near the property line or immediately inside the
building being served; but, in all cases, before the first branch line leading
off the service line.
      4.   The type of protective assembly required under division A.3., shall
depend upon the degree of hazard which exists at the point of cross connection
(whether direct or indirect), applicable to local and state requirements or
resulting from the required survey.
      5.   All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies which do not
meet the requirements of this section but were approved assemblies for the
purposes described herein at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements under division A.6., be excluded from the requirements of these
rules so long as the City is assured that they will satisfactorily protect the
public water system. Whenever the existing is moved from the present location
or requires more than minimum maintenance or when the City finds that the
operation of this assembly constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be
replaced by an approved backflow prevention assembly meeting all local and
state requirements.
      6.   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer at any premises where
backflow prevention assemblies are installed to have certified surveys,
inspections, and operational tests made at least once per year at the
consumer's expense. In those instances where the City deems the hazard to be
great, it may require certified surveys, inspections and tests at a more
frequent interval. The surveys, inspections or tests shall be made according to
the standards set forth by the State Department of Environmental Quality,
Division of Drinking Water.
      7.   All backflow prevention assemblies must be tested within ten (10)
working days of installation.
      8.   No backflow prevention assemblies may be installed so as to create a
safety hazard. (Example: Installed over an electrical panel, steam pipes,
boilers, or above ceiling level).
   B.   Violation Of This Policy: If any water service connection or water
system within the City is found to be in violation of any provision of this
chapter, then the City may suspend or terminate water service to that
connection or system if there has not been any corrective action taken by the
consumer or connection or system user within ten (10) days of the date of
mailing of a written notification of the violation.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the City may terminate or suspend water services to any water
service connection or system that is found to be in violation of any provision
of this chapter immediately if the City determines the violation to be
hazardous to the health, safety, or well-being of any person; in which case,
the City shall provide written notice of the violation and termination or
suspension of the water service to the consumer or user within twenty-four (24)
hours of the termination or suspension. Water services to a water service
connection or system that have been suspended or terminated under this section
may not be restored until such violations are corrected, the connection or
system is deemed by the City to be in conformance with all State and local
regulations and statutes relating to plumbing, safe drinking water suppliers,
and this chapter, and the consumer or user has paid all costs and expenses
incurred by the City in enforcing this chapter, in suspending or terminating
the water service, or in reinstating the water service, including attorney
fees. (Ord. 20-01, 4-21-2020)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code Adopted
9-1-2: Building Official
9-1-3: Building Permit Required
9-1-4: Permit Fee
9-1-5: Penalty; Exception
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
For the purpose of providing minimum standards to safeguard life or limb,
health, property, and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design,
construction, quality of materials, use, and occupancy, location, and
maintenance of the buildings and structures and certain equipment within the
City, that edition of the Building Code, including any amendments, as adopted
by the Utah Uniform Building Codes Commission as the construction standard to
be adhered to by subdivisions of the State 1  is adopted by Lewiston City,
together with administration sections of the Code. (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Section 58-56-4, Utah Code Annotated, or its successor section.
9-1-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the position of building official who
shall also be known as the building inspector, or Code official. (1980 Code §
9-511; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Powers:
      1.   Stop Order: The building inspector shall have the power to order all
work stopped on construction, alteration or repairs of buildings in the City
when such work is being done in violation of any provisions of any ordinance
relating thereto, or in violation of the subdivision or land use ordinances of
the City. Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of such order, except on
the written permission of the inspector; provided, that if the stop order is an
oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such
written stop order may be served by any peace officer or other authorized
person. (1980 Code § 9-512; amd. Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
      2.   Entry: The building inspector shall have the power to enter into any
building or the premises where the work of altering, repairing or constructing
any building or structure is going on for the purpose of making inspections at
any reasonable hour, pursuant to any of the provisions of this title. (1980
Code § 9-513)
   C.   Duties: The building inspector shall, in addition to all other duties
imposed on him by the City:
      1.   Enforce the provisions of the City and State adopted codes
regulating building construction.
      2.   Inspect all buildings, structures, ditches, signs, fences and
objects to determine their safety and effect on the persons who are within the
City. (1980 Code § 9-514; amd. 2002 Code)
      3.   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building site is in a location
that has a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or substantial
improvement (including prefabricated and mobile homes) must:
         a.   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
         b.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         c.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      4.   Review subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments to
assure that:
         a.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
         b.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage; and
         c.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      5.   Require new or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary
sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood
waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters, and
require on site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid impairment
of them or contamination from them during flooding. (1980 Code § 9-514)
9-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Application And Plans:
      1.   A building permit shall be secured from the city recorder on written
application accompanied by plans and specifications in duplicate, which must
state the specific nature of the construction or alterations to be made. The
plan must be verified by the person who will perform or be in charge of the
construction or alteration. (1980 Code § 9-522)
      2.   The application and plans shall be forwarded from the city recorder
to the building inspector, who shall review the plan to determine whether the
proposed construction or alteration conforms to the building codes and
ordinances of the city. The building inspector shall return the plans to the
city recorder within ten (10) days with the statement "approved" if the plans
do conform or "disapproved" if the plans do not conform. If the plans are
disapproved, the reasons therefor shall be annexed to the plans. On receipt of
an approved plan, the city recorder shall issue a permit to the applicant,
together with one set of the approved plan. One set of the plans shall be
retained by the city. The building inspector may revoke at any time any permit
which has been issued for any building constructed or being constructed or
which would be or result, if constructed, in a violation of any ordinance of
the city. (1980 Code § 9-523; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Variations Of Plan Prohibited: No material variation from the approved
plan shall be allowed unless such variations shall first have been approved in
writing by the building inspector. (1980 Code § 9-524)
9-1-4: PERMIT FEE:
The city recorder shall collect a fee for the application of a permit in such
amount as established by resolution of the city council. (1980 Code § 9-525;
amd. 2002 Code)
9-1-5: PENALTY; EXCEPTION:
   A.   It shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, for any homeowner and a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person who receives payment or anything of value to
construct or alter any building or structure, except a fence, without first
securing the permit required by this chapter. (1980 Code § 9-521; amd. 2002
Code)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Electrical Code Adopted
9-2-2: Enforcement Official
9-2-3: Permit Required
9-2-4: Permit Fees
9-2-5: Electrical Installations
9-2-6: Inspection
9-2-7: Electrical Disturbances
9-2-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
That edition of the electrical code, including amendments, as adopted by the
Utah uniform building codes commission as the standard to be adhered to by
subdivisions of the state (section 58-56-4, Utah Code Annotated, or its
successor section) is adopted by Lewiston City, together with the
administration sections of the code. (2002 Code)
9-2-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The building inspector shall perform all functions of electrical inspection and
shall, among other things, inspect and supervise the construction, installation
and repairs of all electric light and power wiring, fixtures, appliances or
apparatus installed within the limits of the city and shall require compliance
with the provisions of the electrical code. Wiring, fixtures and apparatus
heretofore installed need not necessarily be made to conform strictly to all
the provisions of the electrical code. The building inspector shall require the
correction of such defects as he deems actually dangerous to life or property.
Those same enforcement standards established in the building code shall be
followed by the building inspector for all electrical work. (1980 Code § 9-541)
9-2-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No alterations or additions shall be made in existing wiring, nor shall any
wiring or any apparatus which generates, transmits, transforms or utilizes any
electricity be installed without first obtaining a permit therefor, except
minor repair work such as repairing flush and snap switches, replacing fuses,
changing lamp sockets and receptacles, taping bare joints and repairing drop
cords. Applications for such permit describing such work shall be made in
writing and shall conform as far as practicable to the requirement set forth in
subsection 9-1-3A1 of this title. This section shall not apply to installations
in powerhouses and substations belonging to electric light companies. No permit
shall be issued to any applicant for a permit during the time that he shall
fail to correct any defective electrical installations after he has been duly
notified to correct such defective work by the building inspector. (1980 Code §
9-542)
9-2-4: PERMIT FEES:
The electrical permit fees shall be in such amount as established by resolution
of the city council. (1980 Code § 9-543; amd. 2002 Code)
9-2-5: ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS:
   A.   Electrical Permit Required: No person shall engage in the installation,
alteration, repair or construction of any electrical work, wiring, fixtures,
appliances or equipment inside or outside of any building, except work done for
or on the property of the city, without first securing an electrical permit and
paying the fee therefor as provided in section
9-2-4 of this chapter. (1980 Code § 9-551; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Notification To Building Inspector: It shall be unlawful for any person
to do or cause to be done any electrical wiring or other electrical
installation in a building or structure within the city without first notifying
the building inspector of the kind and nature of such electric wiring or other
electrical installation and the location of the building or structure in which
the same is to be installed. (1980 Code § 9-552)
   C.   Subject To Inspection: All electric wiring or other electrical
installations shall be subject to inspection by the building inspector. It
shall be unlawful for any person to do or cause to be done any electrical
wiring or electrical installations without first obtaining the permit required
by section
9-2-3 of this chapter. (1980 Code § 9-553; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Unlawful Installation:
      1.   Disconnection; Seal: If the building inspector shall find any part
of any electric light or power wiring, apparatus or fixtures in or upon any
building in the city to have been installed without permit, or installed not in
accordance with the provisions of the electrical code or to be dangerous to
life or property, the inspector shall have the right and power to disconnect
such defective work, fixtures, appliances or apparatus and place a seal upon
the same, and shall at the same time give written notice of such disconnection
to the owner or occupant of the building.
      2.   Removal Of Seal: After such disconnected wiring, fixtures,
appliances or apparatus have been put in the condition required by this
chapter, the seal so placed shall be removed by order of the inspector. (1980
Code § 9-554; amd. 2002 Code)
9-2-6: INSPECTION:
   A.   Notification; Issuance Of Certificate: Upon completion of the
installation of any electrical wiring, fixtures, appliances or apparatus in or
on any building, it shall be the duty of the person doing the work to notify
the building inspector, who shall cause the same to be inspected and, if
approved, to issue a certificate of inspection which shall contain the date of
such inspection and a statement that the installation is approved.
   B.   Unlawful To Connect Current Without Certificate: It shall be unlawful
for any person to turn on or connect the current with such installation until
such certificate shall be issued and it shall also be unlawful to make any
change, alteration or extension in or to the installation of any electrical
wiring, fixtures, or apparatus in or on any building after inspection without
notifying the building inspector and securing a permit to do so.
   C.   Exception: The requirement of permits, inspection and supervision shall
not apply to minor repair work such as repairing flush and snap switches,
replacing fuses, changing lamp sockets and receptacles, taping bare joints and
repairing drop cords, and wiring for appliances and devices operating at less
than twenty five (25) volts. (1980 Code § 9-555; amd. 2002 Code)
9-2-7: ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCES:
   A.   Declared Nuisance: Electrical installations for signs, equipment or
other facilities which create electrical disturbances that cause interference
with normal radio or television reception beyond the immediate vicinity of such
electrical installations are hereby declared to be a nuisance. The owners or
operators thereof shall so install and maintain such installations as to avoid
or eliminate such interference, using all known means and devices for such
purpose, such as proper grounding, connections, condensers, resistors and live
chokes.
   B.   Abatement: The building inspector shall withhold or withdraw approval
of any electrical installation causing the above disturbance, and is hereby
authorized to take all steps necessary for the abatement of such conditions.
(1980 Code § 9-544)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
9-3-2: Scope
9-3-3: Building Inspector
9-3-4: Permits
9-3-5: Permit Fees
9-3-6: Allowance For Exception
9-3-7: Right Of Entry
9-3-8: Interest In Sale Of Equipment Prohibited
9-3-9: Power To Condemn
9-3-10: Reinspection Charge
9-3-11: Refusal To Comply With Order Of Inspector
9-3-12: Penalty
9-3-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
That edition of the plumbing code, including amendments, as adopted by the Utah
uniform building codes commission as the plumbing standard to be adhered to by
subdivisions of the state (section 58-56-4, Utah Code Annotated, or its
successor section) is adopted by Lewiston City, together with the
administration sections of the code. (2002 Code)
9-3-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to, but not be limited to, all new
construction, relocated buildings and to any installation, alteration, repair
or reconstruction of a plumbing system within the city, except as otherwise
provided for in this chapter. (1980 Code § 9-562)
9-3-3: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Duties: The building inspector shall issue permits to properly
licensed, bonded and registered persons. Licensing should be for work to be
done within the scope of this chapter. The building inspector:
      1.   Shall order changes in workmanship and/or materials essential to
enforce compliance with all provisions of the plumbing code.
      2.   Shall investigate any construction or work regulated by this chapter
and issue such notices and orders as are necessary to prevent or correct
dangerous or unsanitary conditions.
      3.   May recommend the revocation of any license to the state department
of commerce for cause and report to the state department of commerce all
violations of this chapter by journeymen, apprentices or contractors. (1980
Code § 9-563; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-4: PERMITS:
   A.   Required; Application: No plumbing shall be installed, nor additions or
alterations made in existing plumbing, except as provided in subsection C of
this section, without first obtaining a permit. Application for such permits
shall be in writing to the city recorder and shall describe the nature of the
work to be done and affirm that the plumbing will conform to the plumbing code.
No permit shall be issued to any applicant during the time that he shall fail
to correct any defective plumbing installed by him after he has been notified
in writing by the building inspector of the defective work. (1980 Code § 9-568;
amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Homeowners Permit: Any permit required by this chapter may be issued to
any person to do any plumbing or drainage work regulated by this chapter in a
single-family dwelling used exclusively for living purposes, including the
usual accessory buildings and quarters in connection with such buildings, in
the event that any such person is the bona fide owner of any such dwelling and
accessory buildings and quarters and that the same are occupied by or designed
to be occupied by the owner; and further provided, that the owner shall furnish
the building inspector with a complete layout drawing of the proposed work,
satisfies the building inspector that he has a working knowledge of the
requirements contained in this chapter, pays the necessary fees and calls for
all inspections required by this chapter. (1980 Code § 9-573; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Repairs which involve only the working parts of a faucet or valve,
the clearance of stoppages, the repairing of leaks or the replacement of
defective faucets or valves may be made without a permit; provided, that the
permits shall be procured to replace fixtures, traps, soil, waste and vent
pipes, unless waived by the building inspector.
      2.   Any person regularly employed by an owner or lessee of property, or
his agents, for the sole purpose of operating and maintaining such property and
to make minor repairs thereof, and any owner or lessee of property, shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter when doing work for which permits
are not required. (1980 Code § 9-572; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Denial: The building inspector may refuse to issue permits for any
plumbing work to any person who has had a permit revoked in accordance with
this chapter during such time as such person fails to perform plumbing work in
conformance with this chapter. (1980 Code § 9-571; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Expiration: Every permit issued by the building inspector shall expire
and become null and void if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced
within sixty (60) days from the date such permit is issued, or if the work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work
is commenced for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days or more. (1980 Code
§ 9-570; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Revocation: The building inspector may revoke any permit when the
person to whom the permit is issued fails, neglects or refuses to do the work
thereunder in conformance with this chapter, or when the permit is issued in
error. (1980 Code § 9-569; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-5: PERMIT FEES:
Before a permit shall be issued, permit fees in such amount as established by
resolution of the city council shall be paid to the city treasurer. (1980 Code
§ 9-574; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-6: ALLOWANCE FOR EXCEPTION:
Where structural conditions impose extreme difficulty in fully complying with
the plumbing regulations of this chapter, any aggrieved party may apply in
writing to the building inspector for special permission to deviate from the
regulations. If, in the judgment of the building inspector, such deviation is
reasonable and does not create an unsanitary or unsafe condition, he shall
recommend to the city council that the request for deviation be approved or
disapproved, or that approval is subject to such conditions as the city council
may require. The city council, on review, may approve or disapprove the
application or vary the conditions on which approval is granted. (1980 Code §
9-564; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-7: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The building inspector shall have the right of entry within reasonable hours to
any building or premises for the purpose of inspection or to investigate any
work or conditions governed by this chapter. (1980 Code § 9-565; amd. 2002
Code)
9-3-8: INTEREST IN SALE OF EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED:
The building inspector and his assistants shall not in any way engage in the
sale or installation of plumbing equipment upon which they are required to make
inspection hereunder. (1980 Code § 9-567; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-9: POWER TO CONDEMN:
The building inspector is hereby empowered to condemn and order repaired,
removed, replaced or changed any plumbing found in any unsanitary condition or
not in accordance with this chapter. Failure to comply with the order within a
reasonable time is an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 9-566; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-10: REINSPECTION CHARGE:
After notice that any plumbing work is ready for inspection, if the building
inspector calls at the place designated to make such inspection and finds the
work not ready for inspection, he shall charge an additional fee in such amount
as established by resolution of the city council for each additional inspection
required, except that the city council may from time to time change the
inspection fee required in this section by resolution. (1980 Code § 9-575; amd.
2002 Code)
9-3-11: REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF INSPECTOR:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or occupant of any building or
premises to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, remove, replace or change within
ten (10) days after written notice to do so from the building inspector, any
plumbing condemned by such inspector; provided, that this subsection shall not
apply to any occupant not responsible for the installation or repair of the
condemned plumbing. (1980 Code § 9-576; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-12: PENALTY:
   A.   Homeowner, Building Owner Or Manager: The violation of any provision of
this chapter by any homeowner, building owner or manager of any building,
apartment, hotel, motel or other structure shall be an infraction and, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Person Receiving Payment: The violation of any provision of this
chapter by any person who receives payment or anything of value for performing
such work shall be a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 9-577; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Property Maintenance Code Adopted
9-4-2: Relocation Of Existing Buildings
9-4-3: Permit Required
9-4-4: Violations
9-4-1: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
For the purpose of providing minimum standards to safeguard life or limb,
health, property, and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design,
construction, quality of materials, use, and occupancy, location, and
maintenance of existing buildings and structures within the city, the current
edition of the international property maintenance code is adopted by Lewiston
City, January 1, following the date of publication. (2002 Code)
9-4-2: RELOCATION OF EXISTING BUILDINGS:
Existing buildings which are moved or relocated shall be considered as new
buildings and shall comply with all requirements of the building code. (1980
Code § 9-654; amd. 2002 Code)
9-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish any building or structure,
cause or allow the same to be done, without first obtaining a separate building
permit for each such building or structure from the building official in the
manner and according to the applicable conditions prescribed in the
international property maintenance code. (1980 Code § 9-657; amd. 2002 Code)
9-4-4: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of the international property maintenance code or any order issued
by the building inspector pursuant thereto. (1980 Code § 9-656; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Fire Code Adopted
9-5-2: Definitions
9-5-3: Amendments To Code
9-5-4: Establishment And Duties Of Bureau Of Fire Prevention
9-5-5: Fire Districts And Zones Described
9-5-6: Limitations And Storage Of Flammables Restricted
9-5-7: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies
9-5-8: Appeals
9-5-9: Penalty
9-5-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted as the Fire Code by the City, for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and protecting
property from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the Uniform Fire
Code, recommended by the Western Fire Chiefs Association and the International
Conference of Building Officials, being particularly the edition most recently
adopted by the State of Utah, currently or in the future, except to the extent
it is hereinafter modified or amended by section
9-5-3 of this chapter, of which not less than three (3) copies have been and
are now filed in the Office of the City Recorder for use and inspection by the
public. (1980 Code § 10-151; amd. 2002 Code)
9-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
CORPORATION COUNSEL: As used in the Uniform Fire Code, shall mean the attorney
for the City.
JURISDICTION: As used in the Uniform Fire Code, shall mean the boundaries of
the City. (1980 Code § 10-153)
9-5-3: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Any amendments to the Uniform Fire Code shall be as set forth in the
appropriate appendix to such code, which shall be filed in the Office of the
City Recorder. (1980 Code § 10-157; amd. 2002 Code)
9-5-4: ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
   A.   Enforcement: The Uniform Fire Code shall be enforced by the Bureau of
Fire Prevention in the Fire Department of the City, which is hereby established
and which shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   B.   Appointment Of Inspectors: The Chief of the Fire Department may detail
such members of the Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be
necessary. The Chief of the Fire Department shall recommend to the Mayor the
employment of technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall
be selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the position.
The examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the Fire Department,
and appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term, with
removal only for cause. (1980 Code § 10-152)
9-5-5: FIRE DISTRICTS AND ZONES DESCRIBED:
The areas described in this section are hereby established as fire districts or
zones. (1980 Code § 9-533)
   A.   Zone Established: The entire City is declared to be and hereby is
designated a fire zone for the purposes of the Building Code and any ordinances
of the City relating to building and fire prevention. (1980 Code Appendix)
   B.   Districts Established:
      1.   Fire District Number Two: Fire District Number Two shall include all
of those areas of the City located in areas zoned commercial or industrial by
the land use ordinances of the City. (1980 Code Appendix; amd. Ord. 18-01, 1-
16-2018)
      2.   Fire District Number Three: Fire District Number Three shall include
all areas of the City not included in Fire District Number Two. (1980 Code
Appendix)
9-5-6: LIMITATIONS AND STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES RESTRICTED:
   A.   Outside Aboveground Tanks:
      1.   The limits referred to in section 15.201 of the uniform fire code in
which storage of flammable or combustible liquids in outside aboveground tanks
is prohibited, are hereby established in the entire city.
      2.   The limits referred to in section 15.601 of the uniform fire code,
in which new bulk plants for flammable or combustible liquids are prohibited,
are hereby established in the entire city. (1980 Code § 10-154; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Liquefied Petroleum Gases: The limits referred to in section 20.105(a)
of the uniform fire code, in which the bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas
is restricted, are hereby established in the entire city. (1980 Code § 10-155;
amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Explosives And Blasting Agents: The limits referred to in section
11.106(b) of the uniform fire code, in which the storage of explosives and
blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby established in the entire city. (1980
Code § 10-156; amd. 2002 Code)
9-5-7: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES:
The building inspector and the chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall act
as a committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an
opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which
shall require permits in addition to those now enumerated in the fire code. The
chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall post such list in a conspicuous
place in his office and distribute copies thereof to interested persons. (1980
Code § 10-159)
9-5-8: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief shall disapprove an application, refuse to grant a permit
for which application has been received, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the fire code do not apply, or that the true intent and meaning
of the uniform fire code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant may appeal the decision of the chief to the city council within
thirty (30) days from the date of such decision. (1980 Code § 10-158)
9-5-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation; Classification: Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of the uniform fire code or fail to comply therewith, or who shall
violate or fail to comply with any order thereunder, or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from
which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order
as affirmed or modified by the city council or by a court of competent
jurisdiction within the time fixed herein shall, severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue. All persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time, and when
not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Enforced Removal: The application of the above penalty shall not be
held to prevent the enforced removal of the prohibited condition. (1980 Code §
10-160; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 6
WASTEWATER DISPOSAL CODES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Individual Wastewater Disposal Code Adopted
9-6-2: Small Underground Wastewater Disposal System Code Adopted
9-6-1: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISPOSAL CODE ADOPTED:
Part IV, "individual wastewater disposal systems", of the code of waste
disposal regulations, adopted by Utah division of health and Utah state
committee on water pollution in May 1965, as revised by action of the board in
June 1967, and as may have been or will be revised, and issued and published as
a code in book form, three (3) copies of which have been filed for use and
examination by the public in the office of the city recorder, and which
established rules and regulations relating to the disposal of domestic
wastewater discharge from single homes, multiple-dwellings containing not more
than four (4) individual units, and commercial installations serving not more
than fifty (50) persons per day, is hereby adopted by the city as the ordinance
relating to individual wastewater disposal systems within the city except as
such code may be altered or modified by the provisions of this section. (1980
Code § 9-610; amd. 2002 Code)
9-6-2: SMALL UNDERGROUND WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM CODE ADOPTED:
Part V, "small underground wastewater disposal systems" of the code of waste
disposal regulations, adopted by the Utah division of health and Utah state
committee on water pollution in May 1965, as revised by action of the board
June 2, 1967, and June 21, 1967, and as may have been or will be revised, and
issued and published as a code in book form, three (3) copies of which have
been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the city
recorder, is hereby adopted by the city as the small underground wastewater
disposal systems code within the city, except as it may be altered or modified
by the provisions of this section. Occupancies in existing building may be
continued, except as to those structures which are found to be substandard as
defined in the housing code. (1980 Code § 9-620; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MECHANICAL AND FUEL GAS CODES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Codes Adopted
9-7-2: Violations Declared Nuisance
9-7-1: CODES ADOPTED:
For the purpose of providing minimum standards to safeguard life or limb,
health, property, and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design,
construction, installation, quality of materials, location operation and
maintenance or use of heating, ventilating, cooling, refrigeration systems,
incinerators and other miscellaneous heat producing appliances within the city,
that edition of the mechanical code and/or fuel gas code, including any
amendments, as adopted by the Utah uniform building codes commission as the
construction standard to be adhered to by subdivisions of the state (section
58-56-4, Utah Code Annotated, or its successor section) are adopted by Lewiston
City, together with the administration sections of the codes. (2002 Code)
9-7-2: VIOLATIONS DECLARED NUISANCE:
Violation of this chapter is hereby made a nuisance and shall be abated in the
manner provided in section
4-2-6 of this code; provided, that conditions which present an immediate danger
to life may be abated by causing the gas to be immediately turned off. (1980
Code § 9-634)
CHAPTER 8
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
9-8-1: Energy Conservation Codes Adopted
9-8-2: Enforcement; Penalty
9-8-1: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODES ADOPTED:
For the purpose of providing minimum standards to promote energy conservation
in both residential and commercial buildings and structures within the city,
that editions of the residential energy code, and commercial energy code,
including any amendments, as adopted by the state of Utah, are adopted by
Lewiston City. (2002 Code)
9-8-2: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to perform any act
prohibited by this chapter, or to fail or refuse to perform any act commanded
in this chapter, or to aid or abet therein or to fail or refuse to comply with
any valid order issued by the building inspector or his agents pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. No permits shall be issued to any applicant during
the time he shall fail to correct any defective work or noncomplying
installation of equipment after written notice by the building inspector or his
agents. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and any such person convicted
of violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day that any violation of this chapter is
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense. (1980 Code § 9-672;
amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-9-1: Impact Fees Imposed
9-9-2: Service Areas
9-9-3: Time Of Collection
9-9-4: Adjustment Of Impact Fees
9-9-5: Accounting, Expenditure And Refund Of Impact Fees
9-9-6: Administrative Challenges And Appeals Procedure
9-9-7: Challenging An Impact Fee By Arbitration; Procedure, Appeal, Costs
9-9-1: IMPACT FEES IMPOSED:
Impact fees are hereby imposed as a condition of the issuance of a building
permit by the city for any development activity which creates additional demand
and need for public facilities for the culinary water system, wastewater
(sewer) system, and park and recreation facilities as set forth in exhibit A
which is attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by
this reference. (Ord. 03-02, 9-17-2003)
9-9-2: SERVICE AREAS:
The entire area of the city and any areas outside the city serviced by such
systems are hereby designated and established as one service area with respect
to the culinary water system, wastewater (sewer) system and park and recreation
facilities. (Ord. 03-02, 9-17-2003)
9-9-3: TIME OF COLLECTION:
Unless otherwise provided by the city council, impact fees shall be paid to the
city prior to the issuance of a building permit by the city. (Ord. 03-02, 9-17-
2003)
9-9-4: ADJUSTMENT OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The city may adjust the impact fees imposed pursuant to this chapter as
necessary in order to:
      1.   Respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases;
      2.   Ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly;
      3.   Permit the adjustment of the amount of the fee based upon studies
and data submitted by an applicant or developer, as approved by the city
council; and
      4.   Allow a credit against impact fees, as approved by the city council,
for dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of, any system
improvements by the applicant or developer if the facilities are identified in
the city's facilities, capital improvement plan or other reasonable plans and
are required by the city as a condition of approving the development activity.
No credits shall be given for project improvements as defined by the Utah
impact fees act.
   B.   The city planning commission shall have the authority to make such
adjustments based upon information submitted by an applicant or developer and
any recommendations from other appropriate city officials or employees,
including the city engineer.
   C.   The city may adopt policies consistent with this chapter and any
resolutions passed by the city council to assist in the implementation,
administration and interpretation of this chapter related to municipal impact
fees.
   D.   If the applicant, developer, person or entity is not satisfied with the
city planning commission's decision, an appeal may be made to the city council
under the procedures set forth in section
9-9-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-02, 9-17-2003)
9-9-5: ACCOUNTING, EXPENDITURE AND REFUND OF IMPACT FEES:
The city shall account for, expend and refund impact fees collected pursuant to
this chapter in accordance with the provisions of the Utah impact fees act.
(Ord. 03-02, 9-17-2003)
9-9-6: ADMINISTRATIVE CHALLENGES AND APPEALS PROCEDURE:
   A.   Any person or entity required to pay an impact fee imposed by the city
who believes the fee does not meet the requirements of law may file a written
request for information with the city as provided by law.
   B.   Within two (2) weeks of the receipt of the request for information, the
city shall provide the person or entity with the written analysis required by
the act and with any other relevant information relating to the impact fee.
   C.   Within thirty (30) days after paying an impact fee, any person or
entity who has paid the fee and wishes to challenge the fee shall:
      1.   File a written appeal with the Lewiston City recorder setting forth
in detail all factual and legal grounds in support of the appeal and challenge
to the impact fee, and which is relied upon by the appealing party with respect
to the fees challenged. Upon receipt of the written appeal, the city recorder
shall forward the appeal, together with any recommendations from the city
engineer, to the city council and shall schedule a public hearing before the
city council on the appeal for the purpose of receiving input from all
interested persons. The city council shall thereafter render its decision on
the appeal no later than thirty (30) days after the date the appeal was filed
with the city recorder. Any person or entity who has failed to comply with the
administrative remedies established by this section may not file or join an
action challenging the validity of any impact fee.
   D.   Any person or entity who was a party to an appeal under this section
who is adversely affected by the decision of the city council may petition the
district court for a review of the decision within ninety (90) days of a
decision upholding an impact fee by the city council or within one hundred
twenty (120) days after the date the challenge to the impact fee was filed,
whichever is earlier. The petition for review of the decision shall be filed in
the first district court for Cache County.
   E.   In the event a petition is filed with the district court, the city
shall transmit to the reviewing court the record of its proceedings including
its minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a true and correct transcript
of its proceedings.
   F.   If the proceeding was tape recorded, a transcript of that tape
recording is a true and correct transcript for the purposes of subsection E of
this section.
   G.   If there is a record:
      1.   The district court's review is limited to the record provided by the
city; and
      2.   The district court may not accept or consider any evidence outside
the city's record unless that evidence was offered to the city and the court
determines that it was improperly excluded by the city.
   H.   If there is an inadequate record, the court may call witnesses and take
evidence.
   I.   The district court shall affirm the decision of the city if the
decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record.
   J.   The judge may award reasonable attorney fees and costs to the
prevailing party in an action brought under this section. (Ord. 03-02, 9-17-
2003)
9-9-7: CHALLENGING AN IMPACT FEE BY ARBITRATION; PROCEDURE, APPEAL, COSTS:
   A.   Each person or entity intending to challenge an impact fee under
section
9-9-6 of this chapter shall file a written request for arbitration with
Lewiston City within thirty (30) days.
   B.   If a person or entity files a written request for arbitration under
subsection A of this section, an arbitrator or arbitration panel shall be
selected as follows:
      1.   The city and the person or entity filing the request may agree on a
single arbitrator within ten (10) days after the day the request for
arbitration is filed; or
      2.   If a single arbitrator is not agreed to in accordance with
subsection B1 of this section, an arbitration panel shall be created with the
following members:
         a.   Each party shall select an arbitrator within twenty (20) days
after the day the request is filed; and
         b.   The arbitrators selected under subsection B2a of this section
shall select a third arbitrator.
   C.   The arbitration panel shall hold a hearing on the challenge within
thirty (30) days after the date:
      1.   The single arbitrator is agreed on under subsection B1 of this
section; or
      2.   The two (2) arbitrators are selected under subsection B2a of this
section.
   D.   The arbitrator or arbitration panel shall issue a decision in writing
within ten (10) days from the date the hearing under subsection C of this
section is completed.
   E.   Except as provided in this section, each arbitration shall be governed
by title 78B, chapter 11, Utah arbitration act.
   F.   The parties may agree to:
      1.   Binding arbitration;
      2.   Formal, nonbinding arbitration; or
      3.   Informal, nonbinding arbitration.
   G.   If the parties agree in writing to binding arbitration:
      1.   The arbitration shall be binding;
      2.   The decision of the arbitration panel shall be final;
      3.   Neither party may appeal the decision of the arbitration panel; and
      4.   Notwithstanding subsection J of this section, the person or entity
challenging the impact fee may not also challenge the impact fee under any
subsection of section
9-9-6 of this chapter nor under subsections 11-36-401(1), (4)(c)(i), or (4)(c)
(iii) of the Utah state code.
   H.   1. Except as provided in subsection H2 of this section, if the parties
agree to formal, nonbinding arbitration, the arbitration shall be governed by
the provisions of title 63G, chapter 4, administrative procedures act.
      2.   For purposes of applying title 63G, chapter 4, administrative
procedures act, to formal, nonbinding arbitration under this section,
notwithstanding section 63G-4-103, "agency" means Lewiston City.
   I.   1. An appeal from a decision in an informal, nonbinding arbitration may
be filed with the first district court.
      2.   Each appeal under subsection I1 of this section shall be filed
within thirty (30) days after the date the arbitration panel issues a decision
under subsection D of this section.
      3.   The district court shall consider de novo each appeal filed under
this subsection I.
      4.   Notwithstanding subsection J of this section, a person or entity
that files an appeal under this subsection I may not also challenge the impact
fee under any subsection of section
9-9-6 of this chapter nor under subsection 11-36-401(1), (4)(c)(i), or (4)(c)
(iii) of the Utah state code.
   J.   1. Except as provided in subsections G4 and I4 of this section, this
section may not be construed to prohibit a person or entity from challenging an
impact fee as provided in section
9-9-6 of this chapter, or subsection 11-36-401(1), (4)(c)(i), or (4)(c)(iii) of
the Utah state code.
      2.   The filing of a written request for arbitration within thirty (30)
days tolls all time limitations under section
9-9-6 of this chapter until the date the arbitration panel issues a decision.
   K.   The person or entity filing a request for arbitration and Lewiston City
shall equally share all costs of an arbitration proceeding under this section.
(Ord. 03-02, 9-17-2003)
TITLE 10
LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: Conflict
10-1-5: Effect Upon Previous Ordinance And Map
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the LAND USE ORDINANCE OF LEWISTON, UTAH,
hereinafter "this title", and may be so cited and pleaded. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-
2018)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of the City, including, amongst other things, the lessening
of congestion in the streets or roads, securing safety from fire and other
dangers, providing adequate light and air, classification of land uses and
distribution of land development and utilization, protection of the tax base,
securing economy in governmental expenditures, fostering the City's commercial
and industrial growth, and the protection of both residential and
nonresidential development. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements
contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes
set forth. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-1-4: CONFLICT:
This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants,
agreements or other ordinances or laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such
provisions which are less restrictive. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-1-5: EFFECT UPON PREVIOUS ORDINANCE AND MAP:
The existing zoning ordinance of the City, including the maps which are on file
in the City office, is hereby superseded and amended to read as set forth
herein; provided, however, that this title shall be deemed a continuation of
the previous ordinance, and not a new enactment, insofar as the substance of
revisions of the previous ordinance is included, whether in the same or in
different language; and this title shall be so interpreted upon all questions
of construction, including, but not limited to, questions of construction
relating to tenure of officers and boards established by previous ordinances
and to questions of conforming or nonconforming uses, buildings or structures,
and to questions as to dates upon which such uses, buildings or structures
became conforming or nonconforming. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Building Inspector To Enforce
10-2-2: Permits To Comply
10-2-3: Powers And Duties Of Building Inspector
10-2-4: Changes And Amendments
10-2-5: Areas Annexed
10-2-6: Licensing
10-2-7: Penalty
10-2-1: BUILDING INSPECTOR TO ENFORCE:
The building inspector, appointed under the provisions of the Building Code of
the City, is hereby designated and authorized as the officer charged with the
enforcement of this title, but the City Council, by resolution or ordinance,
may from time to time entrust such administration, in whole or in part, to any
other office of the City without amendment to this title. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-
2018)
10-2-2: PERMITS TO COMPLY:
From the time of the effective date hereof the building inspector shall not
grant a permit for the construction or alteration of any building or structure
or the moving of a building or structure onto a lot, if such building or
structure would be in violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor
shall any City officer grant any permit or license for the use of any building
or land if such use would be in violation of this title. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-
2018)
10-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to inspect or cause to be
inspected all buildings in the course of construction or repair. He shall
enforce all of the provisions of this title, entering actions in the court when
necessary, and his failure to do so shall not legalize any violation of such
provisions. The building inspector shall not issue any permit unless the plans
of and for the proposed erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use fully conform to all land use regulations then in effect. (Ord. 18-01, 1-
16-2018)
10-2-4: CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS:
This title, including the map(s), may be amended from time to time by the City
Council after such notice and public hearing(s) as are required by State law 1
. All proposed amendments shall be first proposed by the Planning Commission or
shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for its recommendation, which
shall be returned to the City Council for its consideration within sixty (60)
days, unless for cause stated in the minutes of the Planning Commission, such
time is extended for no more than an additional sixty (60) days. Failure of the
Planning Commission to submit its recommendation within the prescribed time
shall be deemed approval by such commission of the proposed change or
amendment. The City Council may adopt or reject the proposed amendment to this
title, including the map(s), after making any revision the City Council
considers appropriate. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-9a-205 and as it may be amended.
10-2-5: AREAS ANNEXED:
All property hereafter annexed to the City shall be zoned as determined by the
legislative body during the process of annexation. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-2-6: LICENSING:
All departments, officials and public employees of the City which are vested
with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the
provisions of this title and shall issue no permit or license for uses,
buildings or purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions
of this title, and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the
provisions of this title, shall be null and void. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation whether as principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, violating or causing or permitting the violation of the provisions
of this title, including the provisions of a validly issued conditional use
permit, shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and such person, firm or corporation shall be deemed to be
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during which any portion of
any violation of this title is committed, continues or permitted by such
person, firm or corporation. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 3
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Building Permit Required
10-3-2: Certificate Of Occupancy Required
10-3-1: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
The construction, alteration, repair, removal or occupancy of any structure or
any part thereof, as provided or as restricted in this title, shall not be
commenced, or proceeded with, except after the issuance of a written permit for
the same by the building inspector. A building permit shall be null and void
twelve (12) months after the date it was issued unless substantial work shall
have been commenced and accomplished towards the completion or other
construction for which it was issued. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-3-2: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building hereafter structurally
altered or erected shall be used or changed in use, until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the building inspector, stating that the
building or the proposed use thereof, or the use of the land, complies with the
provisions of this title or for the renewing, changing or extending of a
nonconforming use. A certificate of occupancy either for the whole or a part of
a building or structure shall be applied for coincidentally with the
application for a building permit, and shall be issued within the ten (10) days
after the erection or structural alteration of such building or structure, or
part thereof, shall have been completed in conformity with the provisions of
this title. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 4
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-4-1: Created; Compensation
10-4-2: Terms; Removal; Vacancies
10-4-3: Qualifications; Appointment
10-4-4: Officers
10-4-5: Meetings
10-4-6: Quorum
10-4-7: Powers And Duties
10-4-8: Reports And Records
10-4-9: Appeals
10-4-1: CREATED; COMPENSATION:
There is created a Planning Commission to be composed of five (5) members.
Members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation, except for
reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties as members of the
commission. A member of the City Council may be appointed as a member of the
Planning Commission. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-4-2: TERMS; REMOVAL; VACANCIES:
The terms of the Planning Commission shall be staggered. Each member of the
Planning Commission shall serve for a term of five (5) years and until his
successor is appointed; providing, that the term of the first members shall be
such that the term(s) of one member(s) shall expire each year. Terms of members
of the Planning Commission shall begin on or before the first Monday in
February of each year. The City Council may remove any member of the Planning
Commission for cause and after a public hearing, if one is requested. Vacancies
shall be promptly filled in the same manner as the original appointment for the
remainder of the unexpired term. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-4-3: QUALIFICATIONS; APPOINTMENT:
Members of the Planning Commission shall, at the time of appointment and
throughout their term of service, reside within the corporate limits of the
City. Members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the City Council and shall be selected without regard to political
consideration and solely upon their qualifications for the position. Members
may serve multiple terms. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-4-4: OFFICERS:
The members of the Planning Commission shall elect one of their own members as
Chairperson, and such other officers as deemed necessary, and shall adopt rules
and regulations for their organization and for the transaction of business and
the conduct of their proceedings. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-4-5: MEETINGS:
The Planning Commission shall meet at least once each month at a regular time
determined by the commission. Additional meetings may be called by the Chairman
or a quorum of the commission as conditions require or as the commission may
determine. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-4-6: QUORUM:
Three (3) members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum. (Ord.
18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-4-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Planning Commission shall have all the duties and powers explicitly or
impliedly given by laws of the State of Utah and this title. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-
2018)
10-4-8: REPORTS AND RECORDS:
Reports of official acts and recommendations of the Planning Commission shall
be public and shall be made in writing by the Secretary, who shall be an
employee of the City. The report shall indicate the vote of the commission on
each item brought before them. Any member of the commission may also make a
concurring or dissenting report or recommendation to the City Council. (Ord.
18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-4-9: APPEALS:
Appeal of any decision of the Planning Commission shall be to the Appeal
Authority under the requirements as stipulated under section
10-5-3 of this title, Appeal Authority. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 5
APPEAL AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-5-1: Appeal Authority Responsibility
10-5-2: Appointment Of Lewiston Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer
10-5-3: Appealing Land Use Authority's Decision
10-5-4: Variances
10-5-1: APPEAL AUTHORITY RESPONSIBILITY:
The authority to hear requests for variances from the terms of the land use
ordinances and appeals from decisions applying the land use ordinances shall be
vested in the Lewiston Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer, also referred to
as the Appeals Hearing Officer, or the Appeal Authority. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-
2018)
10-5-2: APPOINTMENT OF LEWISTON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS HEARING OFFICER:
The Mayor shall appoint the Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer with the
advice and consent of the City Council. The Administrative Appeals Hearing
Officer shall be appointed for a period of three (3) years, may be removed by a
majority vote of the City Council at any time, and may serve until a
replacement is appointed. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-5-3: APPEALING LAND USE AUTHORITY'S DECISION:
An applicant, a board or officer of the City, or any person adversely affected
by the Land Use Authority's decision applying a land use ordinance may, within
the time period provided in subsection A of this section, appeal that decision
to the Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer by alleging there is an error in
an order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Land Use
Authority in the administration or interpretation of the land use ordinance, or
in the decision applying the land use ordinance. When an appeal is taken from a
decision of the Land Use Authority, the City Recorder shall immediately
transmit to the Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer all papers, if any,
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   A.   Time To Appeal; Filing Fee: Any appeal, pursuant to this section, must
be filed in writing, on forms provided by the City, with the Office of the City
Recorder within ten (10) calendar days of the issuance of the written decision
or vote of the Land Use Authority, whichever first occurs, applying the land
use ordinance. Upon the filing of any appeal with the City Recorder, the
appellant shall pay to the City Recorder, the fee prescribed by the City
Council. The City Recorder shall transmit no papers or record to the
Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer and the Administrative Appeals Hearing
Officer shall not consider any appeal unless and until such fee has been paid.
   B.   Time For Hearing Appeal: Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer should
hear the appeal within fifteen (15) to thirty (30) days of the date the appeal
was filed.
   C.   Written Statement Setting Forth Theories Of Relief Required: The
appellant shall deliver to the Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer and all
other participants, five (5) business days prior to the hearing, a written
statement setting forth each and every theory of relief he intends to raise at
the hearing, along with a brief statement of facts in support thereof.
   D.   Conditions Precedent To Judicial Review: No person, board, or officer
of the City may seek judicial review of any decision applying the land use
ordinance until after challenging the Land Use Authority's decision in
accordance with this section. No theory of relief may be raised in the District
Court unless it was timely and specifically presented to the Administrative
Appeals Hearing Officer.
   E.   Standard Of Review And Burden Of Proof On Appeal: The Administrative
Appeals Hearing Officer shall, on appeal, presume that the decision applying
the land use ordinance is valid and determine only whether or not the decision
is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. The burden of proof on appeal is on the
appellant.
   F.   Due Process Rights: The Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer shall
respect the due process rights of each participant. Any appellant may appear at
any hearing or other proceeding before the Administrative Appeals Hearing
Officer in person or by an attorney of his/her choice.
   G.   Stay On Appeal: An appeal filed in accordance with this section stays
all proceedings in the appeal action, unless the officer from whom the appeal
is taken certifies to the Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate the stay would in his/her opinion cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such cases, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by restraining order which may be granted by the
Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer or by the District Court on application
and notice and on due cause shown.
   H.   Conditional Use Permit Appeals: The City Council shall continue to hear
and decide appeals from the Planning Commission decisions regarding conditional
use permits.
   I.   Direct Appeal To District Court: Notwithstanding the foregoing,
decisions of the City Council relative to adopting or amending the General Plan
or any other land use ordinance may only be appealed directly to the District
Court.
   J.   Decision Of Appeal: In exercising the above-mentioned powers and
authority, the Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer may affirm or reverse,
wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Land Use Authority. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-5-4: VARIANCES:
Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the requirements of a
land use ordinance as applied to a parcel of property that the person or entity
owns, leases, or in which the person or entity holds some other beneficial
interest may apply to the Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer for a variance
from the terms of the ordinance.
   A.   1. The Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer may grant a variance only
if:
         a.   Literal enforcement of the ordinance would cause an unreasonable
hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general
purpose of the land use ordinances; and
         b.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do
not generally apply to other properties in the same zone; and
         c.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same zone; and
         d.   The variance will not substantially affect the General Plan and
will not be contrary to the public interest; and
         e.   The spirit of the land use ordinance is observed and substantial
justice done.
      2.   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection A1 of this section, the
Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer may not find an unreasonable hardship
unless the alleged hardship:
         a.   Is located on or associated with the property for which the
variance is sought; and
         b.   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
conditions that are general to the neighborhood.
      3.   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection A1 of this section, the
Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer may not find an unreasonable hardship if
the hardship is self-imposed or economic.
      4.   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances
attached to the property under subsection A1 of this section, the
Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer may find that special circumstances
exist only if the special circumstances:
         a.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
         b.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in
the same zone.
   B.   The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the
conditions justifying a variance have been met.
   C.   Variances run with the land.
   D.   The Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer may not grant a use
variance.
   E.   In granting a variance, the Administrative Appeals Hearing Officer may
impose additional requirements on the applicant that will:
      1.   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
      2.   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
10-6-2: Purpose Of Zoning Districts
10-6-3: Zoning District Boundaries
10-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
For the purpose of this title, the following zones are created to be applied as
necessary to regulate the development of the land in the City:
Agriculture Zone (A)
Residential Zone (R-1-10)
Residential Zone (R-1-12)
Commercial Zone (C)
Manufacturing Zone (M-1) (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-6-2: PURPOSE OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Agriculture Zone (A): The purpose of this zone is to preserve
appropriate areas of the City for permanent agricultural use. Uses normally and
necessarily related to agriculture are permitted and uses inimical to the
continuance of agricultural activity are not allowed.
   B.   Residential Zone (R-1-10): The purpose of this zone is to provide
appropriate locations where low density residential neighborhoods with a
minimum lot area of ten thousand (10,000) square feet may be established,
maintained and protected. The regulations also permit the establishment of,
with proper controls, the public and semipublic uses such as churches, schools,
libraries, parks and playgrounds, which serve the requirements of families. The
regulations are intended to prohibit those uses that would be harmful to a
single family neighborhood.
   C.   Residential Zone (R-1-12): The purpose of this zone is to provide
appropriate locations where low density residential neighborhoods with a
minimum lot area of twelve thousand (12,000) square feet may be established,
maintained and protected. The regulations also permit the establishment of,
with proper controls, the public and semipublic uses such as churches, schools,
libraries, parks and playgrounds, which serve the requirements of families. The
regulations are intended to prohibit those uses that would be harmful to a
single family neighborhood.
   D.   Commercial Zone (C): The purpose of this zone is to provide areas for
community retail and service activities in locations to conveniently serve the
residents.
   E.   Manufacturing Zone (M-1): The purpose of this zone is to provide areas
where industries necessary and beneficial to the local economy may locate and
operate. The regulations of this zone are designed to protect and preserve the
environment of this zone, adjacent areas and the entire Municipality. (Ord. 18-
01, 1-16-2018)
10-6-3: ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   The boundaries of each of the said zones are hereby established as
described herein or shown on the map entitled zoning map of Lewiston, Utah,
which map is attached to the ordinance codified herein, which is on file in the
City office, and all boundaries, notations and other data shown thereon are
made by this reference as much a part of this title as if fully described and
detailed herein.
   B.   The ordinance codified herein and map shall be filed in the custody of
the City Recorder and may be examined by the public subject to any reasonable
regulations established by the City Recorder.
   C.   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following
rules shall apply:
      1.   Wherever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon
the center line of a street, alley or block, or along a property line, then,
unless otherwise definitely indicated on the map, the center line of such
street, alley or block or such property line, shall be construed to be the
boundary of such zone.
      2.   Whenever such boundary line of such zone is indicated as being
approximately at the line of any river, irrigation canal or other waterway or
railroad right-of-way, or public park or other public land, or any section
line, then in such case the center of such stream, canal or waterway, or of
such railroad right-of-way or the boundary lines of such public land, or such
section line, shall be deemed to be the boundary of such zone. (Ord. 18-01, 1-
16-2018)
CHAPTER 7
LAND USE DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Other Terms Defined
10-7-3: Use Related Definitions
10-7-4: General Definitions
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide use related definitions for uses
specific to this title and general definitions related to this title. (Ord. 18-
01, 1-16-2018)
10-7-2: OTHER TERMS DEFINED:
   A.   Whenever any words or phrases used in this title are not defined
herein, but are defined in related sections of the Utah Code, City subdivision
ordinance, or the family of International Building Codes, such definitions are
incorporated herein and shall apply as though set forth herein in full, unless
the context clearly indicates a contrary intention as determined by the City
Land Use Authority. For any words not specifically defined in the codes as
noted, the current online Merriam-Webster Dictionary must be used to determine
meaning within the context in which they are used as determined by the Land Use
Authority.
   B.   Unless a contrary intention clearly appears, words used in the present
tense include the future, the singular includes the plural, the term "shall" is
always mandatory, and the term "may" is permissive. The following terms as used
in this title shall have the respective meanings hereinafter set forth. (Ord.
18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-7-3: USE RELATED DEFINITIONS:
   A.   These are terms used within chapter 8, "Schedule Of Uses", of this
title, to identify specific uses regulated within the Lewiston City land use
ordinance.
RESIDENTIAL USES:
   1100 SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING: A building containing only one dwelling unit.
Only one single family dwelling is allowed per legal lot/parcel. A single
accessory apartment may be approved as part of a single family dwelling.
   Accessory kitchens may be allowed as long as there is no ability to serve as
a second dwelling unit. Structures accessory to a single family dwelling are
also permitted and include, but are not limited to, typical structures such as
a shed, stable, garage, car port, and similar. A Mobile Home, Camper, or
Trailer is not considered a single family dwelling under the terms of this
Title unless it is placed on a permanent foundation, has its wheels removed,
and meets all relevant Building Code requirements under this Code.
   1110 ACCESSORY APARTMENT: One or more rooms with private bath and kitchen
facilities comprising an independent, self-contained dwelling unit located
within an existing primary dwelling unit. An accessory apartment must also
comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Be located within an existing single-family dwelling which has been
designated, built, or converted to accommodate an independent housing unit.
      2.   Must meet minimum health and safety requirements with respect to
sanitation, water, drainage, and all applicable Health Codes, and must also
comply with all applicable Zoning, Building, and Safety Codes, including the
obtaining of a building permit.
      3.   See chapter 16 of this title for additional requirements.
   1120 TEMPORARY DWELLING: A dwelling unit located on a property for a limited
period of time.
      1.   Where a primary dwelling is present, an accessory, temporary
dwelling may only be approved if:
         a.   The primary dwelling is in conformance with all provisions of
this title; and
         b.   It is placed within one hundred feet (100') of the primary
dwelling, but not closer than twelve feet (12'); and
         c.   It is set back from the property line a distance equal to or
greater than the setback of the primary dwelling; and
         d.   It has a separate connection to the Municipal water system; and
         e.   It is placed no closer than five hundred feet (500') to private
property in separate ownership unless the owner of such property provides
written approval; and
         f.   No rent is collected for the use of the site or the temporary
dwelling.
      2.   Where no primary dwelling exists, a dwelling may be approved as a
temporary residence for an owner, operator, or employee engaged in an activity
on the premises of a permitted agricultural or business operation; provided,
however, that written approval must first be obtained from owners of all
adjacent property and further, that no rent may be collected for use of the
site or the temporary dwelling.
      3.   The Planning Commission and/or the City Council may impose
additional requirements relative to placement, screening, time limits, and
foundations, as a part of the conditional use permitting process.
   1200 HOME BASED BUSINESS: A use incidental and secondary to a property's
primary residential use, and that does not alter the exterior of the property
so as to affect the residential character of the site. The only employees
working at the home shall be the residents of the home. Typical uses include:
      1.   Home Office: A business which is comprised of an office in the home,
consulting services, internet based business, or service activities that are
managed from the home and occur away from the residential property. This
includes sales activities where the business proprietor makes the primary sales
transaction at another location such as demonstration sales or sales parties
(i.e., cosmetics, cutlery, vacuums, etc.).
      2.   Home Day Care/Preschool: A program providing care in an occupied
dwelling operated by residents of that dwelling in which lessons and/or care
are provided for not more than eight (8) children. The State licensed and/or
reviewed capacity must include all children less than four (4) years of age of
any caregiver when their children are present in the residence. Preschool
sessions shall last for not more than four (4) hours and shall not overlap.
      Individual children may attend only one preschool session in any twenty-
four (24) hour period. Refer to Utah Code Annotated section 26-39 Utah Child
Care Licensing Act for State licensing requirements.
      3.   Minor Service Provision: Services where occasional client meetings
may occur at the home, other services where there is little to no customer
traffic to the home.
      4.   Minor Production: Production of goods that can be completed within
the existing home typically including food goods, arts/crafts, or woodworking.
   1300 MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING: A building containing two (2) or more
dwelling units; excludes a single family dwelling with an accessory apartment.
      1.   Must be located such that the density is equivalent to no greater
than one multiple family dwelling per block within the R-1 Zone, and may only
be allowed and established where there is a minimum of five hundred feet (500')
between the nearest point on the boundary line of the lot on which a multiple
family dwelling is proposed and the nearest point on the boundary line of any
other parcel or lot on which a multiple family dwelling exists or is proposed
for construction at the same time.
   1400 RESIDENTIAL LIVING FACILITY: A general term for the following types of
facilities:
      1.   Residential Facility For Persons With A Disability: A single-family
dwelling unit in which more than one person with a disability resides and which
is licensed or certified by the Utah Department of Human Services under Utah
Code Annotated 62A-2-101 et seq., as amended, or the Utah Department of Health
under Utah Code Annotated section 26-21-3 et seq., as amended. Treatment is not
a necessary component of a residential facility for persons with a disability,
but may be provided upon request. Any treatment provided shall be clearly
ancillary to the use of the facility as a residence.
      2.   Foster Home: As licensed by the State of Utah and defined within
Utah State Code 62A-2-101.
   1500 MOBILE HOMES, TRAILERS, AND CAMPERS: Transportable structures with or
without wheels, designed to be used for human habitation.
      1.   A mobile home, trailer, or camper may be approved for use in an
agricultural zone (A) as a temporary second dwelling; provided that:
         a.   The primary dwelling is in conformance with all provisions of
this title;
         b.   It is placed within one hundred feet (100') of the primary
dwelling, but not closer than twelve feet (12');
         c.   It is set back from the property line a distance equal to or
greater than the setback of the primary dwelling;
         d.   It has a separate connection to the Municipal water system;
         e.   It is placed no closer than five hundred feet (500') to private
property in separate ownership unless the owner of such property provides
written approval; and
         f.   No rent is collected for the use of the site or the temporary
dwelling.
      2.   Where no primary dwelling exists, a mobile home, trailer, or camper
may be approved as a temporary residence for an owner, operator, or employee
engaged in an activity on the premises of a permitted agricultural or business
operation; provided, however, that written approval must first be obtained from
owners of all adjacent property and further, that no rent may be collected for
use of the site or the temporary dwelling.
      3.   The Planning Commission and/or the City Council may impose
additional requirements relative to placement, screening, time limits, and
foundations, as a part of the conditional use permitting process.
SERVICES, PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL:
2100 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: A use that offers any type of personal
administrative, executive, professional, research, or similar functions, and
laboratories having only limited contact with public, provided that no
merchandise or merchandising services are sold on the premises, except such as
are incidental or accessory to the principal use, to the public and requires,
as a condition precedent to the rendering of such service, the obtaining of a
license or other legal authorization. Professional services typically include,
but are not limited to, services rendered by: certified public accountants,
public accountants, engineers, chiropractors, dentists, osteopaths, physicians
and surgeons, podiatrists, morticians, architects, veterinarians, attorneys at
law, physical therapists, and life insurance agents.
2200 HUMAN CARE SERVICES: A general term for the following uses as licensed by
the State of Utah and defined within Utah State Code (UCA):
      1.   Adult Day Care - Utah Code Annotated 62A-2-101.
      2.   Assisted Living Facility - Utah Code Annotated 26-21-2.
      3.   Child Care Program or Preschool - Utah Code Annotated 26-39-102.
      4.   Domestic Violence Treatment Program - Utah Code Annotated 62A-2-101.
      5.   Long Term Care Facility - Utah Code Annotated 62A-3-202.
      6.   Nursing Care Facility - Utah Code Annotated 26-21-2.
      7.   Residential Support - Utah Code Annotated 62A-2-101.
      8.   Residential Treatment Program - Utah Code Annotated 62A-2-101.
      9.   Youth Program - Utah Code Annotated 62A-2-101.
      10.   Secure Treatment - Utah Code Annotated 62A-2-101.
      11.   Substance Abuse Treatment Program - Utah Code Annotated 62A-2-101.
      12.   Outpatient Treatment - 62A-2-101.
      13.   Day Treatment - Utah Code Annotated 62A-2-101.
      14.   Healthcare Facility - Utah Code Annotated 26-21-2.
      15.   Hospital - Utah Code Annotated 26-36a-103.
2300 GENERAL VEHICLE REPAIR: Any building, structure, improvements, or land
used for the repair and maintenance of small engines, automobiles, motorcycles,
trucks, trailers, tractors, or similar vehicles including but not limited to
body, fender, muffler, or upholstery work, oil change and lubrication,
painting, tire service and sales, but excludes dismantling or salvage.
2400 RESTAURANT: A commercial establishment where food and beverages are
prepared, served, and consumed primarily within the principal building and
where food sales constitute more than eighty percent (80%) of the gross sales
receipts for food and beverages.
2410 MOBILE FOOD TRUCK: A temporary food service establishment, which has a
duration limited to six (6) months at any single location, that is a vehicle
mounted food service establishment designed to be readily movable.
2500 TRANSIENT LODGING: A general term for the following uses:
      1.   Motel: A building or group of buildings for the accommodation of
transient guests, comprising individual sleeping or living units, and designed
and located to serve the motoring public.
      2.   Hotel: An establishment with or without fixed cooking facilities in
individual rooms offering transient lodging accommodations to the general
public, and which may provide additional services such as restaurants and
meeting rooms.
2510 BED AND BREAKFAST INN: An owner occupied dwelling offering transient
lodging accommodations where meals may be provided. A bed and breakfast inn may
have no more than four (4) guestrooms.
INSTITUTIONAL, PUBLIC, AND UTILITY USES:
3110 CEMETERY: A place designated for the burial or keeping of the remains of
the dead, whether human or animal, including crematories and mausoleums, and
meeting all applicable local, State, and Federal requirements and regulations.
3120 PUBLIC PARK: Any area that is predominately open space, used principally
for active or passive recreation, and not used for a profitmaking purpose. Any
area designated by the City as a park.
3130 PUBLIC USES: A use operated exclusively by a State or Federal public
entity over which the City has no jurisdiction in compliance with 10-9a-304,
Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended.
3140 RELIGIOUS MEETING HOUSE: A building wherein persons regularly assemble for
religious worship and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body
organized to sustain public worship, together with all accessory buildings and
uses customarily associated with such primary purpose; e.g., synagogue, temple,
mosque, or other such place for worship and religious activities.
3150 EDUCATIONAL FACILITY: Any building or part thereof which is designed,
constructed, or used for education or instruction by a public or private
organization in any branch of knowledge, but excluding preschool centers.
Includes the following uses as licensed by the State of Utah and defined within
Utah State Code 62A-2-101:
      1.   Boarding school.
      2.   Therapeutic school.
3160 CORRECTIONAL FACILITY: Facilities for the judicially required detention or
incarceration of people, where inmates and detainees are under 24-hour
supervision by professionals, except when on approved leave. If the use
otherwise complies with this definition, a correctional facility may include,
by way of illustration, a prison, jail, or probation center.
3210 UTILITY FACILITY, TRANSMISSION: A general term for the following uses.
These uses are not required to be located on a building lot or to comply with
the minimum lot size requirement for the district in which it is located.
      1.   Electric Transmission Line: A power transmission line, either above
or below ground, designed to provide electric transmission at voltages of one
hundred forty thousand (140,000) volts (140 kV), or greater, and that may
provide for interstate power transmission, power transmission between
substations, or to provide power to customers or areas located outside of the
City.
      2.   Gas Pipeline Right-Of-Way: A gas transmission pipeline of twelve
inches (12") or larger diameter that may provide for interstate gas
transmission, or to provide gas to customers or areas located throughout the
City.
      3.   Wind Or Water Energy System: A wind or water energy conversion
system consisting of one or more turbines and/or towers and associated control
and/or conversion electronics and providing generated electrical power to be
used for off-site consumption.
      4.   Petroleum Pipeline: A petroleum or oil transmission pipeline of four
inches (4") or larger in diameter and that provides for interstate petroleum or
oil transmission, or to provide petroleum or oil to customers or areas located
throughout the City.
      5.   Electric Substation: A power regulating facility designed to
regulate power for distribution at voltages of one hundred forty thousand
(140,000) volts (140 kV) or greater.
      6.   Compression/Pumping Station: A gas or petroleum regulating facility
designed to regulate the flow along major utility facilities.
3220 UTILITY FACILITY, DISTRIBUTION: A general term for the following uses.
These uses are not required to be located on a building lot or to comply with
the minimum lot size requirement for the district in which it is located.
      1.   Electric Transmission Line: A power transmission line, either above
or below ground, designed to provide electric transmission at voltages of less
than one hundred forty thousand (140,000) volts (140 kV) but more than thirty
thousand (30,000) volts (30kV).
      2.   Gas Pipeline: A gas transmission pipeline of less than twelve inches
(12") in diameter.
      3.   Water/Waste Water Transmission Line: A transmission line for water
(culinary or irrigation water) or wastewater greater than eighteen inches (18")
in diameter. Open canals and barrow pits are exempt from this requirement.
      4.   Electric Substation: A power regulating facility designed to
regulate power for distribution to customers at voltages less than one hundred
forty thousand (140,000) volts (140 kV).
      5.   Compression/Pumping Station: A gas or petroleum regulating facility
designed to regulate the flow along minor utility facilities.
3230 UTILITY FACILITY, SERVICE: Electric, gas, communication, water, sewer,
irrigation, drainage lines, or other utility facilities that provide local
delivery or collection services from either utility facility distribution or
transmission services. This includes home based geothermal, wind, solar, or
water powered facilities limited to the production capacity required to service
a single family dwelling.
3240 TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY: A facility used for the transmission or
reception of electromagnetic or electro- optic information, which is placed on
a structure. This use is not required to be located on a building lot or to
comply with the minimum lot size requirement for the district in which it is
located.
3300 PUBLIC AIRPORT: A site licensed by the State for the takeoff or landing of
aircraft, including uses that may be appurtenant and accessory to said activity
(e.g., runways, hangars, facilities for refueling and repair). The following
are also required at the time of application:
      1.   A copy of any and/or all FAA reviews, forms, and analyses regarding
the airport location, activity, and design including:
   a. The current FAA Form 7480-1, and;
   b. FAA response to the Form 7480-1 submission.
      2.   A copy of the design guidelines as per the current FAA Airport
Design Advisory Circular AC 150/5300-13A as applicable to the type of aircraft
proposed to operate at the site. Said design guidelines must be implemented at
the site.
      3.   A copy of the State of Utah license as issued by the Utah Division
of Aeronautics.
3310 PRIVATE AIRPORT: Any area for the takeoff or landing of aircraft and that
is not open to the public, including uses that may be appurtenant and accessory
to said activity (e.g., runways, hangars, facilities for refueling and repair).
The following are also required at the time of application, with the exception
of a temporary or intermittent airport as defined by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) on Form 7480-1 Notice for Construction, Alteration, and
Deactivation of Airports:
      1.   A copy of any and/or all FAA reviews, forms, and analyses regarding
the airport location, activity, and design including:
   a. The current FAA Form 7480-1, and;
   b. FAA response to the Form 7480-1 submission.
      2.   A copy of the design guidelines as per the current FAA Airport
Design Advisory Circular AC 150/5300-13A as applicable to the type of aircraft
proposed to operate at the site. Said design guidelines must be implemented at
the site.
3400 SOLID WASTE FACILITY: A facility engaged in solid waste management,
including:
      1.   A landfill;
      2.   A processing system, including:
         a. A resource recovery facility;
         b. A facility for reducing solid waste volume;
         c. A plant or facility for compacting, composting, or pyrolization of
solid waste;
         d. A solid waste disposal, reduction, or conversion facility.
      3.   Composting facility: A facility where organic materials are
converted into a humus like material under a process of managed biological
decomposition or mechanical processes. Normal backyard composting and
composting incidental to farming operations are exempted from this use.
      4.   Sewage treatment works: A facility designed for the collection,
removal, treatment, and disposal of waterborne sewage generated within a given
service area. Includes sewage lagoons and sewage treatment plants. Excludes
septic systems.
3500 NUCLEAR WASTE FACILITY: A facility for the disposal or transfer of high-
level nuclear waste or greater than Class C radioactive nuclear waste, as
defined within State Code section 19-3-303, that is located wholly or partially
within the City.
CULTURAL, ENTERTAINMENT, AND RECREATION:
4100 CULTURAL FACILITY: Services to the public, such as but not limited to
museums, art galleries, and libraries by a public or private, nonprofit
facility.
4200 RECREATIONAL FACILITY: A place, either indoor or outdoor, designed and
equipped for the conduct of sports and/or leisure time activities that are
operated as a business and/or open to the general public. These facilities are
typically operated for a period of greater than thirty (30) days per year. May
also include incidental hotel/motel accommodations for up to fifteen (15)
rooms.
      1.   Campground: Any area with more than three (3) sites that are
improved for occupancy by transients using recreational vehicles, motor homes,
mobile trailers, or tents for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes with a
maximum duration of stay of two (2) weeks.
4300 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Seminude entertainment business, sexually
oriented outcall services, adult business, and seminude dancing agencies.
TRADE, WHOLESALE, AND RETAIL:
5100 RETAIL/COMMERCIAL SALES AND SERVICE: An establishment that provides goods,
wares, or merchandise directly to a consumer, where such goods are available
for immediate purchase and removal from the premises by the purchaser.
RESOURCE PRODUCTION AND EXTRACTION:
6100 AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION: The large scale production, keeping, or
maintenance, for sale, lease, or personal use of plants useful to man,
including crops and products such as vegetables, fruit trees, harvestable and
ornamental trees, hay, sod, grain, honey, milk, cheese, and any other
agricultural or horticultural products and their storage; wholesale fruits of
all kinds, including grapes, nuts, and berries; wholesale vegetables; wholesale
nursery, floral, ornamental, and greenhouse products; or lands devoted to a
Soil Conservation or Forestry Management Program. Also includes but is not
limited to the following specific uses:
      1.   Horticultural Production: The use of land for the growing or
production for income of fruits, vegetables, flowers, nursery stock, including
ornamental plants and trees, and cultured sod.
      2.   Aquiculture: The commercial cultivation of aquatic life, such as
fish, shellfish, and seaweed.
      3.   Agricultural Building: A structure used solely in conjunction with
agriculture use, not for human occupancy, and complying with the requirements
of section 15A-1-202, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended. To qualify as an
agricultural building, the structure must be located outside of a residential
area, as defined by section 15A-1-204(11), Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as
amended.
      4.   Agricultural Products Storage: The storage of raw agricultural
products. This use does not include the commercial slaughtering, the processing
and packaging of meat and poultry, or the processing of food stuffs.
      5.   Livestock Production: An agricultural operation or establishment
which keeps, feeds, or raises livestock for commercial purposes and as a
principal land use. These include piggeries, dairies, dairy and beef cattle
ranching, feedlots, chicken, turkey and other poultry farms, rabbit and mink
farms, apiaries, and aviaries.
      6.   Grazing: The feeding of livestock or horses where more than fifty
percent (50%) of the feed is produced on the immediate parcel and available to
the animals as in-place vegetation to sustain life.
6110 PRODUCE STAND: A temporary building or structure, not to exceed a gross
floor area of two hundred fifty (250) square feet, from which agricultural
products are sold. May also involve the accessory sales of other unprocessed
foodstuffs, home processed food products such as jams, jellies, pickles,
sauces, or baked goods, and home-made handicrafts. No commercially packaged
handicrafts or commercially processed or packaged foodstuffs shall be sold.
6200 AGRICULTURE RELATED SALES AND SERVICE: Establishments selling, renting,
manufacturing, or repairing agricultural machinery, equipment, and supplies for
use in soil preparation and maintenance, the planting and harvesting of crops,
and other operations and processes accessory to local agriculture. Also
includes but is not limited to the following specific uses:
      1.   Veterinary Clinic: A facility for the diagnosis, treatment, and
hospitalization of animals by a licensed veterinarian, and which may include
boarding and outdoor holding facilities.
      2.   Livestock Auction Facility: A structure or structures with
associated pens, yards, corrals, and loading and unloading facilities used for
the sale of livestock.
6300 CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (CAFO): A lot or facility as defined
by the EPA as meeting or exceeding the standards of a large CAFO.
6400 BOARDING FACILITY: A series of stables, barns, paddocks, and/or other
shelters and exercise facilities in which livestock, including cattle, sheep,
goats, swine, horses, mules, poultry, etc., are fed, exercised, and/or
commercially cared for on a short or long term basis.
6410 LIVESTOCK HUSBANDRY: The raising, or nurturing, and management of
domesticated farm animals. See section
10-9-13, "Livestock Husbandry", of this title.
6420 HOUSEHOLD PET: Animals ordinarily kept in a dwelling for personal use and
not for commercial purposes. This also includes no more than two (2) adult
dogs, two (2) chickens, four (4) pigeons, two (2) mature rabbits, one lamb not
over eight (8) months old, and two (2) ducks.
6430 DOG KENNEL: Any establishment, accessory to a dwelling unit and/or
adjacent to a neighboring parcel under the same ownership, at which five (5) or
more adult dogs are boarded, groomed, bred, raised, and/or otherwise kept. This
excludes a single, incidental litter in a twelve (12) month period. A kennel
must comply with the following requirements:
      1.   A kennel shall consist of no more than twelve (12) adult dogs.
      2.   All kennel facilities must be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from the
property boundary and a minimum of twenty feet (20') from a dwelling.
      3.   Noise levels from the kennel shall not exceed ten (10) decibels
(dBA, Leq) above the existing ambient noise levels at the property line at any
time of day or night. A sound level impact and assessment report prepared and
signed by a qualified professional must be provided at the time of application
to support the same.
6500 MINERAL EXTRACTION: The extraction of metallic and nonmetallic minerals or
materials; including the accessory uses of rock crushing, screening, and the
storage of explosives; except where such excavation is for purposes of grading
for a building lot or roadway, where grass sod is removed to be used for
landscaping, or where materials are excavated from a lot for use on that same
lot or an adjoining parcel by the owner of the property. This also includes
stone quarries and sand/gravel pits and all other associated requirements as
identified by title 7, chapter 3 of this Code.
6510 EXCAVATION, TOPSOIL MINING OR EXTRACTION: See section
7-3-2 of this Code.
MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES:
7100 GENERAL MANUFACTURING: The manufacture, processing, and assembling of
products by mechanical or chemical processes. Typically includes but is not
limited to the manufacturing of rock products (including concrete/asphalt
plants); metal products; wood products (including saw mills and pulp
factories); plastic components; and the commercial processing of animal
products (meat, dairy, eggs, etc.).
7110 AGRICULTURAL MANUFACTURING: The processing of agriculturally based
products where seventy five percent (75%) or more of the goods are grown
directly on the property or on adjacent property that is operated by the owner
of the agricultural manufacturing business. Includes any value added
agricultural processing including but not limited to: honey processing, juice
production from orchards or berries, meat or fish processing (smoking, jerky,
cured meats, etc.), processing of vegetables, etc.
7200 STORAGE AND WAREHOUSING: A structure(s) containing storage space(s) of
varying sizes that are affiliated with commercial or industrial uses. Such
facilities are to be used for dead storage only. No business activities may be
conducted from a storage facility other than those that are clearly ancillary
to the primary business. Also includes the following specific uses:
      1.   Storage Yard: The storage of large equipment and vehicles (either
construction or transport); bulk construction materials (soil and rock products
or building materials); and buildings or structures for uses such as offices or
repair facilities.
7210 SELF SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY: A building or group of buildings divided
into separate compartments used to meet the temporary storage needs of small
businesses, apartment dwellers, and other residential uses; and may include
refrigerated or climate controlled facilities.
7300 TRANSPORT SERVICES: An establishment engaged primarily in the loading and
unloading of freight onto tractor trucks or the dispatch of tractor trucks
which will be used to haul freight. May also include services for the fueling,
servicing, repair, or parking of trucks or similar heavy commercial vehicles.
Excludes the parking of a single truck by an owner/operator at their place of
residence and trucks owned and operated by an agricultural entity engaged in
the transport of seventy five percent (75%) or more of that owner's
agricultural products. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018; amd. Ord. 20-02, 5-19-2020; Ord.
20-05, 11-17-2020)
10-7-4: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined as
follows. Words used in the present tense include the future. Words in the
singular number include the plural and the plural the singular. Words not
included herein but defined in the Building Code shall be construed as defined
therein.
AGRICULTURE: The science, art or occupation concerned with cultivating land,
raising crops, and feeding, breeding and raising domestic livestock and fowl;
also farming and the production of crops, livestock or poultry, but excluding
concentrated animal operations.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare twenty six feet (26') or less in width.
APPEAL: A review by the identified appellate body of a final decision of the
approving body.
APPEAL AUTHORITY: The person, board, commission, agency, or other body
designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use
application or variance.
APPLICANT: The owner of title or agent for property that is the subject of an
application.
APPLICATION: The necessary form and all accompanying documents and other
materials required by the Land Use Authority for development review purposes.
APPLICATION TO KEEP LIVESTOCK: A request to keep livestock on a parcel that
conforms to the requirements of this Code, or to maintain livestock as an
authorized pre-existing, nonconforming use.
APPROVAL: A decision signed and issued by the Land Use Authority stating that a
proposed use complies with the current City Code.
BASEMENT: A story partly underground. A basement shall be counted as a story
for purposes of height measurement if its height is one-half (1/2) or more
above grade.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A detached, subordinate building clearly incidental to and
located upon the same lot occupied by the main building.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the
mean height level between ridge and eaves of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
BUILDING, MAIN: The principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a
lot, or the building or one of the principal buildings housing the principal
use upon a lot.
COURT: An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings and which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by
such building or buildings. The width of a court is its least horizontal
dimension, measured between opposite sides in the same general direction as the
yard or lot line on which the court opens. The length of a court is its least
horizontal dimension measured at right angles to its width.
DISTRICT: A portion of the area of Lewiston, Utah, shown on a map attached to
the ordinance codified herein, which is on file in the City office, and given a
district name.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, which is constructed in compliance
with the City's adopted Building Codes and designed as a place for human
habitation. This does not include hotels, apartment hotels, boarding houses,
lodging houses, motels, apartment motels, fraternities, sororities, trailers,
or dormitories.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling, apartment hotel or apartment
motel, designed for or occupied by one family for living or sleeping purposes
and having kitchen facilities for the use of not more than one family (other
than hot plates or other portable cooking units).
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, occupying a
dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from
renters, roomers or as a group occupying a "boarding house" or "hotel", as
herein defined. The term "family" shall not be construed to mean a group of
nonrelated individuals, a fraternity, club or institutional group.
FINDINGS: Statements of the Land Use Authority identifying the reasons and
basis for the action taken; also referred to as findings of fact.
FLOODPLAIN: An area adjoining a river, stream, watercourse, or body of standing
water in which a potential flood hazard exists when the area experiences a 100-
year storm, including any area designated as a floodplain by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) of the United States government. These areas
have additional regulations located within title 12 of this Code.
FOWL: As relates to livestock and livestock husbandry, this includes pigeons,
chickens, ducks, geese, and pheasants.
FRONTAGE: All property fronting on one side of the street between intersecting
or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway, end
of a dead end street or political subdivision boundary, measured along the
street line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the
frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts.
GEOLOGIC HAZARD: A hazard inherent in the crust of the earth or artificially
created, which is dangerous or potentially dangerous to life, property, or
improvements due to the movement, subsidence, or shifting of the earth. The
term includes, but is not limited to, unstable slopes, faults, landslides, and
rock fall.
GRADE: 1. For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation of the
sidewalk at the center of that wall adjoining the street.
      2.   For buildings adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevations of the sidewalks at the centers of all walls adjoining the streets.
      3.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level
of the ground (finished surface) adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building. All walls approximately parallel to and not more than five feet (5')
from a street line are to be considered as adjoining a street.
JUNK: Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles or parts thereof,
iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
LAND USE AUTHORITY: A person, board, commission, department, agency, or other
body designated by the legislative body to act upon the land use application.
LAND USE ORDINANCE: A planning, zoning, development, or subdivision ordinance
of the Municipality, but does not include the General Plan.
LIVESTOCK: Domesticated farm animals (i.e., cows, horses, sheep, goats, fowl,
and rabbits), but does not include cats, dogs, or a household pet as defined in
this Code.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building, or group
of buildings (main and accessory), together with such yards, open spaces, lot
width and lot area as are required by this title and having frontage upon a
street. Not more than one dwelling shall occupy any one lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) intersections or intercepting streets,
where the interior angle or intersection or interception does not exceed one
hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT/PARCEL COVERAGE: The percentage of the area of a lot/parcel which is
occupied by covered structures. At the discretion of the Planning Commission,
the design of the remaining open space shall be reviewed and approved by the
Planning Commission.
NATURAL WATERWAYS: Those areas, varying in width, along streams, creeks,
springs, gulleys or washes which are natural drainage channels as determined by
the building inspector, in which areas no buildings shall be constructed.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure or portion
thereof, lawfully existing at the time the ordinance codified herein, or an
amendment to it, became effective, which does not conform to all the height,
area and yard regulations herein prescribed in the zone in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the time
the ordinance codified herein, or an amendment to it, became effective and
which does not conform with the use regulations of the zone in which it is
located.
PARKING LOT: An open area, other than a street, used for the temporary parking
of more than four (4) automobiles and available for public use, whether free,
for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: Space within a building, lot or parking lot for the parking or
storage of one automobile.
PLANNING COMMISSION: An official body of Lewiston City as authorized by the
laws of the State of Utah, to perform those duties as allowed by State law and
this title.
PROPERTY LINE: The boundary line of a lot, parcel, or tract of land.
PUBLIC HEARING: As defined by section 17-27a-103, of Utah Code Annotated, 1953,
as amended.
PUBLIC MEETING: As defined by section 17-27a-103, of Utah Code Annotated, 1953,
as amended.
RESTRICTED LOT: A parcel of land severed or placed in separate ownership after
August 1, 1995, and which does not meet all area, width, yard, frontage and
other requirements of the ordinance codified herein for a lot, or a parcel of
land which does meet all the requirements of the ordinance codified herein for
a lot, but the creation of which has caused any adjacent or contiguous lot from
which it was severed to be insufficient in area, width, setback, yard, frontage
or other requirements of this title.
ROOMER: One who occupies a hired room in another's house.
SETBACK: The minimum required distance between any structure and the property
lines of the lot in which it is located. The front, rear, and side setbacks are
defined as follows:
      1.   Front: The area of a lot or parcel of land extending across the
frontage and being the minimum horizontal distance between a street or road
right-of-way/easement line and the principal building or any projection thereof
other than steps, unenclosed balconies and unenclosed porches. The front
setback of a corner lot is the area adjacent to the designated front lot line.
      2.   Rear: The area of a lot or parcel of land extending across the rear
width and being the minimum horizontal distance between the primary building,
or any projection thereof other than steps, unenclosed balconies and unenclosed
porches, and the rear lot line.
      3.   Side: An area of a lot or parcel of land extending between the side
lot line and the principal building or any projection thereof other than steps,
unenclosed balconies and unenclosed porches.
      4.   Other: Any distance required between a structure or site improvement
and a set feature (i.e., floodplain, geologic hazard, accessory building,
etc.).
SIGN: Any device used for visual communication to the general public and
displayed out of doors, including signs painted on exterior walls, and interior
illuminated signs to be viewed from out of doors, but not including any flag,
badge or ensign of any governmental agency.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: A sign which directs attention to a use, product, commodity
or service not related to the premises.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a use conducted, product or
commodity sold, or service performed upon the premises.
SIGN, IDENTIFICATION: A sign displayed to indicate the name or nature of
buildings or uses other than commercial or industrial uses located upon the
premises.
SIGN, NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and/or occupation of a person or
persons residing on the premises or legally occupying the premises, or
indicating a home occupation legally existing on the premises.
SIGN, PROPERTY: A sign related to the property on which it is located and
offering such property for sale or lease, or advertising contemplated
improvements, or announcing the name of the builder, owner, designer or
developer of the project, or warning against trespassing.
SIGN, PUBLIC INFORMATION: A sign erected by a public or nonprofit agency,
service club, etc., giving information to direct the public to both public and
private facilities and major uses.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: Temporary signs shall include any sign, banner, pennant or
advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard,
wallboard or other light materials, with or without frames, intended to be
displayed for a short period of time only.
STORY: The space within a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the ceiling next above.
STORY, HALF: A story with at least two (2) of its opposite sides situated in a
sloping roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the
floor immediately below it.
STREET: A public thoroughfare which affords principal means of access to
abutting property, and is more than twenty six feet (26') wide.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in supporting members of a building, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having a location on the ground.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use customarily incidental to and located upon
the same lot occupied by a main use.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A land use that, because of its unique characteristics or
potential impact on the City, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may
not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions
are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts. Also see
chapter 13, "Conditional Uses", of this title.
UTILITIES: All lines and facilities related to the provision, distribution,
collection, transmission, or disposal of water, storm and sanitary sewage, oil,
gas, power, telecommunication and telephone cables and the generation of power
as further defined herein.
VARIANCE: As defined by section 17-27a-702, of Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as
amended.
WIDTH OF LOT: The distance between the side lot lines at the distance back from
the front lot line required for the depth of the front yard.
YARD: A space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from
the ground upward by buildings, except as otherwise provided herein.
YARD, FRONT: The required space on the same lot with a building, existing or
proposed,
      1.   Between the front line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the
front lot line, or;
      2.   Forty feet (40') from the center of the immediately adjacent road/
street plus thirty feet (30');
      3.   Whichever of the two (2) measured distances creates the greatest
distance between the immediately adjacent road/street right-of-way or property
line and the front line of the building (exclusive of steps), and extending
across the full width of the lot.
YARD, REAR: A space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line of
the building (exclusive of steps and chimneys) and the rear line of the lot and
extending the full width of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: A space on the same lot with a building, between the side lines of
the building (exclusive of steps or open stairways) and the side line of the
lot and extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line.
ZONE: A portion of the area of Lewiston, Utah, shown on the zoning map attached
to the ordinance codified herein, which is on file in the City office, and
given a zone name; and may include one or more "districts", as defined and
designated by this title. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018; amd. Ord. 20-02, 5-19-2020)
CHAPTER 8
SCHEDULE OF USES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Schedule Of Uses By Zoning District
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to define the types of uses permitted by right,
requiring a land use application, and prohibited within all zoning districts.
(Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-8-2: SCHEDULE OF USES BY ZONING DISTRICT:
Table
10-8-2 of this section lists the primary uses within all Lewiston City zoning
districts. All of the use categories listed in the table are defined in chapter
7, "Land Use Definitions", of this title.
   A.   Uses Permitted By Right:
      1.   A "P" indicates that a use type is allowed without Land Use
Authority review/permitting in the respective zoning district.
   B.   Land Use Applications:
      1.   A "ZC" indicates that a use type is allowed as a zoning clearance,
and that the Land Use Authority must approve, impose reasonable conditions,
and/or may deny said use in accordance with this Code and State Code.
      2.   A "C" indicates that a use type is allowed as a conditional use
permit and that the Land Use Authority must approve, impose reasonable
conditions, and/or may deny said use in accordance with this Code and State
Code.
   C.   Uses Prohibited:
      1.   An "N" indicates that a use type is prohibited in the respective
zoning district.
      2.   Any uses not specifically permitted or conditionally permitted are
prohibited.
   D.   Additional Compliance: All uses must comply with all applicable local,
State, and Federal requirements and licensing and must provide evidence or
documentation of compliance to the appropriate Land Use Authority.
   TABLE
10-8-2
                  Zoning Districts
Index Description Agriculture Single Family     Commercial Manufacturing
                              Residential (R-1)
                  A           R-1-10 R-1-12     C          M-1
                        Zoning Districts
Index Description       Agriculture Single Family     Commercial Manufacturing
                                    Residential (R-1)
                        A           R-1-10 R-1-12     C          M-1
1000  Residential
1100  Dwelling, single  ZC          ZC     ZC         N          N
      family
1110  Accessory         C           C      C          N          N
      apartment
1120  Temporary         C           C      C          C          C
      dwelling
1200  Home based        ZC          ZC     ZC         N          N
      business
1300  Dwelling,         N           C1     C          N          N
      multiple family
1400  Residential       C           C      C          N          N
      living facility
      Mobile home,
1500  camper, or        C           N      N          N          N
      trailer
      Services,
2000  professional and
      personal
2100  Professional      N           N      N          ZC         C
      services
2200  Human care        N           N      N          ZC         C
      services
2300  General vehicle   C           N      N          C          C
      repair
2400  Restaurant        N           N      N          C          C
2410  Mobile food truck N           N      N          C          C
2500  Transient lodging N           N      N          C          C
2510  Bed and breakfast C           C      C          N          N
      inn
      Institutional,
3000  public, and
      utility uses
3110  Cemetery          C           N      N          N          N
3120  Public park       C           C      C          C          C
3130  Public uses       P           P      P          P          P
3140  Religious meeting C           C      C          C          C
      house
3150  Educational       C           C      C          C          C
      facility
3160  Correctional      N           N      N          N          N
      facility
3210  Utility facility, N           N      N          N          N
      transmission
3220  Utility facility, C           C      C          C          C
      distribution
3230  Utility facility, P           P      P          P          P
      service
3240  Telecommunication C           C      C          C          C
      facility
3300  Public airport    C           N      N          N          N
3310  Private airport   C           N      N          N          N
3400  Solid waste       C           N      N          N          C
      facilities
3500  Nuclear waste     N           N      N          N          N
      facility
      Cultural,
4000  entertainment,
      and recreation
4100  Cultural facility C           C      C          C          C
4200  Recreational      C           C      C          C          C
      facility
4300  Sexually oriented N           N      N          N          C
      business
5000  Trade, wholesale
      and retail
5100  Retail and        C           N      N          C          C
      commercial sales
      Resource
6000  production and
      extraction
6100  Agricultural      C           N      N          C          C
      production
6110  Produce stand     ZC          ZC     ZC         ZC         ZC
      Agriculture
6200  related sales and C           N      N          C          C
      services
      Concentrated
6300  animal feeding    C           N      N          N          N
      operation (CAFO)
6310  Livestock auction C           N      N          N          N
      facility
6400  Boarding facility C           N      N          N          N
6410  Livestock         P           C      C          C          C
      husbandry
6420  Household pet     P           ZC     ZC         N          N
6430  Dog kennel        C           N      N          N          N
6500  Mineral           C           N      N          N          N
      extraction
      Excavation,
6510  topsoil mining,   C           N      N          N          N
      and/or extraction
7000  Manufacturing
      industries
7100  General           N           N      N          N          C
      manufacturing
7110  Agricultural      C           N      N          N          C
      manufacturing
7200  Storage and       C           N      N          N          C
      warehousing
7210  Self-service      N           N      N          N          C
      storage facility
7300  Transport         N           N      N          N          C
      services
 
Note:
    1.    R-1-10 District - multiple family dwellings with more than 2 units
are not permitted.
(Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018; amd. Ord. 20-02, 5-19-2020)
CHAPTER 9
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Effect Of Chapter
10-9-2: Lots In Separate Ownership
10-9-3: Yard Space For One Building Only
10-9-4: Every Dwelling To Be On A Lot
10-9-5: Separately Owned Lots; Reduced Yards
10-9-6: Private Garage With Side Yard; Reduced Yards
10-9-7: Yards To Be Unobstructed; Exceptions
10-9-8: Wall, Fence, Or Hedge
10-9-9: Exceptions To Height Limitations
10-9-10: Minimum Height Of Main Buildings
10-9-11: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
10-9-12: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space; Restricted Lots
10-9-13: Livestock Husbandry
10-9-14: Site Development Standards
10-9-15: One Acre Minimum Lot Size In The Agricultural Zone
10-9-1: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. (Ord.
18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-2: LOTS IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP:
Any single lot or parcel of land, which was under a separate ownership from
adjacent lots and of record on August 1, 1995, but does not meet the
requirements of the district in which it is located for minimum lot width and
area, may be utilized for a single family dwelling, accessory buildings and
uses, a private garage and agriculture related buildings if all other
requirements of this title are met. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-3: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this title, shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on an
adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon
a building is to be erected or established. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-4: EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT:
Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a "lot", as defined in
section
10-7-4 of this title. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-5: SEPARATELY OWNED LOTS; REDUCED YARDS:
In any lot under a separate ownership from adjacent lots and of record on
August 1, 1995, and such lot having a smaller width than required for the zone
in which it is located, the width of each of the side yards for a dwelling may
be reduced to a width which is not less than the same percentage of the width
of the lot as the required side yard would be of the required lot width;
provided, that on interior lots, the smaller of the two (2) yards shall be in
no case less than five feet (5'), or the larger less than eight feet (8'), and
for corner lots the side yard on the side street shall be in no case less than
fifteen feet (15') or the other side yard be less than five feet (5'). (Ord.
18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-6: PRIVATE GARAGE WITH SIDE YARD; REDUCED YARDS:
On any interior lot where a private garage, containing a sufficient number of
parking spaces to meet the requirements of this title, has a side yard equal to
the minimum side yard required for a dwelling in the same zone, the width of
the other side yard for the dwelling may be reduced to equal that of the
minimum required side yard, and on any lot where such garage has such side
yard, the rear yard of the dwelling may be reduced fifteen feet (15'), provided
the garage also has a rear yard of at least fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 18-01, 1-
16-2018)
10-9-7: YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky unobstructed except for
accessory buildings in a rear yard, the ordinary projections of skylights,
sills, belt courses, cornices, roof overhang, chimneys, flues and other
ornamental features which project into a yard not more than four feet (4') and
open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies upon fire towers projecting into a yard, not more than five feet
(5'). (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-8: WALL, FENCE, OR HEDGE:
   A.   Height: No fence or wall or other similar structure shall be erected in
any required front, rear or side yard to a height in excess of six feet (6'),
except for accessory buildings and structures permitted herein, and as allowed
by a conditional use permit. Where there is a difference in the grade of the
properties on either side of a fence or wall, the height of the fence or wall
shall be measured from the average elevation of finished grades of the
adjoining properties in question at the fence line, except that no fence need
be less than forty two inches (42") in height.
   B.   Retaining Walls: Where a retaining wall protects a cut below the
natural grade and is located on the line separating lots, such retaining wall
may be topped by a fence, wall or hedge of the same height that would otherwise
be permitted at the location if no retaining wall existed. Where a retaining
wall contains a fill, the height of the retaining wall built to retain the fill
shall be considered as contributing to the permissible height of a fence, solid
wall or hedge; providing, that in any event a protective fence or wall not more
than forty two inches (42") in height may be erected at the top of the
retaining wall. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-9: EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks,
ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building, and parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys,
smoke stacks, water tanks, wireless or television masts, theater lofts, silos,
or similar structures may be erected above the height limits herein prescribed,
but no space above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of
providing additional floor space. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-10: MINIMUM HEIGHT OF MAIN BUILDINGS:
No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than one story above grade. (Ord.
18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-11: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in excess of
two feet (2') in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular
area formed by the street property lines and a line connecting them at points
one hundred feet (100') from the intersection of the street lines, except a
reasonable number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed vision to
automobile drivers, and pumps at gasoline service stations. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-
2018)
10-9-12: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE; RESTRICTED LOTS:
A restricted lot which meets all the requirements of this title for a lot, but
the creation of which has caused any adjacent lot from which it was severed to
be insufficient in area, width, yard, frontage or other requirements, may be
considered otherwise by adding or designating sufficient acreage to the
adjacent lot to meet all the requirements of this title for a lot in the zone
in which it is located. The added or designated land must then be duly recorded
in the Office of the County Recorder before a building permit may be issued.
Building permits will not be issued on restricted lots. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-13: LIVESTOCK HUSBANDRY:
   A.   Permitted Livestock: Table
10-9-13 of this subsection identifies the maximum number of livestock permitted
in the Single Family Residential (R-1) Zone. Livestock is not permitted in the
Commercial (C) or Manufacturing (M-1) Zones. Restrictions identified in this
section do not apply to livestock in the Agriculture (A) Zone.
      TABLE
10-9-13
      MAXIMUM NUMBER OF LIVESTOCK PERMITTED
 
Lot Size         R-1 Zone
0 - 0.49 acre    6 fowl or rabbits or combination thereof
0.50 - 0.99 acre 8 fowl or rabbits or combination thereof, and; 2 large
                 livestock1
1+ acre          10 fowl or rabbits or combination thereof, and; 2 large
                 livestock1
 
   Note:
   1.    Any combination of horses, cows, sheep, or goats.
   B.   Prohibited: The keeping of the following is prohibited in the R-1 Zone:
swine, peacocks, stallions, bulls over six (6) months old, roosters, rodents,
snakes, or other animals considered vicious or dangerous as restricted by the
City's animal control ordinance found in title 5, chapter 1 of this Code.
   C.   Open Space: For large livestock (i.e., horses, cows, sheep, or goats) a
minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of the lot acreage must be provided as
accessible open space for said livestock.
   D.   Offspring: Offspring of allowed livestock shall not be considered for
purposes of compliance until they are weaned from the mother.
   E.   Application And Approval Required:
      1.   In the Single Family Residential (R-1) Zone, an "Application to Keep
Livestock" is required for any requests to keep livestock on a parcel that
conforms to the requirements of this Code, or to maintain livestock as an
authorized pre-existing, nonconforming use.
      2.   An Application to Keep Livestock must be reviewed by the City of
Lewiston Zoning Administrator and if approved, authorizes the applicant to keep
livestock until January 31 of the following calendar year. At their discretion,
the Administrator may refer any Application to Keep Livestock to the Planning
Commission or City Council.
      3.   Each approved application must be renewed on an annual basis, and
must be signed by the property owner and tenant as applicable, and filed with
the City Zoning Administrator on or before December 31 of each year.
      4.   The required fee, as set by the City Council, must be paid at the
time of application and on an annual basis for each renewal.
      5.   The property owner and tenant, as applicable, must demonstrate
ownership of, or leasehold interest in, the property to be used for the keeping
of livestock.
      6.   Lots authorized by the City as pre-existing, non-conforming uses are
subject to the regulations herein defined if an approved Application to Keep
Livestock is not obtained and continuously maintained for any such lot.
   F.   Provision And Inspection Of Livestock Facilities:
      1.   The property owner and tenant, as applicable, must provide adequate
fencing so as to fence in any livestock, must provide adequate facilities for
the keeping of the livestock involved, e.g., a shed, corral, barn, and must
adequately maintain all facilities in a clean, acceptable condition.
      2.   Any feed stored on a lot approved for livestock must be located
behind or to the rear of the residence located on said lot.
      3.   All approved requests are subject to periodic review by City
officials and shall be reviewed in the event of complaints by neighbors, other
City residents, or injured parties.
   G.   Failure To Comply:
      1.   In the event the use fails to comply with this Code or with the
conditions specified in the conditional use permit, or a combination thereof,
the offending lot owner and tenant, as applicable, shall have fifteen (15) days
from the date of a written notice from the City to remedy the violation.
      2.   Failure to remedy the violation as specified by this section and by
the City issued written notice shall result in a three (3) year suspension from
issuance of an Application to Keep Livestock to the non-compliant property
owner and tenant, as applicable, starting from the date of the written notice.
      3.   The annual renewal for approved requests shall not be issued if the
requirements of this section, including but not limited to the proper care and
maintenance of the livestock and livestock facilities, have not been met.
      4.   The owner(s) of any lot reduced in size, by sale, lease or
otherwise, to less than the lot size required by this section, and the lot size
designated in an approved conditional use permit, or Application to Keep
Livestock, must notify the City and then must reapply to amend the conditional
use permit and Application to Keep Livestock with the City, within thirty (30)
days after such a reduction in lot size, and shall reduce the number of animals
kept on the reduced size lot to the number allowed by this Code, based on the
new application request.
      5.   If after thirty (30) days the property owner fails to notify and
reapply as noted, the conditional use permit and Application to Keep Livestock
shall be void and all animals shall be removed immediately from the applicable
property.
      6.   The owner(s) of any lot increased in size, by sale, lease or
otherwise, to more than the lot size required by this section and the lot size
designated in an approved application, must amend the existing conditional use
permit and Application to Keep Livestock with the City. At that time, the owner
may increase the number of animals kept on the increased size lot to the number
allowed by this section.
      7.   The keeping of livestock is subject to the express condition that
the use does not constitute a violation of the nuisance and health laws of the
City or State of Utah. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-14: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following table
10-9-14 identifies the site development standards that apply to all zoning
districts. These are minimum standards and not entitlements. Other regulations
of the land use ordinance, the subdivision ordinance, other applicable City
ordinances and policies, requirements imposed as conditions of permitting, or
requirements from other local, State, and Federal agencies may impose
additional development standards.
   TABLE
10-9-14
 
Prim. = Primary structure Acc. = Accessory structure
 
 Zoning Districts
 A          R-1-10     R-1-12     C          M-1
 Prim. Acc. Prim. Acc. Prim. Acc. Prim. Acc. Prim. Acc.
           Zoning Districts
           A               R-1-10         R-1-12         C          M-1
           Prim. Acc.      Prim. Acc.     Prim. Acc.     Prim. Acc. Prim. Acc.
Minimum setback distances:
Front
yard/
multi-     30' 1           30'            30'            30'
street
frontage                                                            See note 6
Rear yard  30'   10' 2     30'   10' 2    30'   10'2     0' 4
Side yard  12'   20' 2     10'   10' 2    10'   10' 2    0' 5
Between    10' 2,3
structures
Other standards:
Minimum
lot        250' 7          80' 8          110' 8         20'
frontage
Maximum    45'             35'            35'            35'        See note 6
height
Minimum    10 acre9        10,000 sq. ft. 12,000 sq. ft. None
lot size
Maximum    1 unit/10 acres 1 unit/10,000  1 unit/12,000  n/a        n/a
density                    sq. ft.        sq. ft.
Maximum
lot        60%                                           80%
coverage10
 
Notes:
   1.    If a dedicated right-of-way is not present, the front setback(s) shall
be measured as 70 feet from the centerline of the existing adjacent road(s).
   2.    A minimum 5-foot wide side and/or rear yard setback is permitted if
the proposed accessory structure is a minimum of 10 feet behind the primary
structure. A minimum 10-foot wide rear yard setback is required on corner lots
that back to the side yard of another lot.
   3.    A minimum of 40 feet is required between proposed structures for
housing livestock and existing adjacent property dwellings.
   4.    10 feet if it abuts the R-1 Zone.
   5.    10 feet if it abuts the R-1 Zone, and 20 feet when adjacent to a
street.
   6.    For any parcel in the M-1 Zone that abuts or is across the street or
alley from an adjoining zone, the site development standards of the adjoining
zone shall apply to the M-1 parcel.
   7.    The allowable frontage for a buildable lot may be reduced to no less
than 180 feet in accordance with the provisions of Lewiston City Code §
10-9-15.
   8.    120 feet for multiple family dwellings.
   9.    A minimum lot size of one acre is allowed in accordance with the
provisions of Lewiston City Code §
10-9-15. A minimum lot size of 3/4 acre is allowed if part parcel is part of a
cluster subdivision as defined by title 11, “Subdivision Regulations”, of this
Code.
   10.    Existing developments may expand only to the extent of the coverage
limits. If existing developments currently exceed the coverage limits,
expansion shall not occur.
(Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-9-15: ONE ACRE MINIMUM LOT SIZE IN THE AGRICULTURAL ZONE:
   A.   The planning commission may allow a one acre minimum lot size in the
Agricultural Zone as part of an approved conditional use permit for a single-
family dwelling, temporary dwelling, or mobile home, trailer, or camper if the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The allowed dwelling, mobile home, trailer, or camper shall be
maintained on a separately described lot with a minimum area of one acre
(43,560 square feet), which shall be, or originally have been, part of a larger
parcel of real property of not less than ten (10) acres.
      2.   All other requirements of this title and this article, as well as
the state and county boards of health, are complied with.
      3.   Each separately described lot shall have frontage on an existing
class C public road with access to an adequate water line, with the adequacy of
any water line to be determined by the planning commission, with the approval
of the public works director.
   B.   For purposes of the separately described lot referred to in and allowed
by this conditional use, the Planning Commission may allow a minimum lot
frontage of not less than one hundred eighty feet (180'), in order that a more
proportional lot may be created under the terms and provisions of this
conditional use. In approving a lot frontage of less than two hundred fifty
feet (250'), but not less than one hundred eighty feet (180'), for a lot
created by reason of the conditional use to which this paragraph relates, the
planning commission shall require that any adjacent lot, or real property
adjacent to a lot which is created with less than a minimum of two hundred
fifty feet (250') of frontage, not be allowed to be located or developed such
that there is less than two hundred fifty feet (250') of frontage within which
each home and/or any outbuildings are located and constructed. In the event the
planning commission allows for a lot, pursuant to this conditional use, to have
less than the otherwise required two hundred fifty feet (250') of frontage,
then the owner of the remaining property that would otherwise constitute the
additional seventy feet (70') or less necessary for the total of two hundred
fifty feet (250') of frontage required, must agree that no other homes or
outbuildings will be allowed nor built within the frontage, that would
otherwise have been a part of the two hundred fifty foot (250') minimum
required frontage. The agricultural land parcel declaration of covenants,
conditions and restrictions required as part of the granting of this
conditional use shall be drafted to include the legal description for the
entire ten (10) acres, together with the separately described one acre lot
herein allowed, and to provide that no other separately described one acre
parcel or any portion thereof shall be allowed or located within the designated
two hundred fifty feet (250') of frontage that would otherwise have been
required for each lot. The difference between the otherwise required two
hundred fifty feet (250') of frontage and the allowed frontage of one hundred
eighty feet (180') to two hundred fifty feet (250') shall be subject to the
herein required agricultural land parcel declaration.
   C.   The entire original parcel of not less than ten (10) acres, which
includes the separately described parcel referred to above, shall be subject to
an agricultural land parcel declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions, which shall be executed by the owner(s) of said parcel(s) and
recorded, together with a copy of the conditional use permit, with the Cache
County recorder. The forms for both documents shall be provided by the city.
   D.   No more than one single-family dwelling per ten (10) acres shall be
allowed. (Ord. 20-05, 11-17-2020)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Maintenance Permitted
10-10-2: Repairs And Alterations
10-10-3: Additions, Enlargements, And Moving
10-10-4: Alteration Where Parking Is Insufficient
10-10-5: Restoration Of Damaged Buildings
10-10-6: One Year Vacancy
10-10-7: Continuation Of Use
10-10-8: Occupation Within One Year
10-10-9: Change Of Use
10-10-10: Nonconforming Use Of Land
10-10-1: MAINTENANCE PERMITTED:
A nonconforming building or structure may be maintained. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-
2018)
10-10-2: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or
to a building housing a nonconforming use. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-10-3: ADDITIONS, ENLARGEMENTS, AND MOVING:
   A.   A building or structure nonconforming as to use regulations shall not
be added to or enlarged in any manner, unless such building or structure,
including such additions and enlargements, is made to conform to all the
regulations of the zone in which it is located, except as permitted by the
Planning Commission; provided, that the Planning Commission may allow the
addition to or enlargement of a single family dwelling, but only if such
addition or enlargement can be accomplished without further or increased
nonconformance with applicable height, area or yard regulations. The permitted
addition or enlargement may be allowed to be nonconforming to the same extent
as the original single family dwelling.
   B.   A building or structure nonconforming as to height, area or yard
regulations shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such
addition or enlargement conforms to all the regulations of the zone in which it
is located, except as permitted by the Planning Commission; provided, that the
Planning Commission may allow the addition to or enlargement of a single family
dwelling, but only if such addition or enlargement can be accomplished without
further or increased nonconformance with applicable height, area or yard
regulations. The permitted addition or enlargement may be allowed to be
nonconforming to the same extent as the original single-family dwelling. (Ord.
18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-10-4: ALTERATION WHERE PARKING IS INSUFFICIENT:
A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space in
connection therewith as required by this title may be altered or enlarged,
provided additional automobile parking space is supplied to meet the
requirements of this title for such alteration or enlargement. (Ord. 18-01, 1-
16-2018)
10-10-5: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS:
A nonconforming building or structure or a building or structure occupied by a
nonconforming use which is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, wind,
earthquake or other calamity or act of God or the public enemy, may be restored
and the occupancy or use of such building, structure or part thereof, which
existed at the time of such damage or destruction, may be continued or resumed;
provided, that such restoration is started within a period of one year and
diligently pursued to completion. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-10-6: ONE YEAR VACANCY:
A building or structure or portion thereof occupied by a nonconforming use,
which is, or hereafter becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied for a continuous
period of one year, except for dwellings, shall not thereafter be occupied
except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the zone in which it
is located. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-10-7: CONTINUATION OF USE:
The occupancy of a building or structure by a nonconforming use existing at the
time the City's original zoning ordinance, or an amendment or revision thereto,
was first adopted which made a use nonconforming, may be continued. (Ord. 18-
01, 1-16-2018)
10-10-8: OCCUPATION WITHIN ONE YEAR:
A vacant building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the building
or structure was designed or intended if so occupied within a period of one
year after the use became nonconforming. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-10-9: CHANGE OF USE:
The nonconforming use of a building or structure may not be changed except to a
conforming use; but where such change is made, the use shall not thereafter be
changed back to a nonconforming use. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-10-10: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land, existing at the time the ordinance codified
herein became effective, may be continued; provided, that no such nonconforming
use of land shall in any way be expanded or extended either on the same or
adjoining property; and provided, that if such nonconforming use of land, or
any portion thereof, is abandoned or changed for a period of one year or more,
any future use of such land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
title. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 11
PARKING AND LOADING SPACE
SECTION:
10-11-1: Off Street Parking Required
10-11-2: Parking Space For Dwellings
10-11-3: Parking Space For Buildings Or Uses Other Than Dwellings
10-11-4: Location Of Parking Space
10-11-5: Parking Lot Regulations
10-11-6: Off Street Truck Loading Space
10-11-1: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIRED:
There shall be provided at the time of erection of any building or at the time
any main building is enlarged or increased in capacity, minimum off street
parking space with adequate provisions of ingress and egress by standard sized
automobiles as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-11-2: PARKING SPACE FOR DWELLINGS:
In all zones there shall be provided in a private garage, or in an area
properly located for a future garage, a hard surfaced space for the parking of
one automobile for the first six hundred (600) square feet or fraction thereof
of gross floor area in a new dwelling, plus one extra parking space for each
additional eight hundred (800) square feet or fraction thereof, plus one
additional parking space for each six hundred (600) square feet of such space
added in the case of the enlargement of an existing building. In no case shall
there be less than one such parking space nor more than three (3) such parking
spaces required for each dwelling unit. There shall be no change of use without
the attendant space to accommodate the increased off street parking needs. A
minimum parking space shall be at least nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20').
(Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-11-3: PARKING SPACE FOR BUILDINGS OR USES OTHER THAN DWELLINGS:
   A.   For a new building, or for any enlargement or increase in seating
capacity, floor area or guest rooms of any existing main building, there shall
be at least one permanently maintained parking space of not less than one
hundred eighty (180) square feet net area (9' x 20') as follows:
      1.   For church, school, college and university auditoriums and theaters,
general auditoriums, stadiums and other similar places of assembly, at least
one parking space for every five (5) fixed seats provided in said buildings or
structures.
      2.   For hospitals, at least one parking space for each two (2) beds,
including infants' cribs and children's beds. For medical and dental clinics,
at least fifteen (15) parking spaces; provided, that three (3) additional
parking spaces shall be provided for each doctor or dentist having offices in
such clinic in excess of three (3) doctors or dentists.
      3.   For tourists courts and apartment motels, at least one parking space
for each individual sleeping or living unit; for hotels and apartment hotels,
at least one parking space for each two (2) sleeping rooms up to and including
the first twenty (20) sleeping rooms, and one parking space for each three (3)
sleeping rooms over twenty (20) sleeping rooms.
      4.   For boarding houses, lodging houses, dormitories, fraternities or
sororities, at least one parking space for every one and one- half (11/2)
persons for whose accommodation the building is designed or used.
      5.   For restaurants or establishments that serve meals, lunches or
drinks to patrons either in their cars or in the building, for retail stores
selling directly to the public, and recreational places of assembly, at least
one space for each one hundred (100) square feet of floor space in the
building, and one space for each two (2) employees working on the highest
employment shift, or five (5) parking spaces, whichever requirement is the
greater.
      6.   For mortuaries, at least thirty (30) parking spaces; for liquor
stores, at least twenty (20) parking spaces.
      7.   For all business or industrial uses not listed above, not providing
customer services on the premises, one parking space for each two (2) employees
working on the highest employment shift.
   B.   In no case shall a building be constructed, altered or increased where,
if the foregoing parking provisions are inadequate to provide sufficient spaces
for all employees and customers combined, the provision of adequate parking
spaces shall supersede any and all foregoing formulas. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-11-4: LOCATION OF PARKING SPACE:
Parking space as required above shall be on the same lot with the main building
or, in the case of buildings other than dwellings, may be located not farther
than five hundred feet (500') therefrom. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-11-5: PARKING LOT REGULATIONS:
Every parcel of land hereafter used as a parking lot shall be paved with a
surfacing material of oil, asphalt or concrete composition and shall have
appropriate bumper guards where needed as determined by the building inspector.
Any lights used to illuminate the lot shall be so arranged as to reflect the
light away from adjoining premises in any residential zone. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-
2018)
10-11-6: OFF STREET TRUCK LOADING SPACE:
On the same premises with every building, structure or part thereof, erected
and occupied or increased in capacity after the effective date hereof, for
manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods display, department store, grocery,
hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or other use similarly
involving the receipt or distribution by vehicle of materials or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained on the lot adequate space for standing,
loading and unloading services in order to avoid undue interference with public
use of streets, or alleys. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 12
MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Businesses Requiring Access
10-12-2: Roadways And Curbs
10-12-3: Location Of Gasoline Pumps
10-12-1: BUSINESSES REQUIRING ACCESS:
Service stations, roadside stands, public parking lots, and all other
businesses requiring motor vehicles access shall meet the requirements as
hereinafter provided or as prescribed in the Utah Department of Transportation
manual entitled "Manual for the Accommodation of Utilities and the Control and
Protection of State Highway Rights of Way" (whichever requirements are
greater). Access to State highways is controlled and regulated by Utah
Department of Transportation (UDOT) regulations. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-12-2: ROADWAYS AND CURBS:
Access to the station or other structure or parking lot shall be controlled as
follows:
   A.   Access shall be by not more than three (3) roadways for each one
hundred feet (100') or fraction thereof of frontage on any street, and in no
event shall such roadways exceed in width seventy percent (70%) of the entire
street frontage.
   B.   No two (2) of said roadways shall be closer to each other than twelve
feet (12'), and no roadway shall be closer to a side property line than one and
one-half feet (11/2').
   C.   Each roadway shall not be more than thirty six feet (36') in width,
measured at right angles to the center line of the driveway, except as
increased by permissible curb return radii. The entire flare of any return
radius shall fall within the right-of-way.
   D.   No roadway shall be closer than ten feet (10') to the point of
intersection of two (2) property lines at any corner as measured along the
property line, and no roadway shall extend across such extended property line.
   E.   In all cases where there is an existing curb and gutter or sidewalk on
the street, the applicant for a permit shall provide a safety island along the
entire frontage of the property, except for the permitted roadways. On the two
(2) ends and street side of each such island shall be constructed a concrete
curb, the height, location and structural specifications of which shall be
approved by the City Engineer. Maximum and minimum curb return radii permitted
and minimum roadway approach angles to the center line of the street are
required as shown in the manual and made by this reference as much a part of
this title as if fully described and detailed herein.
   F.   Where there is no existing curb and gutter or sidewalk, the applicant
may at his option install such safety island and curb or, in place thereof,
shall construct along the entire length of the property line, except in front
of the permitted roadways, a curb, fence or pipe rail not exceeding two feet
(2') or less than eight inches (8") in height. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-12-3: LOCATION OF GASOLINE PUMPS:
Gasoline pumps shall be set back not less than eighteen feet (18') from any
street line to which the pump island is vertical and twelve feet (12') from any
street line to which the pump island is parallel, and not less than ten feet
(10') from any residential or zone boundary line. If the pump island is set at
an angle on the property, it shall be so located that automobiles stopped for
service will not extend over the property line. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 13
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Conditional Use Permit; Procedure
10-13-3: Special Provisions
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of uses to ensure
their compatible integration in the land use pattern of the City. (Ord. 18-01,
1-16-2018)
10-13-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Required: An approved conditional use permit shall be required for each
conditional use listed in this title. No building permit or other permit or
license shall be issued for a conditional use by any officer or employee of the
City unless a conditional use permit shall have been approved.
   B.   Application: Application for a conditional use permit shall be made at
the Office of the Planning Commission on forms provided for that purpose.
   C.   Development Plan: The applicant for a conditional use permit shall
prepare a site plan of the proposed conditional use, drawn to scale and showing
all existing and proposed buildings, fences, landscaping, automobile parking
and loading areas, and any other information the Planning Commission may deem
necessary.
   D.   Fee: The initial and renewal conditional use permit shall each be in
such amount as established by resolution of the City Council, plus any
publication costs and other expenses incurred.
   E.   Hearing: A hearing need not be held; however, a hearing may be held
when the Planning Commission shall deem a hearing to be necessary to serve the
public interest.
   F.   Planning Commission Action: The Planning Commission may approve, modify
and approve, or deny the conditional use application. In approving any
conditional use, the Planning Commission shall impose regulations and
conditions as are necessary to protect the public welfare. In approving a
conditional use, the Planning Commission shall find that:
      1.   The proposed use is necessary or desirable and will contribute to
the general well being of the community.
      2.   The use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general
welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to
property or improvements in the vicinity.
      3.   The proposed use will comply with the regulations of this title.
      4.   The proposed use is in harmony with the intent of the Master Plan.
   G.   Appeals: Appeal of any decision of the Planning Commission shall be to
the Appeal Authority under the requirements as stipulated under subsection 10-
5-3H of this title.
   H.   Inspection: The building inspector shall inspect the conditional use
during the course of construction to ensure that it complies with the
conditions of the use permit.
   I.   Time Limit: A conditional use permit shall be null and void one year
after approval unless substantial work shall have been accomplished toward its
completion.
   J.   Revocation:
      1.   A conditional use permit may be revoked upon failure to comply with
the conditions imposed at the time of the original approval or subsequent
modification of the permit. In addition, the renewal of any conditional use
permit may be denied at the annual or other periodic renewal time, or at any
other time regardless of the issue date of the permit, upon failure to comply
with the conditions imposed at the time of the original approval or subsequent
modification of the permit. Any conditional use permit may also be revoked for
good cause. "Good cause" shall include, but not be limited to, the following,
within the discretion of the Planning Commission: a) circumstances which are
detrimental to or have a negative impact on the health, safety and welfare
concerns of the citizens and residents of the City; b) incompatible zoning or
land use; c) complaints of noise, odor, failure to keep dogs or other animals
under proper care and/or control; d) failure to comply with the conditions
imposed at the time the original approval or subsequent modification of the
permit was given; e) the creation and existence of a public or private
nuisance; f) failure of the permit holder or his agents or employees to comply
with the conditions and requirements of applicable State, County and/or Federal
laws, rules and regulations; g) unlawful activities conducted or permitted on
the premises for which the conditional use permit was issued; and/or h) other
legitimate factors. In this regard, three (3) or more legitimate complaints
received by the animal control officer or other law enforcement officers
concerning a dog kennel or any other activity or business allowed by a
conditional use permit may be cause as determined by the Planning Commission
for denying, refusing to renew and/or revoking the conditional use permit.
      2.   Prior to the revocation of a conditional use permit or the denial of
an application to renew a conditional use permit, the permit holder shall be
given a notice which shall state in substance that the Planning Commission
intends to revoke the conditional use permit or deny the application to renew
it, together with the reason or reasons therefor, at a regular or special
meeting of the Planning Commission (which shall be at least 10 days and not
more than 30 days from the date notice is sent) and the permit holder shall
have a right to appear, to be represented by counsel, to hear the evidence
against him/her, to cross examine witnesses and to present evidence as to why
the permit should not be revoked or the application denied.
      3.   Subsection J2 of this section shall not apply to original
applications for conditional use permits which have not previously been issued
or approved by the Planning Commission, and such applicants need only be
informed that their application has been denied and the reasons for such
denial.
   K.   Permit Review: Conditional use permits may be reviewed annually or at
other intervals as stipulated by the Planning Commission.
   L.   Dog Kennel Conditional Use Permits; Special Provisions 1 :
      1.   Each permit shall be granted for a maximum of one calendar year, and
shall expire on December 31 of the year in which it is granted, subject to
renewal during January of the following year; provided, however, that with
respect to any permit granted after July 1 of any year, the Planning Commission
may provide for an expiration date of December 31 of the following year.
      2.   Any public hearing relating to an application for a dog kennel
conditional use permit shall be subject to the provisions of subsection E of
this section. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 5-1-5 of this Code for kennel regulations, and chapters 7 and 8 of this
  title.
10-13-3: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to complying with requirements stated in this chapter, each
applicant for a conditional use permit to allow land leveling, topsoil mining,
mines, quarries and gravel pit operations shall comply with the requirements
and provisions of title 7, chapter 3 of this Code, to the extent applicable,
prior to being granted any conditional use permit for a proposed land leveling,
topsoil mining, mines, quarries and/or gravel pit operation. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-
2018)
CHAPTER 14
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose
10-14-2: Definitions
10-14-3: Building Permit Required
10-14-4: Permitted Signs
10-14-5: Sign Table
10-14-6: Exempt Signs
10-14-1: PURPOSE:
To regulate the location, size, placement, and certain features of signs, that
are compatible with their surroundings; legible under the circumstances in
which they are seen; conductive to promoting traffic safety, and enjoyment of
public travel by preventing visual distraction; protecting pedestrians,
preserving and enhancing property values, and establishing and enhancing high
quality development. (Ord. 2020-4, 8-18-2020)
10-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter and where elsewhere found in this title words
shall have the following meanings:
AWNING/    A sign applied to or painted on a moveable shelter supported entirely from the
CANOPY:    building. It may or may not be able to be folded, retracted, or collapsed
           against the face of the building.
           A temporary sign applied to or painted on a flexible material that is hung
BANNER:    from a pole, which is projected from the face of a building, hung between
           poles, or across a street.
BLADE      A projecting sign that is mounted on a building façade or storefront pole, or
SIGN:      attached to a surface perpendicular to the normal flow of traffic.
CHANGEABLE Signs on marquee, message board, or other replaceable copy area where the sign
COPY SIGN: copy may be changed without altering the sign itself.
COMBINED   A monument sign, advertising multiple pads, or businesses within a location,
MONUMENT   see also “Monument Sign.”
SIGN:
FREE       A sign which is supported by one or more columns, uprights, poles, or braces
STANDING/  extended from the ground, providing that no part of the sign is attached to
POLE SIGN: any part of the building, structure, or monument sign.
MONUMENT   A freestanding sign that is detached from a building and having a support
SIGN:      structure that is a solid-appearing base constructed of a permanent material
           such as concrete, block, or brick.
MURAL:     A large painted picture, executed directly on a wall.
NAME       A small sign or plaque bearing a name or address.
PLATE:
SPECIAL    On-premises special event signage such as flags, banners, or other signs for
EVENT      the purpose of drawing attention to a special event.
SIGN:
           Small informational signs such as lost pet signs, neighborhood or religious
TEMPORARY  activities signs, political signs, advertising signs for daily specials, etc.
SIGN:      These signs must be located within the sign owner's property, and may not be
           affixed to utility poles, fences, sign poles, or trees.
TRAFFIC    Signs required by law, prescribed in the manual of uniform traffic control,
CONTROL    erected by a public agency for traffic control purposes.
SIGNS:
           A sign attached parallel to a building that extends a maximum of twelve inches
WALL SIGN: (12") beyond the surface of the wall. It does not mean a sign that extends
           above the roof line of a building or beyond the edges of a wall it is attached
           to.
           A sign which is painted on, applied, or attached to, or located within one
WINDOW     foot (1') of the interior of a window which can be seen through the window
SIGN:      from the exterior of the structure. A window display shall not be considered a
           window sign. (Ord. 2020-04, 8-18-2020)
 
10-14-3: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is required that a written application be submitted to the City Office
before the construction, alteration, or repair of any sign or part thereof
restricted in this chapter. The sign shall not be commenced or proceeded with,
except after the issuance of a written permit for the same by the Planning
Commission. (Ord. 2020-04, 8-18-2020)
10-14-4: PERMITTED SIGNS:
The following permanent signs, as defined in
10-14-2 shall be permitted in accordance with regulations and standards for
this section. Any sign/sign type not expressly allowed by this chapter is
prohibited.
   A.   Awning/Canopy Signs: Allowed as permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
      Table 10-14-4-A
Awning/Canopy Signs
Awning/Canopy Signs
Maximum height          12 feet
Minimum height          8 feet
Maximum sign copy       40% of awning
Setbacks                May project into buildings setbacks 3 feet
Illumination            External or internal
Number of signs allowed 1 per business/building
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
766ee6dc19509f99f31f884ed2f909d5d8ff6c0d/IMAGES/0-0-0-859.png]
   B.    Banner Signs: Allowed as permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
      Table 10-14-4-B
Banner Signs
Banner Signs
Maximum height          18 feet
Minimum height          8 feet
Maximum sign copy       32 square feet
Setbacks                15 feet from property lines
Illumination            No
Number of signs allowed 1 per building/parcel
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
766ee6dc19509f99f31f884ed2f909d5d8ff6c0d/IMAGES/0-0-0-861.png]
   C.    Blade Sign: Allowed as permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
      Table 10-14-4-C
 
Blade Signs
Minimum height          8 feet above sidewalk
Maximum sign copy       12 square feet
Setbacks                May project 4 feet into ROW
Illumination            External
Number of signs allowed 1 per business/building
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
766ee6dc19509f99f31f884ed2f909d5d8ff6c0d/IMAGES/0-0-0-863.png]
   D.    Changeable Copy: Allowed as permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
      Table 10-14-4-D
 
Changeable Copy Signs
Maximum height          8 feet
Maximum sign copy       64 square feet, of which 50% may contain (non-electric)
                        changeable text
Setbacks                5 feet from property lines
Illumination            Internal or external illumination of sign copy/face
                        only
Number of signs allowed 1 per building/parcel
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
766ee6dc19509f99f31f884ed2f909d5d8ff6c0d/IMAGES/0-0-0-865.png]
   E.    Combined Monument Signs: Allowed as permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. Only one combined monument sign is allowed per
project. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
      Table 10-14-4-E
 
Combined Monument Signs
Maximum height          10 feet
Maximum sign copy       100 square feet
Setbacks                Outside of clear vision triangle
Illumination            Internal or external illumination of sign copy/face
                        only
Number of signs allowed 1 per development
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
766ee6dc19509f99f31f884ed2f909d5d8ff6c0d/IMAGES/0-0-0-867.png]
   F.   Free Standing Pole: Allowed as permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
      Table 10-14-4-F
Free Standing/Pole Signs
Free Standing/Pole Signs
Maximum height          20 feet
Minimum height          8 feet
Maximum sign copy       72 square feet
Setbacks                15 feet from property lines
Illumination            Internal
Number of signs allowed 1 per parcel
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
766ee6dc19509f99f31f884ed2f909d5d8ff6c0d/IMAGES/0-0-0-869.png]
   G.    Monument Signs: Allowed as permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
      Table 10-14-4-G
 
Monument Signs
Maximum height          8 feet
Maximum sign copy       64 square feet
Setbacks                5 feet from property lines
Illumination            Internal or external illumination of sign copy/face
                        only
Number of signs allowed 1 per business/parcel (0 if a combined monument sign is
                        in place)
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
766ee6dc19509f99f31f884ed2f909d5d8ff6c0d/IMAGES/0-0-0-871.png]
   H.    Name Plate: Allowed as permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
      Table 10-14-4-H
 
Name Plate
Maximum height          N/A
Maximum sign copy       2 square feet
Setbacks                On building
Illumination            External
Number of signs allowed 1 per addressed building
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
766ee6dc19509f99f31f884ed2f909d5d8ff6c0d/IMAGES/0-0-0-873.png]
   I.    Special Event Signs: Allowed as permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
      Table 10-14-4-I
Special Event Signs
Special Event Signs
Maximum height          12 feet
Maximum sign copy       32 square feet
Setbacks                Out of clear vision triangles
Illumination            None
                        Flags, banners, and other similar signs allowed to
Special standards       advertise special events. May not be posted for more
                        than 60 days in 1 year.
Number of signs allowed No more than 32 square feet of combined sign copy, per
                        parcel
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
766ee6dc19509f99f31f884ed2f909d5d8ff6c0d/IMAGES/0-0-0-875.png]
   J.   Temporary Signs (Lawn, A-Frame, Sandwich Board, Etc.): Allowed as
permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
      Table 10-14-4-J
 
Temporary Signs
(Lawn, A-Frame, Sandwich Board, Etc.)
Maximum height          8 feet
Maximum sign copy       32 square feet
Setbacks                On property, out of clear view triangles
Illumination            None
Number of signs allowed No more than 32 square feet of combined sign copy, per
                        parcel
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
766ee6dc19509f99f31f884ed2f909d5d8ff6c0d/IMAGES/0-0-0-877.png]
   K.    Traffic Control Signs: Traffic signs as required by law, prescribed in
the manual of uniform traffic control, erected by a public agency are approved
in all zones.
   L.   Wall Signs: Allowed as permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
   Table 10-14-4-L
 
Wall Signs
Maximum height          Same as building it’s located on
Maximum sign copy       200 square feet or 10% of building facade, whichever is
                        larger
Setbacks                May project off building no more than 12"
Illumination            Internal or external
Number of signs allowed No more than 200 square feet (or 10%) of combined sign
                        coverage on facade
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
766ee6dc19509f99f31f884ed2f909d5d8ff6c0d/IMAGES/0-0-0-879.png]
   M.   Window Sign: Allowed as permitted in Table
10-14-5 Permitted Signs. These signs shall conform to the following standards:
      Table 10-14-4-M
 
Window Signs
Maximum height          N/A
Maximum sign copy       20% of window space
Setbacks                N/A
Illumination            Indirect internal
Number of signs allowed 20% of each window
Allowed zones           XX, YY, ZZ, ZZ-2
 
(Ord. 2020-04, 8-18-2020)
10-14-5: SIGN TABLE:
Table 10-14-5: Permitted Signs
Sign Type Zones
          A-10 C-1 M-1 R-1-10
Table 10-14-5: Permitted Signs
Sign Type                                             Zones
                                                      A-10 C-1 M-1 R-1-10
Awning/Canopy                                         P    P   P   N
Banner                                                P    P   P   P
Blade Sign                                            P    P   P   P
Changeable Copy                                       P    P   P   N
Combined Monument                                     P    P   P   P
Free standing pole                                    P    P   P   N
Monument                                              P    P   P   P
Name Plate                                            P    P   P   P
Special Event                                         P    P   P   N
Temporary (Yard signs, A-Frame, Sandwich Board, etc.) P    P   P   P
Traffic Control                                       P    P   P   P
Wall                                                  P    P   P   N
Window                                                P    P   P   P
   P = Permitted, N = Not Permitted
 
(Ord. 2020-04, 8-18-2020)
10-14-6: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all signs erected in Lewiston
City except for the following signs which are exempt. These signs shall still
be subject to safety regulations of the Utah Uniform Building Code.
   A.   Official Government Notices: Notices posted by governmental officers in
performance of their duties to control traffic, or for other regulatory
purposes, or to ward off danger.
   B.   Flags: Of any nation, organization of nations, state, country, city,
religious, civic, fraternal organization, or educational institution.
   C.   Temporary Decorations/Display: Which are clearly incidental to and
customarily and commonly associated with any national, state, local, or
religious holiday or celebration.
   D.   Window Displays: Any display in a window where items are for sale, or
designed to attract individuals (e.g. Christmas displays in department store
windows). (Ord. 2020-04, 8-18-2020)
CHAPTER 15
GROUP HOMES; OTHER FACILITIES
SECTION:
10-15-1: Definitions
10-15-2: Residential Facilities For Persons With A Disability
10-15-3: Residential Facilities For Elderly Persons
10-15-4: Design Standards
10-15-5: Nonresidential Treatment Facilities
10-15-6: Limitations
10-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The following definitions shall apply to all sections of this title and
except as provided herein, shall supersede any other definition contained in
this title:
ADULT DAYCARE FACILITY: Any building or structure furnishing care, supervision,
and guidance for three (3) or more adults unaccompanied by guardian for periods
of less than twenty four (24) hours per day.
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: A residential facility, licensed by the State of
Utah, with a homelike setting that provides an array of coordinated support of
personnel and healthcare services, available twenty four (24) hours per day, to
residents who have been assessed under the Utah Department of Health or the
Utah Department of Human Services rules to need any of these services. Each
resident shall have a service plan based on the assessment, which may include:
      1.   Specified services of intermediate nursing care;
      2.   Administration of medication; and
      3.   Support services promoting residents' independence and self-
sufficiency. Such a facility does not include adult daycare provided in
conjunction with a residential facility for elderly persons or a residential
facility for persons with a disability.
BOARDER: A person living in a rented room in a boarding house. The boarding
house operator or member of his or her immediate family who reside on the
premises with the operator shall not be considered to be a boarder.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building or a portion thereof where, for compensation, rooms
are rented together with meals for not more than fifteen (15) boarders who
generally do not directly utilize kitchen facilities. The operator of a
boarding house must reside on the premises of the boarding house. The work
shall include compensation in money, services, or other things of value. A
boarding house does not include a residential facility for disabled persons or
a residential facility for the elderly. A boarding house does not include a
nonresidential facility, such as a rehabilitation/treatment facility, where the
primary purpose of the facility is to deliver rehabilitation, treatment,
counseling, medical, protective or other similar services to the occupants.
BUILDING, PUBLIC: For purposes of this chapter only, a public building is a
building owned and operated, or owned and intended to be operated by the City,
a public agency of the United States of America, the State of Utah, or any of
its political subdivisions. The use of a public building, with immunity, is
nontransferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than
as a public building with immunity. A public building referred to as with
immunity under the provisions of this title includes:
      1.   Properties owned by the State of Utah or the United States
government which are outside of the jurisdiction of the City zoning authority
as provided under title 10, chapter 9a, section 304, Utah Code Annotated, 1953,
as amended; and
      2.   The ownership or use of a building which is immune from the City
zoning authority under the supremacy clause of the United States Constitution.
COMMUNITY CORRECTIONAL FACILITY: A facility licensed or contracted by the State
of Utah to provide temporary occupancy for previously incarcerated persons
which assists such persons in making a transition from a correctional
institution environment to independent living.
CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION: A prison, jail, juvenile detention facility, or
juvenile secure facility.
DISABILITY: A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of a person's major life activities, including a person having a record of
such a problem or being regarded as having such an impairment. The following
definitions are incorporated into the definition of disability:
      1.   Disability does not include current illegal use of, or addiction to,
any Federally controlled substance as defined in section 102 of the Controlled
Substances Act, 21 USC 802, or as defined under title 58, chapter 37, Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, as amended;
      2.   A physical or mental impairment includes the following:
  a. Any psychological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or
anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
neurological, musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including
speech organs; cardiovascular, reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
  b. Any mental or physiological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic
brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning
disabilities; or
  c. Such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech and hearing
impairments, cerebral palsy, autism, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple
sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV),
mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction (other than addiction
caused by current, illegal use of controlled substances) and alcoholism.
DOMESTIC STAFF: Persons employed or residing on the premises of a dwelling or
other residential facility to perform domestic services or to assist residents
in performing major life activities.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION: Any elementary or secondary school, seminary,
parochial school or private educational institution having a curriculum similar
to that ordinarily given in grades 1 through 12 in public school systems. The
term educational institution for the purpose of this title does not include
post- high school educational facilities or educational facilities which
include residential facilities for its students.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION WITH HOUSING: A public or private educational
institution with residential facilities or housing for its students and/or
staff.
ELDERLY PERSON: A person who is sixty (60) years or older, who desires or needs
to live with other elderly persons in a group setting, but who is capable of
living independently.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption, or
guardianship, and shall also include one additional unrelated individual living
with the family, such as domestic staff, living together as a single nonprofit
housekeeping unit. "Family" does not exclude the care of foster children.
HOSPITAL: An institution licensed by the State of Utah which provides
diagnostic, therapeutic, and rehabilitative services to individuals on both an
inpatient and outpatient basis by or under the supervision of one or more
physicians. A medical clinic or professional office which offers any inpatient
or overnight care, or operates on a twenty four (24) hour basis shall be
considered to be a hospital. A hospital may include necessary support service
facilities such as laboratories, outpatient units and training and central
services, together with staff offices necessary to operate the hospital.
JAIL: A place of incarceration owned and operated by the County.
JUVENILE DETENTION FACILITY: A place of temporary detention for delinquent
juveniles which either is owned or operated by the State of Utah or is under
contract with the State of Utah.
JUVENILE SECURE FACILITY: A place of incarceration for delinquent juveniles
which is either owned or operated by the State of Utah or is under contract
with the State of Utah.
MAJOR LIFE ACTIVITIES: Functions such as caring for oneself, performing manual
tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning and working.
NONRESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY: A facility wherein no persons will be housed
on an overnight basis, and provides services including rehabilitation,
treatment, counseling, or assessment and evaluation services related to
delinquent behavior, alcohol abuse, drug abuse, sexual offenders, sexual abuse,
or mental health. Associated educational services may also be provided to
juvenile occupants.
NURSING HOME: An intermediate care/nursing facility or a skilled nursing
facility licensed by the State of Utah, for the care of individuals who, due to
illness, advanced age, disability, or impairment require assistance and/or
supervision on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis. Such a facility does not
include an adult daycare facility or adult daycare provider in conjunction with
residential facilities for elderly persons or a residential facility for
persons with a disability.
PRISON: A place of incarceration owned or operated by the State of Utah.
PRIVATE JAIL: A place of incarceration established or operated under a contract
with the County.
PRIVATE PRISON: A correctional facility established or operated under a
contract with the State of Utah under the provisions of the Private
Correctional Facilities Act, title 64, chapter 13d, Utah Code Annotated, 1953,
as amended.
PROTECTIVE HOUSING FACILITY: A facility either: 1) operated, licensed, or
contracted by a governmental entity, or 2) operated by a charitable, nonprofit
organization, where for no compensation, temporary, protective housing is
provided to: 1) abused or neglected children waiting placement of foster care;
2) pregnant or parenting teens; 3) victims of sexual abuse; or 4) victims of
domestic abuse.
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION: A change in any rule, policy, practice, or service
necessary to afford a person with a disability equal opportunity to use and
enjoy a dwelling. The following words have the following definitions:
       Equal Opportunity: Achieving equal results as between a person with a
disability and a nondisabled person.
     Necessary: The applicant must show that, but for the accommodation one or
more persons with a disability likely will be denied an equal opportunity to
enjoy the housing of their choice.
     Reasonable: A requested accommodation that will not undermine the
legitimate purpose of existing zoning regulations, notwithstanding the benefit
that the accommodation will provide to a person with a disability.
RECORD OF IMPAIRMENT: Having a record of impairment means having a history of,
or having been misclassified as having a mental or physical impairment that
substantially limits one or more major life activities.
REGARDED AS HAVING AN IMPAIRMENT: A person is regarded as having an impairment
when:
      1.   The person has a physical or mental impairment that does not
substantially limit one or more major life activities but is treated by another
person as having such a limitation;
      2.   The person has a physical or mental impairment that substantially
limits one or more major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of
others towards such an impairment; or
      3.   The person has none of the impairments defined in this section but
is treated by another person as having such an impairment.
REHABILITATION/TREATMENT FACILITY: A facility licensed or contracted by the
State of Utah to provide temporary occupancy and supervision of individuals
(adults and/or juveniles) in order to provide rehabilitation, treatment or
counseling services. Without limitation, such services may include
rehabilitation, treatment, counseling, or assessment and evaluation services
related to delinquent behavior, alcohol abuse, drug abuse, sexual offenders,
sexual abuse, or mental health. Associated educational services may also be
provided to juvenile occupants.
RELATED: Related by blood, marriage or adoption within the definition of
"family" means a father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, sister, brother,
uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in- law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or
grandchild, to include the half as well as the whole blood.
RESIDENCE, RESIDENTIAL FACILITY: Any building or portion thereof where an
individual is actually living at a given point and time and intends to remain,
and not a place of temporary sojourn or transient visit.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS: A dwelling unit that is occupied on a
twenty four (24) hour per day basis by eight (8) or fewer elderly persons in a
family type arrangement. A residential facility for elderly persons shall not
include any of the following:
      1.   A facility which is operated as a business; provided that such
facility may not be considered to be operated as a business solely because a
fee is charged for food or for actual and necessary costs of preparation and
maintenance of the facility;
      2.   A facility where persons being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse
are placed; a facility where placement is not on a strictly voluntary basis or
where placement is part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or
treatment in a correctional institution; or a facility which is a healthcare
facility as defined by title 26, chapter 21, section 2, Utah Code Annotated,
1953, as amended; or a facility which is a residential facility for persons
with a disability.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY: A residence in which more
than one person with a disability resides and which is:
      1.   Licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under
title 62A, chapter 2, of the Utah Code, Licensure of Programs and Facilities;
or
      2.   Licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under Utah
Code Annotated title 26, chapter 21, Health Care Facility Licensing and
Inspection Act.
RETIREMENT HOME: A residential facility designated, occupied, and intended for
residents fifty (50) years of age or older where common facilities for cooking
and dining are available to all residents and independent facilities are
provided for living, sleeping and sanitation.
SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS: Charitable lodging or sleeping rooms provided on a
temporary basis (usually on a daily basis) to those members of society lacking
other safe, sanitary or affordable shelter. A shelter for the homeless may also
include kitchen and cafeteria facilities.
SHELTERED WORKSHOP: An on site supervised educational or vocational training
facility for persons with a disability and does not provide any residential
facilities.
TRADE OR VOCATIONAL SCHOOL: A post-high school educational or vocational
training facility.
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITY: A facility owned, operated or contracted by a
governmental entity or a charitable, not for profit organization, where, for no
compensation, temporary housing (usually 3 to 24 months, but in no event less
than 30 days) is provided to homeless persons, while they obtain work, job
skills, or otherwise take steps to stabilize their circumstances. A
transitional housing facility shall not include a shelter for the homeless, and
a dwelling unit provided to a family for the exclusive use as part of a
transitional housing program, for more than thirty (30) days, shall not be
considered to be a transitional housing facility. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-15-2: RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY:
   A.   Applicability: This section shall be deemed to govern any facility,
residence, or other circumstance that meets the definition of a residential
facility as set forth in this chapter, and the definition of a disabled person
as set forth in this chapter; for the requirements of this section shall govern
the same notwithstanding any other provisions of Lewiston City ordinances.
   B.   Purpose: The purposes of this section are:
      1.   To comply with title 10, chapter 9a, section 520, Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, as amended; and
      2.   To avoid discrimination in housing against persons with disabilities
as provided in the Utah Fair Housing Act and the Federal Fair Housing
Amendments Act as interpreted by the courts having jurisdiction over Lewiston
City.
   C.   Requirements: A residential facility for persons with a disability
shall be a permitted use in any zoning district where a dwelling is allowed.
Each such facility shall conform to the following requirements:
      1.   The facility shall comply with all applicable building, safety and
health regulations, the Americans With Disabilities Act, fire regulations, and
all applicable State core standards and licensing requirements, and any
standards set forth in any contract with a State agency. The facility shall
also comply with the City's land use zoning provisions applicable to single
family dwellings for the zone in which it is to be located, except as may be
modified by the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The following site development standards and parking standards shall
be applicable:
         a.   Each facility shall be subject to minimum site development
standards applicable to a dwelling unit in the zone in which the facility is
located; and
         b.   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be the same
as the number required for a dwelling with similar occupancy density in the
same zone.
      3.   No facility shall be made available to an individual who has
demonstrated, by prior behavior, actions and/or criminal convictions, or as a
resident, that he or she:
         a.   May be determined to be or does constitute a direct threat to the
health or safety of other individuals; or
         b.   Has or may engage in conduct resulting in substantial physical
damage to the property of others.
      4.   Prior to occupancy of the facility, the person or entity licensed or
certified by the Department of Human Services or the Department of Health to
establish and operate the facility shall:
         a.   Provide a certified copy of such license to the City Recorder;
         b.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act;
         c.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, that no person will be placed or remain in the facility
whose prior or current behavior, actions and/or criminal incidents or
convictions, has demonstrated that such person is or may be a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals, or whose said behavior, actions and/
or incidents or convictions has resulted in substantial physical damage to the
property of others.
      5.   The use permitted by this section is nontransferable and shall
terminate if:
         a.   A facility is devoted to or used as other than a residential
facility for persons with a disability; or
         b.   The license or certification issued by the Department of Human
Services, Department of Health or any other applicable agency, terminates or is
revoked; or
         c.   The facility fails to comply with the conditions set forth in
this section.
      6.   In an R-1 Zone no residential facility for persons with a disability
shall exceed six (6) residents, not including staff, or the family that owns
the residence.
      7.   In an A Zone, no residential facility for persons with disabilities
shall exceed twelve (12) residents, not including staff, or the family that
owns the residence.
      8.   In a C Zone, no residential facility for persons with disabilities
shall exceed twelve (12) residents, not including staff, or the family that
owns the residence.
      9.   No residential facilities for persons with disabilities shall be
permitted in the M-1 Zone.
   D.   Reasonable Accommodations: None of the foregoing conditions shall be
interpreted to limit reasonable accommodations necessary to allow the
establishment or occupancy of a residential facility for person(s) with a
disability.
      1.   Any person or entity who wishes to request a reasonable
accommodation shall make application to the City Planning Commission. Said
applications shall specifically articulate, in writing, the following:
         a.   The name, mailing address, and phone number of the applicant;
         b.   The nature and extent of the disability;
         c.   An exact statement of the ordinance or policy from which the
applicant needs a reasonable accommodation;
         d.   The applicant's proposed reasonable accommodations;
         e.   A statement detailing why a reasonable accommodation is
necessary; and
         f.   The physical address of the property where the applicant intends
on living.
      2.   When considering whether or not to grant a reasonable accommodation,
the City Planning Commission shall consider the following factors, among others
deemed appropriate and applicable:
         a.   The zoning ordinance applicable to the property;
         b.   The parking, traffic, and noise impact on the neighborhood if the
reasonable accommodation is granted;
         c.   Whether or not the accommodation will be an undue burden or
expense to the City;
         d.   The extent to which the accommodation will or will not benefit
the applicant;
         e.   The extent to which the accommodation will or will not benefit
the community;
         f.   Whether or not the accommodation fundamentally alters the
Citywide zoning ordinance and whether or not the accommodation would likely
create a fundamental change in the character of a residential neighborhood;
         g.   Whether or not the applicant has demonstrated that the
accommodation will affirmatively enhance the applicant's life, or ameliorate
the effects of the applicant's disability, or the lives or disabilities on
whose behalf the entity is applying;
         h.   Whether or not, without the accommodation, similar housing is
available in Lewiston City for the applicant or group of applicants;
         i.   Given the scope of the accommodation requested, what is the
impact on the immediate neighborhood; and
         j.   The requirements of applicable Federal and State laws and
regulations.
      3.   Written findings and conclusions of the City Planning Commission
shall be sent to the applicant within thirty (30) days after the decision by
the City Planning Commission; and
      4.   If a request for a reasonable accommodation is denied, such decision
may be appealed to the Appeal Authority under the requirements as stipulated
under section
10-5-3 of this title. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-15-3: RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to comply with Utah Code 62A-3.
   B.   Requirements: "Residential facilities for elderly persons" shall comply
with all requirements of Utah Code 62A-3, and also the following requirements:
      1.   The facility shall meet all applicable Building Codes, Safety Codes,
zoning regulations, the Americans With Disabilities Act, and health ordinances
applicable to single-family or similar dwellings; except as may be modified by
the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   No facility shall be made available to an individual who has
demonstrated, by prior behavior, actions and/or criminal convictions, or as a
resident, that he or she:
         a.   May be determined to be or does constitute a direct threat to the
health or safety of other individuals; or
         b.   Has or may engage in conduct resulting in substantial physical
damage to the property of others;
      3.   Minimum site development standards shall be the same as those for a
dwelling unit in the zone in which the facility is located;
      4.   The facility shall be capable of being used as a residential
facility for elderly persons without structural or landscaping alterations that
would change the structure's residential character;
      5.   The use granted and permitted by this section is nontransferable and
terminates if the structure is devoted to any use other than as a residential
facility for the elderly or if the structure fails to comply with the
applicable Health, Safety, Zoning and Building Codes; and
      6.   No residential facility for elderly persons which facility has more
than five (5) elderly persons in residence shall be established or maintained
within seven hundred feet (700') measured in a straight line between the
closest property lines of the lots or parcels of similar facilities,
residential facilities for persons with disabilities, protective housing
facilities, transitional housing facilities, assisted living facilities,
rehabilitation/treatment facilities, or a nonresidential treatment facility.
(Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-15-4: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Any newly constructed, or remodeled, facility in a residential zone or
immediately abutting a residential zone shall comply with the following design
standards:
      1.   All setbacks shall be according to the requirements of the
residential zone in which the facility sits, or if the facility is in a
Commercial Zone abutting a residential zone the setbacks shall be those of the
abutting residential zone;
      2.   All required or accessory parking areas shall be located either in
the rear yard area of the lot, or behind the main building or garage;
      3.   Notwithstanding the maximum height restrictions of the individual
residential zone, new building or additional buildings shall not exceed one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the average height of the closest dwellings on
both sides of the proposed structure.
      4.   In order for new construction to reflect the design and character of
the existing neighborhood the following standards shall be met:
         a.   The roof design of the proposed structure or remodel roof shall
be a pitched roof of the same slope as the most common roof slope of the homes
on the side of the block which the building is proposed on; and
         b.   The type of exterior materials shall be of traditional home
finished materials of brick, siding, or stucco. The use of these materials
shall be applied in such a manner as to blend in with the neighborhood where
the building is located and not draw undue attention to the building because of
the materials, their color and combination being uncharacteristic of the other
buildings in the neighborhood.
      5.   No facility shall be made available to an individual who has
demonstrated, by prior behavior, actions and/or criminal convictions, or as a
resident, that he or she:
         a.   May be determined to be or does constitute a direct threat to the
health or safety of other individuals; or
         b.   Has or may engage in conduct resulting in substantial physical
damage to the property of others.
      6.   To the extent similar requirements to any contained in this section
are contained in the specific zone in which any facility referred to herein may
be located, the more restrictive provisions shall apply, and the requirements
stated herein shall be considered to be in addition to presently existing
zoning regulations. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-15-5: NONRESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITIES:
   A.   Nonresidential treatment facilities shall not be built within Lewiston
City except as specifically allowed as a permitted or conditional use by proper
designation in a zone or zones in this title. Each permitted facility, or
facility allowed as a conditional use, shall conform to the following
requirements:
      1.   The facility shall comply with all building, safety, zoning and
health regulations, the Americans With Disabilities Act, fire regulations, and
all applicable State core standards and licensing requirements, and any
standards set forth in any contract with a State agency.
      2.   The following site development standards and parking standards shall
be applicable:
         a.   Each facility shall be subject to minimum site development
standards applicable to a business in the zone in which the facility may be
located; and
         b.   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be the same
as the number required for an office building with similar size, occupancy, and
density in the same zone.
      3.   Prior to occupancy of the facility, the person or entity licensed or
certified by the Department of Human Services or the Department of Health to
establish and operate the facility shall:
         a.   Provide a certified copy of such license with the City Recorder;
         b.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with application for a
business license, compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act.
      4.   The use permitted by this section is nontransferable and shall
terminate if:
         a.   A facility is devoted to or used as other than a nonresidential
facility; or
         b.   The license or certification issued by the Department of Human
Services, Department of Health or any other applicable agency, terminates or is
revoked, or the facility fails to comply with the conditions set forth in this
section.
      5.   No nonresidential treatment facility shall be established or
maintained within seven hundred feet (700') measured in a straight line between
the closest property lines of the lots or parcels of the following facilities:
         a.   A residential facility for persons with a disability;
         b.   A residential facility for elderly with more than five (5)
elderly persons in a residence; or
         c.   Any of the following facilities: protective housing facility,
transitional housing facility, assisted living facility or rehabilitation/
treatment facility, a nonresidential treatment facility, and elementary
schools.
      6.   No facility shall be made available to an individual who has
demonstrated, by prior behavior, actions and/or criminal convictions, or as a
resident, that he or she:
         a.   May be determined to be or does constitute a direct threat to the
health or safety of other individuals; or
         b.   Has or may engage in conduct resulting in substantial physical
damage to the property of others.
      7.   To the extent similar requirements to any contained in this section
are contained in the specific zone in which any facility referred to herein may
be located, the more restrictive provisions shall apply, and the requirements
stated herein shall be considered to be in addition to presently existing
zoning regulations. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-15-6: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Only such uses and facilities as are specifically authorized in this
chapter and in this title as permitted or conditional uses shall be allowed.
All other uses and facilities are prohibited. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 16
ACCESSORY APARTMENTS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Purpose
10-16-2: Conditions
10-16-3: Application Procedures
10-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of permitting an accessory apartment is to:
   A.   Provide homeowners with a means of obtaining, through tenants in an
accessory apartment, rental income, companionship, security and services, and
thereby to enable them to stay more comfortably in homes and neighborhoods they
might otherwise be forced to leave;
   B.   Add inexpensive rental units to the available housing within the City
to meet the needs of smaller households, both young and old;
   C.   Make housing units available to moderate income households who might
otherwise have difficulty finding homes within the City;
   D.   Develop accessory apartments where single family dwellings are allowed
that are appropriate for small households at a variety of stages in the life
cycle, thereby lessening fluctuations in neighborhood demand for particular
services. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-16-2: CONDITIONS:
   A.   A conditional use permit may be granted and must be obtained for a use
to be known as accessory apartment rental in owner occupied single family
dwellings, provided that the following standards and criteria are met:
      1.   Separate Unit: The apartment will be a separate housekeeping unit
that can be isolated within the original single family dwelling.
      2.   One Apartment Only: Only one apartment will be created within a
single family dwelling.
      3.   Owner To Occupy: The owner(s) of the single family dwelling in which
the accessory apartment is created shall occupy at least one of the dwelling
units in the single family dwelling, except for periods of bona fide temporary
absences as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      4.   Design; Appearance: The accessory apartment shall be designed so
that the appearance of the building remains that of a single family dwelling.
Any new entrances shall be located on the side or the rear of the single family
dwelling.
      5.   Conformance With Codes: The design and size of the apartment must
conform to all applicable standards in Health, Building and other codes.
Certification by the Health Department must be issued stating that the waste
disposal system is sized according to total available bedrooms in the house
before a conditional use permit is granted.
      6.   Parking: At least three (3) off street hard surface parking areas
shall be available for use by the owner-occupant(s) and tenant(s). Parking
shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the front or side property yards.
      7.   Other Considerations For An Accessory Apartment:
         a.   Building Permit: A building permit shall be obtained by the
homeowner from the City before the commencement of any new construction of an
accessory apartment, and a certificate of occupancy shall be obtained, as
required by section
10-3-2 of this title, prior to anyone occupying an accessory apartment dwelling
unit.
         b.   Sale Of Single Family Dwelling: Any conditional use permit
granted for an accessory apartment rental, as herein provided, shall become
null and void upon the sale of the single family dwelling in which it is
located, unless a new conditional use permit is applied for and obtained by the
purchaser(s) of the single family dwelling in which said accessory apartment
rental is located as provided in subsection 10-16-3C of this chapter.
         c.   Review For Renewal: Any conditional use permit granted will be
reviewed on or about the third anniversary of the date on which it was issued
and each third anniversary date thereafter, until it is terminated or otherwise
is no longer in use. Said permit may, however, be immediately reviewed and
terminated or modified at any time if it is determined that this title, this
chapter, or any other ordinances or regulations of the City are not or have not
been continuously complied with.
         d.   Nonuse For One Year: Any accessory apartment rental that is not
occupied and so used for a period of one year or longer shall be deemed
abandoned, the conditional use permit expired and the residence shall revert to
use as a single family residence only.
      8.   Other Appropriate Conditions: Any other appropriate or more
stringent conditions deemed necessary by the Planning and Zoning Commission to
protect public health, safety and welfare, and the single family character of
the neighborhood may be included as a part of any conditional use permit.
   B.   Accessory apartments are allowed in the A Agriculture Zone, and the R-
1 Single Family Residential Zones. (Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
10-16-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a conditional use permit for an accessory apartment
shall be made to the Planning and Zoning Commission in accordance with the
conditional use permit procedures given in chapter 13 of this title and shall
include:
      1.   A notarized letter accompanying the application from the owner(s)
stating that the owner will occupy one of the dwelling units in the single
family dwelling except for periods of bona fide temporary absences;
      2.   A floor plan to the scale of one-fourth inch (1/4") to the foot
showing proposed changes to the single family dwelling;
      3.   A site plan;
      4.   The fee as set forth by the most recent prevailing fee schedule
adopted by resolution of the City Council to cover the costs of processing the
application, legal notices and code inspection.
   B.   Within forty five (45) days of the receipt of an application, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing. Legal notice of
such public hearing shall be published in the local newspaper at least ten (10)
days prior to the public hearing.
   C.   The purchasers of a single family dwelling that had or has a
conditional use permit for an accessory apartment who want to continue renting
the apartment must reapply for a conditional use permit and must demonstrate
that all conditions prerequisite to obtaining the relevant permit, in
particular their residence in the single family dwelling, have been met.
   D.   Where appropriate, the Planning and Zoning Commission will take steps
to expedite approval or to give conditional approval prior to sale in order to
protect continued residence in an accessory apartment by existing tenants.
(Ord. 18-01, 1-16-2018)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Purpose And Authority
11-1-3: Definitions And Applicability
11-1-4: Jurisdiction And Penalty
11-1-5: Severability (Effect)
11-1-6: General Responsibilities
11-1-7: Site Preparation Work Prohibited
11-1-8: Incomplete Application
11-1-9: Effective Period Of A Subdivision Plat
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the LEWISTON CITY SUBDIVISION
ORDINANCE and may be identified within this document as "the ordinance", "this
title" or "subdivision ordinance". (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-1-2: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
The Lewiston City Council adopts this title pursuant to the Municipal Land Use,
Development, and Management Act, title 10, chapter 9a, Utah Code Annotated,
1953, for the purposes set forth therein. This title is established to promote
the health, safety and welfare of residents of Lewiston City and to provide for
the orderly subdivision of land within the incorporated area of Lewiston, Utah.
(Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS AND APPLICABILITY:
For the purposes of this title all terms shall have the same definition as
provided by section 10-9a-103, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, and those
in title 10, chapter 7 of this Code. In the event of a conflict in
interpretation between the Utah Code and this title, the Utah Code shall
prevail. The following terms used in this title shall have the respective
meanings hereinafter set forth:
BLOCK: A piece of land surrounded by streets or other rights-of-way other than
an alley or land which is designed as a block on any recorded subdivision plat.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street which carries traffic from all areas to the major
street system.
CROSSWALK AND WALKWAY: A right-of-way designated for use by pedestrians and not
intended for use by motor vehicles of any kind.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being terminated at the other end
by a vehicular turnaround.
DRIVEWAY: A private roadway the use of which is limited by persons residing,
employed or otherwise using or visiting the lot on which the roadway is
located.
EASEMENT: The quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege or
advantage in land without profit, existing distinct from the ownership of the
land, is granted to the public or some particular person or part of the public.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT: A report which describes by means of written
narrative as well as maps a geological area in terms of existing: slope, soils,
watercourses, water table, flood hazard areas, geologic hazards, vegetative
types, wildlife, wildlife habitat, and available urban services (i.e.,
electricity, gas, roads, schools, culinary water, sewage facilities, police and
fire protection).
FEEDER STREET: A street existing or proposed which is supplementary to a
collector street and of limited continuity which serves or is intended to serve
the local needs of a neighborhood.
FINAL PLAT: A subdivision map prepared in accordance with the provisions of
this title that is accurately surveyed and such survey marked on the ground so
that streets, alleys, blocks, lots and other divisions thereof can be
identified, and which is designated to be placed on record in the Office of the
County Recorder.
LOT: A portion of the subdivision or parcel of land intended as a unit for
building development or transfer of ownership.
MAJOR STREET: A street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to
serve as a major traffic way, as a controlled access highway, major street
parkway or by other equivalent term to identify those streets comprising the
basic structure of the street plan.
MASTER PLAN: A plan including maps or reports or both which has been approved
by the City Council and the Planning Commission, which helps to establish lines
of current and future planned streets, roads, highways, etc., as provided in
Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-301 et seq. The terms "Master Plan",
"Comprehensive Plan" and "General Plan" are synonymous.
MINOR STREET: A street, existing or proposed, which is supplementary to a
collector or major street and of limited continuity, which serves or is
intended to serve the local needs of a neighborhood.
OFFICIAL MAP: Any map adopted by the City Council under the provision of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-9a-301 et seq.
OWNER: Means and refers to the person, corporation, partnership or other entity
in which is vested the fee simple unencumbered title of the property to be
subdivided, unless otherwise clearly indicated, and shall include the plural as
well as the singular.
PARCEL: A contiguous quantity of land, in the possession of or owned by, or
recorded as the property of, the same claimant, person or owner, and bearing
one County tax number.
SUBDIVIDE (And Any Derivative Thereof): Shall have reference to the term
"subdivision", as herein defined.
SUBDIVIDER: One who subdivides a parcel of land and may also be referred to as
a developer.
SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided
into two (2) or more lots, plots, parcels, sites, units, or other division of
land after May 4, 1970, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for
offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any
and all other plans, terms, and conditions. Subdivision includes the division
or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise
and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded instrument.
SUBDIVISION, MAJOR: A subdivision containing six (6) or more lots.
SUBDIVISION, MINI: A subdivision containing three (3) to five (5) lots and
which does not qualify as a lot-split subdivision.
SUBDIVISION OF LAND FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES: A division of a parcel into two
(2) or more lots, none of which is smaller than ten (10) acres. (Ord. 13-01, 4-
16-2013)
11-1-4: JURISDICTION AND PENALTY:
This title shall govern and apply to the subdivision, platting and recording of
all lands lying within the incorporated area of Lewiston City, Utah.
   A.   No person shall subdivide any land, nor shall any building permit,
other required development approval, or any other license or permit be issued
for any lot or parcel of land which is located wholly, or in part, within the
incorporated area of Lewiston City, except in compliance with this title, and
all other applicable local, State and Federal laws.
   B.   Any plat of a subdivision, or any survey description, filed or recorded
without the approvals required by this title is deemed to be void, for the
purposes of development or the issuance of a building permit, as required by
section 10-9a-611 et seq., Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended.
   C.   Any owner or agent of the owner of any land located in a subdivision,
as defined herein, who transfers or sells any land located within the
subdivision before the subdivision has been approved and recorded, in the
Office of the Cache County Recorder, consistent with the requirements of this
title, and applicable local, State and Federal requirements is guilty of a
violation of this title, and section 10-9a-611 et seq., Utah Code Annotated,
1953, as amended, for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.
   D.   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument or transfer or
other documents used in the process of selling or transferring lots, plots,
parcels, sites, units, or other division of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the
installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions does
not exempt the transaction from the requirements of this title and such action
from the penalties or remedies provided by this title, or the laws of the State
of Utah. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-1-5: SEVERABILITY (EFFECT):
If any section, provision, sentence or clause of this title is declared
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such determination shall
not impair the validity of the remainder of this title which shall remain in
full force and effect. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-1-6: GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The subdivider shall prepare a plat consistent with the standards
contained herein and shall pay for the design and inspection of the public
improvements required. The City shall process said plats in accordance with the
regulations set forth herein.
   B.   Following a determination of a complete subdivision application by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, the subdivision application shall be scheduled
for consideration by the Planning and Zoning Commission at a regular meeting.
      1.   Notice of the meeting shall be provided as required by the Open and
Public Meetings provisions of Utah Code Annotated (1953, as amended) title 52,
chapter 4, and within section 10-9a, part 2, Utah Code Annotated (1953, as
amended).
      2.   Additional notice shall be provided by U.S. mail to all owners of
record of real property adjacent to the subdivision site.
   C.   Proposed subdivisions shall be referred by the Zoning Administrator to
such departments and special districts, governmental boards, bureaus, utility
companies, and other agencies which will provide public and private facilities
and services to the subdivision for their information and comment. The Planning
and Zoning Commission is responsible for coordinating the comments received
from all public and private entities and shall decide which agencies to refer
the proposed subdivisions to.
   D.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall make comments as to
engineering requirements for street widths, grades, alignments and flood
control, whether the proposed public improvements are consistent with this
title and other applicable ordinances and policies, and for the inspection and
approval of all construction of public improvements.
   E.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall act as an advisory agency to
the City Council. It is charged with making investigations, reports and
recommendations on proposed subdivisions as to their conformance to the City
General Plan, land use ordinance, and other pertinent documents. The Planning
and Zoning Commission shall recommend approval, approval with conditions, or
denial of the preliminary and final plats to the City Council.
   F.   The Zoning Administrator shall approve the form of the final plat, that
the subdivider dedicating land for use of the public is the owner of record,
and that the land is free and clear of unacceptable encumbrances according to
the title report.
   G.   The City Council has final jurisdiction in the approval of subdivision
plats; the establishment of requirements for and design standards of public
improvements; and the acceptance of lands and public improvements that may be
proposed for dedication. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-1-7: SITE PREPARATION WORK PROHIBITED:
No excavation, grading or regarding, or removal of vegetation for a proposed
subdivision site shall take place and no building permits shall be issued,
until a proposed subdivision has received approval from the City Council or
authorized designee, and the subdivision has been recorded in the Office of the
Cache County Recorder. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-1-8: INCOMPLETE APPLICATION:
The lack of any information required by this title, or improper information
supplied by the applicant, shall be cause for the City Zoning Administrator to
find the subdivision application incomplete. An incomplete subdivision
application shall be prohibited from being scheduled on a Planning and Zoning
Commission meeting agenda. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall not
consider any material, items or other information related to the proposed
subdivision if the application is incomplete. If the City Zoning Administrator
determines that the subdivision application lacks any information as required
by this title, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant of the
information lacking from the subdivision application. The Zoning Administrator
shall allow sixty (60) days from the date of notification of an incomplete
subdivision application for the applicant to provide the required information
and provide a complete subdivision application to the Zoning Administrator. If
the application for a subdivision approval remains incomplete after sixty (60)
days from date of notification of an incomplete subdivision application, the
Zoning Administrator shall return the entire incomplete subdivision application
to the applicant, accompanied by all subdivision application fees paid less any
administrative expenses incurred by the City to process the application. (Ord.
13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-1-9: EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF A SUBDIVISION PLAT:
The approval of a preliminary or final subdivision plat shall be effective for
a period of one year from the date the plat is approved by the City Council. If
the approved plat is not recorded within one year from the date of approval the
plat and approval shall be void, and the applicant shall be required to submit
a new application for review and approval subject to the existing provisions of
this title and all other applicable local, State, and Federal requirements in
effect at the time of the submission of the application. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-
2013)
CHAPTER 2
TYPE AND PROCESS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Standards And Lot Size
11-2-2: Lot-Split Subdivision
11-2-3: Cluster Subdivision
11-2-4: Mini-Subdivision
11-2-5: Approval Process
11-2-6: Plat Amendment
11-2-7: Lot Line Adjustments
11-2-1: STANDARDS AND LOT SIZE:
All subdivisions must meet the minimum lot and development standards as
outlined in each base zone of the Lewiston City zoning ordinance and within
this title. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-2-2: LOT-SPLIT SUBDIVISION:
   A.   A lot split subdivision is the subdivision of a single parcel of real
property into two (2) separate lots. Lot split subdivisions may be approved in
accordance with this section and, except as otherwise provided in this section,
are exempt from the subdivision plat and other requirements of title 11,
Subdivision Regulations.
   B.   The Planning Commission shall be the land use authority to decide lot
split subdivision applications. The applicant for a lot split subdivision must
be the record owner of the property proposed to be subdivided or a duly
authorized agent for the record owner as evidenced in writing signed by the
record owner.
   C.   A lot split may be approved by the Planning Commission if the following
conditions are met:
      1.   The property being subdivided is not traversed by the mapped lines
of a proposed street as shown in the City's General Plan;
      2.   The City's culinary water authority and sanitary sewer authority
have approved the subdivision;
      3.   The property being subdivided has been zoned; and
      4.   The subdivision conforms to all applicable land use ordinances or
has properly received a variance from the requirements of an otherwise
conflicting and applicable land use ordinance.
   D.   As a condition of approval of an application for a lot split, the
Planning Commission may require the installation of the following
infrastructure:
      1.   Culinary water and sewer lines connecting to both the parent parcel
and the parcel which was subdivided;
      2.   Power lines with connection to the existing power supply;
      3.   Curbing, gutters, and other stormwater drainage systems appropriate
for the property;
      4.   Sidewalks and park strips on portions of the parent parcel and the
parcel which was subdivided from the parent parcel that abut any street; and
      5.   Any other infrastructure deemed necessary by the Planning Commission
to address the impact of the development of either the parent parcel or the
parcel which was subdivided from the parent parcel.
   E.   Lot split subdivision applications shall be approved through the
following process:
      1.   The applicant shall file a complete lot split subdivision
application with the City Recorder and pay any application fee established by
the City.
      2.   The officer appointed by the City Council for the purposes of this
section (the "Administrator") shall perform an initial review of the
application to verify the application is complete and any applicable fee has
been paid. If not, the Administrator shall notify the applicant of the
deficiency. The City Recorder shall be the Administrator for the purposes of
this section when there is not another officer appointed by the City Council.
      3.   Upon the Administrator's verification the application is complete
and any applicable fee has been paid, the Administrator shall send a copy of
the application to the City's culinary water authority and sanitary sewer
authority and request written approval of the application from them. The
Administrator may also send copies of the application to the City Attorney or
City Engineer if, in the Administrator's discretion, professional review would
be helpful in the accurate processing of the application.
      4.   If the City's culinary water authority or sanitary sewer authority
denies approval of the application, then the Administrator shall provide notice
to the applicant of the denial and the application shall be returned to the
applicant without further action by the City.
      5.   If the City's culinary water authority and sanitary sewer authority
approves the application, then the Administrator shall place the application on
the agenda for the next available meeting of the Planning Commission. The City
Administrator may also provide a staff report to the Planning Commission
regarding any matters identified by the culinary water authority, sanitary
sewer authority, City Attorney, or City Engineer.
      6.   At a duly noticed public meeting of the Planning Commission, the
Planning Commission shall approve or deny the application for a lot split
subdivision based on the requirements set forth in this section. 
      7.   If the Planning Commission approves the lot split subdivision, it
shall provide a written Certificate of Approval to the applicant in a form
approved by the City Attorney. The applicant shall record in the Cache County
Recorder's Office the Certificate of Approval as an attachment to the
instrument effectuating the lot split subdivision. The Certificate of Approval
shall act as a restrictive covenant against title on both lots arising out of
the lot splits and thereby provide notice of the restrictions set forth in
paragraph F. below.
   F.   Real property that has been subdivided as a lot split subdivision under
this section, both the parent parcel and the parcel which was subdivided from
the parent parcel, may not be further subdivided pursuant to a lot split
subdivision. Any further subdivision of any property that has been subdivided
pursuant to a lot split subdivision must be completed in accordance with
chapter 3 of title 11 of the Lewiston City Code and all property that was part
of the lot split subdivision must be included in, and being made part of, the
subdivision.  (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013; amd. Ord. 19-02, 11-19-2019; Ord. 20-03,
5-19-2020)
11-2-3: CLUSTER SUBDIVISION:
The cluster subdivision option is provided by the City to address the unique
circumstances created by lot configuration or current use and to preserve
agricultural lands within Lewiston. Full compliance with all the provisions of
this title and all other applicable State and Federal regulations is required.
   A.   An application for a cluster subdivision shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator. The application requirements for the preliminary
subdivision plat and the final subdivision plat shall apply.
   B.   A cluster subdivision shall be allowed only in the Agricultural Zone.
The total number of dwelling units allowed in a cluster subdivision shall be
the same as the number allowed by the lot area requirements in the Agricultural
Zone, which is one unit per ten (10) acres.
   C.   The following development standards shall apply to all cluster
subdivisions:
      1.   The minimum residential lot size in a cluster subdivision shall be
three-fourths (3/4) acre.
      2.   Each such separately described three-quarter (3/4) acre or larger
lot shall have frontage on an existing Class C public road with access to an
adequate water line, with the adequacy of any water line to be determined with
the approval of the Public Works Director. The decision regarding the adequacy
of the water line may be appealed to the City Council and the decision of the
City Council shall be final. Any appeal shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of subsection 10-13-2G of this Code.
      3.   The minimum lot frontage for a clustered residential lot shall be
one hundred fifty feet (150'). The maximum remaining frontage of one hundred
feet (100') required in the Agricultural Zone shall be required on the
remaining agriculture parcel. The total frontage of the agriculture lot and the
residential lot shall equal two hundred fifty feet (250') as required by
section
10-9-14 of this Code.
      4.   All buildings shall be prohibited within the clear view area. The
clear view is defined as a triangular area formed by the diagonal line
connecting lines at the edge of the pavement one hundred feet (100') from the
projected intersection of such lines.
   D.   Subdivisions containing a parcel for agricultural production shall be
accompanied by a signed agreement which shall be recorded in the County
Recorder's Office stating that commercial and residential structures and uses
are not permitted on the agricultural parcel. The format for this document
shall be provided by the City. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-2-4: MINI-SUBDIVISION:
A mini-subdivision is a subdivision of three (3) to five (5) lots. All mini-
subdivisions shall conform to the approval process and plat requirements of
this title. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-2-5: APPROVAL PROCESS:
Subdivisions are to be approved utilizing the following process (any
alterations in this process shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission):
   A.   Sketch Plan: Upon completing a sketch plan, applicants may request that
the Planning Commission review all applicable codes and identify any
preliminary issues which are likely to be of concern in evaluating the
subdivision.
   B.   Preliminary Plat: Applicants shall submit to the Zoning Administrator a
completed subdivision application, a preliminary plat, and any other associated
materials deemed necessary by this Code. This information shall be reviewed by
the Planning Commission and a recommendation for action shall be forwarded to
the City Council.
   C.   Final Plat: The City Council shall review the application, proposed
plat, and any recommendations by the Planning Commission. The Council may
approve, approve with stipulations or alterations, or deny any subdivision
plat.
   D.   Final Plat Recordation: The final step in the review and approval
process is the recordation of the final plat of the proposed subdivision in the
Office of the Cache County Recorder. It shall be the responsibility of the
Zoning Administrator to ensure that all stipulations/alterations have been
completed and that the plat meets all applicable codes prior to recordation.
(Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-2-6: PLAT AMENDMENT:
   A.   Changes To Plat: The City Council may consider any proposed vacation,
alteration, or amendment of a recorded subdivision plat based upon the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission in compliance with section
10-9a-608, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended. Any fee owner, as shown on
the last County assessment rolls, of land within the subdivision may, in
writing, petition the Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council to have
the plat, any portion of it, or any road or lot contained in it, vacated,
altered, or amended.
   B.   Minor Amendment: With the written approval of all owners of interest in
a proposed subdivision that are directly affected by an amendment or
alteration, an unrecorded subdivision may have minor modifications made to the
final plat so long as the modifications are not substantial, as determined by
the City Council. The final plat must then contain all necessary signatures and
be recorded in compliance with this title. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-2-7: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   An agreement to adjust lot lines between adjoining properties may be
executed upon the recordation of an appropriate deed if:
      1.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit results from the lot line
adjustment;
      2.   The lot sizes, frontages, and configurations are consistent with
this title and the City zoning ordinance;
      3.   No lot is made to be undevelopable without variances, special
approvals, or other considerations;
      4.   All property owners that are directly affected by the adjustment
consent to the lot line adjustment;
      5.   The lot line adjustment does not result in a remnant piece of land
that did not exist previously;
      6.   The lot line adjustment does not result in the violation of any
applicable zoning district requirements;
      7.   The lot line adjustments do not substantially alter legal lots that
may otherwise need further review of the City Council in the form of a
subdivision amendment.
   B.   The applicants requesting the lot line adjustment shall provide the
Zoning Administrator with the following material:
      1.   A record of survey showing the two (2) parcels or lots identifying
the existing lot line dividing two (2) parcels and the proposed new lot line
after the adjustment including the legal description for each new lot or
parcel.
      2.   A copy of the recorded deeds transferring the property to the
appropriate owner(s). Upon the completion of recording the deeds, each lot or
parcel shall have one boundary description reflecting the legal descriptions on
the survey.
   C.   The Planning Commission shall act as the Land Use Authority for all lot
line adjustments. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
CHAPTER 3
REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Application
11-3-2: Sketch Plan Requirements
11-3-3: Preliminary Subdivision Plat Requirements
11-3-4: Final Subdivision Plat Requirements
11-3-1: APPLICATION:
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall establish guidelines for all
subdivision applications in conformance with this title. The application shall
include all of the information required by staff, the Planning Commission, and
the City Council to make a decision on the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 13-01,
4-16-2013)
11-3-2: SKETCH PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The sketch plan is an informal discussion document only designed to
allow the identification of policies, procedures, standards and other items
that may be considered in the subdivision review and approval processes of
Lewiston City once a subdivision application is received. To achieve these
objectives and to promote the identification of all items necessary for
consideration, the applicant should provide at a minimum, a map, plat, and/or
other scale drawing of the area. The following applicable information may also
be submitted to provide further information regarding the nature and intent of
the subdivision:
      1.   The configuration, size and number of lots in the proposed
development;
      2.   Potential locations of hazards and sensitive lands or other features
which may impose peculiar construction requirements;
      3.   Potential open space;
      4.   The way in which the proposed development will fit into the context
of the surrounding area;
      5.   The present and planned surrounding roads and utilities;
      6.   Access points and limiting of access, if required;
      7.   Existing and proposed trail system;
      8.   The anticipated time schedule for the development;
      9.   Plans and needs for water, sewer, roads, and sanitation disposal;
      10.   The development method that will be used, the total acreage
involved, the number of allowable lots and the number of planned lots;
      11.   Any planned phasing or future development of adjacent land;
      12.   Any other information available or pertinent to the proposed
subdivision or as required by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   B.   A sketch plan does not constitute an application for subdivision
approval, as provided by this title, and is in no way binding on the City or
the applicant. Any discussion that occurs at a sketch plan review meeting shall
not be considered any indication of subdivision approval or disapproval, either
actual or implied. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-3-3: PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
The following information is required for all applications for the subdivision
of land within Lewiston City. The applicant may be required to provide other
information required by the Planning and Zoning Commission, or City Council
necessary to evaluate the merits of the proposed subdivision and compliance
with this title.
   A.   A subdivision application, provided by the Zoning Administrator,
completed and signed by the owner(s), or authorized agent of the owner(s), of
the land parcel(s) proposed to be subdivided.
   B.   A preliminary subdivision plat prepared by a licensed land surveyor in
pen and the sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than one sheet is used
and shall be of such a size as is acceptable for recordation in the Office of
the Cache County Recorder. A minimum of ten (10) paper copies shall be
presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Engineer. The
commission may request additional copies if required. One (1) 24" x 36" copy of
the subdivision plat shall be presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   C.   The preliminary subdivision plat shall show the following:
      1.   The layout or configuration of the proposed subdivision at a scale
of no more than 1 inch (1") = 100 feet (100'), or as recommended by the
Planning and Zoning Commission;
      2.   Located at the top and center of the subdivision plat the proposed
name of the subdivision and the section, township, range, principal median and
County of its location;
      3.   A title block placed on the lower right hand corner of the plat
showing:
         a.   Name and address of owner(s) of record;
         b.   A surveyor's certificate showing the name and registration number
of the licensed land surveyor responsible for making the plat or survey and
certifying to the accuracy of such plat; and
         c.   Date of preparation of the plat and any revision dates;
      4.   Signature blocks prepared, as required and provided by the City, for
the dated signatures of the City Council Chair attested to by the City Clerk/
Recorder, Planning and Zoning Commission Chair, County Surveyor, City Engineer,
and each utility company involved;
      5.   North arrow, graphic and written scale, basis of bearings used;
      6.   Tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed minor subdivision,
showing the total number of lots, and the areas of each lot;
      7.   A vicinity map of the site at a minimum scale of 1" = 2,000 feet;
      8.   Surveyed boundary of the proposed subdivision; accurate in scale,
dimension and bearing, giving the location of and ties to the nearest existing
two (2) government control monuments. This information shall provide data
sufficient to determine readily the location, bearing, and length of all lines
and the location of all proposed monuments. The names of all adjoining property
owners of record shall be shown;
      9.   The legal description of the entire subdivision site boundary;
      10.   The entire subdivision boundary shall include the entire parcel
from which any lot is proposed to be subdivided. A sketch of the prospective
street system of the platted subdivision shall be submitted. The street system
of the part submitted shall be considered in light of existing Master Street
Plans or other Planning Commission studies.
      11.   Identification of known natural features including, but not limited
to, wetlands as identified by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, areas which
would be covered in the event of 100-year floods, all water bodies, flood ways
and drainage ways, slopes exceeding thirty percent (30%), and any other natural
features as required by the Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council for
the entire subdivision site, including a tabulation of the acres in each;
      12.   Identification of known man-made features including, but not
limited to, high voltage power lines, high pressure gas lines, hard surfaced
roads, road easements, road rights-of-way, bridges, culverts and drainage
channels, field drains, existing water and sewer trunk lines, all utility
easements, railroads and railroad easements, irrigation ditches, canals and
canal easements within and adjacent to the subdivision site;
      13.   All monuments erected, corners, and other points established in the
field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners, or
other points are made shall be noted. The legend for metal monuments shall
indicate the kind of metal, the diameter, and length of the monuments;
      14.   The location with name and parcel number and dimensions of all
existing buildings, existing property lines, and fence lines;
      15.   The location of any existing platted lots within or contiguous to
the subdivision site;
      16.   All lots, rights-of-way, and easements created by the subdivision
with their boundary, bearings, lengths, widths, name, number, or purpose shall
be given. The addresses of all lots shall be shown;
      17.   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground
facilities within the tract and to a distance of at least one hundred feet
(100') beyond the tract boundaries, indicating pipe size, grades, manholes, and
exact location;
      18.   A note on the plat stating the minimum required setbacks are for
primary building;
      19.   Location and size of existing and proposed culinary water and sewer
lines and/or the location of all wells proposed, active and abandoned, and
springs used for culinary water and the location of all septic systems and
drain fields, as applicable;
      20.   Layout of proposed power lines, including the source and connection
to the existing power supply;
      21.   As required by the Planning and Zoning Commission located on the
subdivision plat or separate map, the identification of the minimum building
set-back lines for each lot shall be shown;
      22.   An indication of the use for all proposed lots including required
notes identifying agricultural protection areas and other proposed or required
protective and restrictive covenants;
      23.   Endorsement on the plat by every person having a security interest
in the subdivision property that they are subordinating their liens to all
covenants, servitudes and easements imposed on the property;
      24.   Cluster subdivisions containing a parcel for agricultural
production shall label the parcel "Agricultural Parcel" on the recorded
subdivision plat. A signed agreement shall be recorded in the County Recorder's
Office stating that commercial and residential structures are not permitted on
the agricultural parcel;
      25.   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use or set aside for use of property owners in a subdivision,
including, but not limited to, sites to be reserved or dedicated for parks,
playgrounds, schools or other public uses;
      26.   For all subdivisions located in the Agricultural Zone a note on the
subdivision plat provided by Lewiston City stating that all owners are aware
that they shall be subject to the sights, sounds, and smells associated with
agricultural activities, such activities being uses allowed in the Agricultural
Zone;
      27.   Typical street cross section between curb and gutter and sidewalk
and tentative street grades;
      28.   A tentative plan or method by which the subdivider proposes to
handle stormwater drainage for the subdivision;
      29.   When necessary, copies of any agreements with adjacent property
owners relevant to the proposed subdivision shall be presented to the Planning
Commission;
      30.   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
community facilities, industry or other uses exclusive of the single-family
dwelling;
      31.   Location, function, ownership and manner of maintenance of common
open space not otherwise reserved or dedicated for public use;
      32.   Environmental impact assessment if required by the Planning
Commission;
      33.   Other applicable subdivision notes, as required by the Planning and
Zoning Commission or City Council.
   D.   The subdivider's detailed plan for protecting future residents of the
development from such hazards as open ditches, canals or waterways, nonaccess
streets, open reservoirs or bodies of water, railroad rights-of-way and other
such features of a potentially hazardous nature located on, crossing,
contiguous or near to the property being subdivided. The subdivider's plan need
not cover those features which the Planning Commission determines would not be
a hazard to life and/or where the conforming structure designed to protect the
future residents would itself create a hazard to safety of the public. The
foregoing does not relieve the subdivider of the duty to investigate all
possible means of protecting future residents from a potential hazard before a
determination is made that the only conceivable means of protection is
potentially more hazardous than the hazard itself.
   E.   A title report for the property proposed to be subdivided provided by a
title company within thirty (30) days of the date of subdivision application.
   F.   A tax clearance from the Cache County Treasurer indicating that all
taxes, interest and penalties owing for the property have been paid.
   G.   Addresses of all owners of record of real property adjacent to the
parcel of land proposed for subdivision, including the names and addresses of
the holders of any known valid mineral leases.
   H.   Payment of the non-refundable administrative processing fee, and a
refundable subdivision application fee, as established by resolution by the
City Council. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-3-4: FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
The following information is required for all final subdivision applications:
   A.   A subdivision application, as provided by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, completed and signed by the owner(s), or authorized agent of the
owner(s), of the land parcel(s) proposed to be subdivided and possessing a
valid preliminary subdivision application approval.
   B.   A final subdivision plat shall be prepared by a licensed land surveyor,
and conforming to current surveying practice and in a form acceptable to the
Lewiston Zoning Administrator for recordation. The final subdivision plat shall
be presented in ink on a 24-inch by 36-inch reproducible Mylar at the same
scale and contain the same information, except for any changes, additions or
revisions required by the City Council, as shown on the approved preliminary
subdivision plat. All revision dates must be shown as well as the following:
      1.   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, or other restrictions, if
required by the City Council in accordance with this title;
      2.   Endorsement on the plat by every person having a security interest
in the subdivision property that they are subordinating their liens to all
covenants, servitudes and easements imposed on the property;
      3.   The owner's certificate of consent including a legal description of
the subdivision's boundaries and the dedication of public ways or spaces, as
required. This certificate shall be signed, dated, and notarized. The owner's
certificate shall include a reference to any covenants that may be declared and
blanks where the County Recorder may enter the book and page number of their
recording;
      4.   For subdivisions located in the Agricultural Zone, a note on the
final subdivision plat, stating that all owners are aware that they shall be
subject to the sights, sounds, and smells associated with agriculture
activities, such activities being uses allowed in the Agricultural Zone;
      5.   Subdivisions containing a parcel for agricultural production shall
label the parcel "Agricultural Parcel" on the recorded subdivision plat; and
      6.   Other final subdivision plat notes, as required by the City Council.
   C.   Cluster subdivisions containing a parcel for agricultural production
shall be accompanied by a signed agreement which shall be recorded in the
County Recorder's Office stating that commercial and residential structures are
not permitted on the agricultural parcel.
   D.   All of the required signature blocks shall be signed prior to the
recordation of the final plat. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Subdivision Layout
11-4-2: Development In Phases
11-4-3: Local Minimum Standards And Specifications
11-4-4: Lots
11-4-5: Streets
11-4-6: Utilities And Easements
11-4-7: Storm Drainage Requirements
11-4-8: Water System
11-4-9: Sewer System
11-4-10: Design Standards
11-4-11: Completion Of Subdivision Improvements
11-4-12: Improvement Security
11-4-13: Coordination With Service Providers
11-4-1: SUBDIVISION LAYOUT:
   A.   The subdivision layout shall conform to the City General Plan, this
title, and the requirements of the base zoning district as established within
title 10, chapter 6 of this Code.
   B.   Where trees, groves, waterways, scenic points, historic spots or other
City assets and landmarks, as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission,
and/or the City Council, are located within a proposed subdivision, every
practical means shall be provided to preserve these features. The Planning and
Zoning Commission may request recommendations from qualified organizations to
aid in the determination of these features.
   C.   Whenever a tract to be subdivided adjoins or embraces any part of an
existing or proposed street so designated on the transportation element of the
City General Plan, such part of the public way shall be platted and dedicated,
and may be required to be improved by the subdivider in the location and at the
width specified. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-4-2: DEVELOPMENT IN PHASES:
A developer desiring to develop in phases shall gain sketch plan and
preliminary plat approvals of the entire subdivision showing clearly the
individual phases. The preliminary plat must contain sufficient detail for the
engineering review to ascertain that the public improvements for each phase
will perform as required for each phase as well as the full subdivision. Final
plat approval may be gained for each phase independently. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-
2013)
11-4-3: LOCAL MINIMUM STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Standards for design, construction specifications and inspection of street
improvements, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, storm drainage, flood control
facilities, water distribution and sewage disposal facilities shall be prepared
by the City Engineer; and similar standards for fire hydrants by the Fire
Department. All subdividers shall comply with the standards established by such
departments and agencies of the City and County; provided, that such standards
shall be approved by the City Council. These standards, in addition to the
general standards contained in this title, and those established by the State,
shall be used by all subdividers. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-4-4: LOTS:
   A.   All subdivisions shall result in the creation of lots which are
developable and capable of being built upon. A subdivision shall not create
lots which would make improvement impractical due to size, shape, steepness of
terrain, location of watercourses, problems of sewerage or driveway grades, or
other physical conditions.
   B.   All lots or parcels created by the subdivision shall have access to a
dedicated street improved to standards hereinafter required.
      1.   No subdivisions shall be allowed to be developed whose access is not
from a Class C road.
   C.   The minimum area and dimensions of all lots shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning ordinance of Lewiston for the zoning district in
which the subdivision is located.
   D.   The side lines of all lots, so far as possible, shall be at approximate
right angles to the street which the lot faces, or approximately radial to the
center of curvatures, if such street is curved. Side lines of lots shall be
approximately radial to the center of curvature of a cul-de-sac on which the
lot faces. The Planning and Zoning Commission may allow exceptions to this
requirement.
   E.   A lot shall not be divided by an incorporated City or County limit
line. Each such boundary line shall be made a lot line through whatever process
deemed necessary by Lewiston City and the other affected entity.
   F.   Remnants of property shall not be left in the subdivision which does
not conform to lot requirements unless it is designated as a conservation
easement, open space, private utility, or other public purpose and/or meets the
minimum lot size requirements for agricultural use under Utah Code Annotated
title 59, chapter 2, part 5, Farmland Assessment Act.
   G.   Lot numbers shall begin with the number "1" and shall continue
consecutively through the subdivision, with no omissions or duplications; no
block designations shall be used.
   H.   Lots that have been created since May 4, 1970 without the approval of
either the Planning and Zoning Commission or of the City Council, as required
by Lewiston City or State Code at the time of the division, shall be deemed
restricted, and shall not be eligible for conditional use permits, further
subdivision, building permits, or business licenses until the illegal
subdivision has been resolved. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-4-5: STREETS:
   A.   Grades: Grades of streets shall not be in excess of ten percent (10%).
   B.   Pavement: All streets within the City shall be improved with pavement.
   C.   Standards Of Construction: Pavements shall be constructed in accordance
with the requirements of the standards, rules and regulations adopted by the
City Council.
   D.   Urban Streets; Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters on all urban
streets shall be concrete of the standard high-back type, not less than two
feet (2') in overall width, and not less than seven inches (7") thick where the
curb abuts the street pavement. Minimum grades for curb and gutter shall not be
less than one- half percent (1/2%).
   E.   Stormwater Inlets, Catch Basins: Stormwater inlets and catch basins
shall be provided within the roadway improvements at points specified by the
subdivider and approved by the City Engineer.
   F.   Curb Corners: All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than
twenty five feet (25'). Where streets meet at acute angles, the radii shall be
increased.
   G.   Arrangement Of Streets: The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions
shall make provision for the continuation of the existing streets in adjoining
areas and shall provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas insofar as such
continuation or access shall be deemed necessary by the Planning Commission.
   H.   Connection With Existing Streets: New streets must connect with
existing public streets.
   I.   Angle Of Approach: All streets shall approach other streets at an angle
of not less than eighty degrees (80°).
   J.   Curb, Gutter And Sidewalk Installation: The subdivider shall install
curbs, gutters and sidewalks on existing and proposed streets in major
subdivisions and where curb and gutter are existing in the surrounding
neighborhood.
   K.   Street Number Signs: Street number signs, conforming to the design and
specifications and in the number provided by the standards, rules and
regulations of the City, shall be provided by the developer at all street
intersections. Installation shall be made by City departments, to ensure
uniformity, at the expense of the developer.
   L.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs (dead end streets designed to be permanently
closed to through traffic) shall not be longer than four hundred feet (400') to
the beginning of the turnaround. Each cul-de-sac must be terminated by a
turnaround of not less than one hundred twenty feet (120') in diameter,
measured to the property lines. If surface water drainage is toward the
turnaround, due to the grade of the street, necessary catch basins and drainage
easements shall be provided. In cul-de-sacs, curb and gutter and street grades
shall be a minimum of five percent (5%).
   M.   Level Of Grade: Streets shall be leveled, when possible, to a grade of
less than four percent (4%) for a distance of at least one hundred feet (100')
approaching all intersections and at the intersection a grade of three percent
(3%) shall be maximum.
   N.   Changes In Grade: All changes in street grade shall be connected by
vertical curves of a minimum length equivalent to fifteen (15) times the
algebraic difference in the rate of the grade for major streets and secondary
streets and one-half (1/2) of this minimum for all local streets. Vertical
curves are not required where the difference in grade change is less than one
percent (1%).
   O.   Curvature On Centerline: Minimum radii of curvature on the centerline
shall be as follows: major streets, five hundred feet (500'); secondary
streets, three hundred feet (300'); local streets, one hundred feet (100') (or
as approved by the City Engineer).
   P.   Half Streets; Alleys: Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted half
street or alley adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, the other half shall be
platted; however, in most cases, half streets shall be prohibited.
   Q.   Width Of Streets Or Roads: The total width of a street or road right-
of-way within any subdivision shall be a minimum of sixty six feet (66'), with
a minimum of twenty four feet (24') of paved asphalt. The twenty four foot
(24') width of paved asphalt may be increased based on a determination from the
City Engineer. The balance of the street width is to be used for curb, gutter,
sidewalk and a parking strip, or drainage swale, all as required herein,
subject to such modification or amendment, including the requirement of a wider
street or road, when determined to be necessary, by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted as
limiting the power of the Planning Commission to also recommend and the power
of the City Council to also require wider streets or roads outside a
subdivision. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-4-6: UTILITIES AND EASEMENTS:
   A.   All utilities, private or publicly owned, shall be placed underground
unless otherwise approved or specified by the City. This will include, but not
be limited to, telephone, gas, electric power, water, sewer, storm drains, etc.
These underground utilities shall be installed before the surfacing of the
streets and installation of road base, curb and gutter, sidewalks, etc.
   B.   All utilities shall conform to the rules and regulations adopted by the
respective company.
   C.   Utility easements shall be provided within the subdivision as required
for public utility purposes. Easements shall be dedicated along all front,
rear, and side setbacks as deemed necessary by the City Council and utility
providers. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-4-7: STORM DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS:
Written approval of the proposed stormwater drainage plan, or applicable
stormwater management plan shall be obtained from the Lewiston City Engineer.
No new or additional stormwater drainage that results from the development of a
site shall be allowed to flow from any portion of the subdivision site to any
adjacent lots, properties, ditches, canals, or waterways without the prior
written authorization from the affected parties, with a note on the subdivision
plat identifying a proposed and recordable drainage easement, provided by the
adjacent property owner, ditch or canal company. The City Engineer shall
approve the subdivision's stormwater management plan prior to recordation of
the final plat.
   A.   No ditch or canal shall be approved as suitable for the use of storm
drainage water without the written permission of the appropriate canal company
or water user. No ditch or canal shall be used for stormwater unless adequately
improved to handle the expected increase in flow.
   B.   The drainage plan shall be designed to:
      1.   Permit the unimpeded flow of natural watercourses.
      2.   Ensure adequate drainage of all low points.
      3.   Ensure applications of the following regulations regarding
development in designated floodplains:
         a.   Construction of buildings shall not be permitted in a designated
floodway with a return frequency more often than a 100-year storm.
         b.   Building construction may occur in the portion of the designated
floodway where the return frequency is between a 100-year and a maximum
probability storm provided all usable floor space is constructed above the
designated maximum probable flood level.
         c.   Any use of land is prohibited where flooding would create a
public health hazard or problem. This includes shallow wells, uncased deep
walls, sanitary landfills, septic tanks and on lot sewage disposal systems,
water treatment plants, and also sewage disposal systems not completely
protected from inundation.
         d.   Recreational coach or mobile home parks and similar uses shall
not be permitted in any designated floodway.
         e.   No lot one acre or less in area shall include flood lands. All
lots more than one acre shall contain not less than forty thousand (40,000)
square feet of land which is at an elevation at least two feet (2') above the
elevation of the 100-year recurrence interval flood, or, where such data is not
available, five feet (5') above the elevation of the maximum flood of record.
(Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-4-8: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   The design of all water systems, including fire hydrants, shall be
reviewed and approved by the City Engineer.
   B.   The entire system shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
City standards, Utah State Health Department standards, and the current adopted
Fire Code. If there is a conflict between the standards, the most stringent
shall rule. Final approval of the proposed water system shall be subject to
approval by the City Engineer. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-4-9: SEWER SYSTEM:
   A.   The sewer system design and layout shall meet all standards and
specifications of Utah State Department of Health in addition to City
standards.
   B.   Subdivision applications proposing individual onsite wastewater
disposal systems shall include feasibility reports, meeting the requirements of
the Bear River Health Department or Utah Department of Environmental Quality,
as applicable, for each new parcel or lot proposed.
   C.   As with the water system, the subdivider shall be responsible for
extending and connecting to the nearest existing sewer main that is adequate to
handle the subdivision flows. Final line sizes and final approval shall also be
subject to approval by the City Engineer. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-4-10: DESIGN STANDARDS:
The design of the preliminary and final plats of the subdivision in relation to
streets, blocks, lots, open spaces and other design factors shall be in harmony
with design standards recommended by the Planning Commission and by other
departments and agencies of the City government. All proposed roads shall be
consistent with the current grid/block pattern of north-south and east-west
oriented roads established in Lewiston. An exception may only be granted if the
grid pattern cannot be maintained due to steep slopes, waterways, wetlands, or
other natural features. Design standards shall be approved by the City Council
and shall include provisions as follows:
   A.   Blocks shall not exceed one thousand six hundred fifty feet (1,650') in
length from centerline to centerline of roads.
   B.   Blocks shall be wide enough to adequately accommodate two (2) tiers of
lots.
   C.   Dedicated walkways through the block may be required where access is
necessary to a point designated by the Planning Commission. Such walkways shall
be a minimum of six feet (6') in width, but may be required to be wider where
determined necessary by the Planning Commission. The subdivider shall surface
the full width of the walkway with a concrete surface, install a chainlink
fence or its equal at least four feet (4') high on each side and the full
length of each walkway and provide, in accordance with the standards, rules and
regulations, barriers at each walkway entrance to prevent the use of the
walkway by any motor vehicle or by any other nonmotorized vehicle wider than
four feet (4').
   D.   Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be designated
specifically for such purposes with adequate space set aside for off street
parking and delivery facilities.
   E.   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide
satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings, and be properly related to
topography, to the character of surrounding development and the existing
requirements.
   F.   All lots shown on the preliminary and final plats must conform to the
minimum requirements of the zoning title for the zone or proposed zone in which
the subdivision is located and to the minimum requirements of the County Board
of Health or other applicable agencies if not connected to City sewer and/or
water systems.
   G.   Each lot shall abut on a publicly dedicated street shown on the
subdivision plat or on an existing publicly dedicated street, which is more
than twenty six feet (26') wide. Double frontage lots shall be prohibited
except where unusual conditions make other designs undesirable.
   H.   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles, or radial to
the street lines.
   I.   In general, all remnants of lots below minimum size must be added to
adjacent lots, rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   J.   Protection strips are prohibited.
   K.   Subdivisions for nonagricultural purposes in the Agricultural Zone may
only be created on Class C roads existing at the time the subdivision is
proposed. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-4-11: COMPLETION OF SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS:
No subdivision final plat map or deed shall be recorded until all of the
stipulations for approval have been met and all required improvements have been
completed to the standards and specifications established by the City or other
codes, laws, or regulations. In addition the following minimum requirements
apply and may be added to by the Planning and Zoning Commission, or City
Council:
   A.   Construction within the subdivision shall conform to all Federal and
State regulations.
   B.   Construction drawings and construction within the subdivision shall
conform to the Lewiston City standards and specifications. This document shall
be available in the Office of the Zoning Administrator.
   C.   Permits must be obtained for construction of the infrastructure
facilities within the subdivision.
   D.   There shall be a schedule of fees for all services required for the
review of infrastructure in the Office of the Zoning Administrator. All fees
within the schedule of fees shall be passed by a resolution of the City
Council.
   E.   Any work which begins prior to the issuance of a permit may be assessed
an administrative penalty equal to two hundred percent (200%) of the cost of
any fees and permits plus one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   F.   A preconstruction conference with the Public Works Director may be
required not less than forty eight (48) hours prior to the commencement of
construction activities.
   G.   The contractor shall notify the Zoning Administrator not less than
forty eight (48) hours prior to the commencement of construction.
   H.   Within thirty (30) days of the completion of improvements, the
subdivider shall submit "as built" drawings of subdivision improvements
prepared by or under the supervision of a professional licensed to prepare such
work in the State of Utah. Failure to submit such drawings shall result in a
hold being placed on issuance of any building permits. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-4-12: IMPROVEMENT SECURITY:
When in the judgment of the Planning and Zoning Commission, it is not feasible
to complete requirements or conditions imposed by statute or ordinance prior to
the issuance of a permit, use, or occupancy, the improvement security may be
accepted pursuant to this section to guarantee completion of the requirements
or conditions.
   A.   Acceptance Of Security: Improvement security may be accepted by the
City in relation to the following requirements or conditions:
      1.   Landscaping, parking, parking lot lighting, signage, structural
amenities;
      2.   Right-of-way improvements, street improvements, curb, gutter,
sidewalk, improvements related to driveways;
      3.   Electrical power;
      4.   Sewer, water, utilities; or
      5.   All other improvements or deferrals.
   B.   Types Of Security: With the exception of improvements required under
provisions of the City zoning ordinance, the following types of surety may be
accepted:
      1.   Certificate of deposit, cash, cashier's check, or savings account in
favor of Lewiston City in the amount of not less than one hundred twenty five
percent (125%) of the estimated cost of improvements;
      2.   Irrevocable letter of credit issued by a Federally insured financial
institution with the necessary period of time as determined by staff in the
amount of not less than one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated
cost of improvements;
      3.   Escrow, drawdown, or performance account to which the County is a
signatory and the escrow agent guarantees payment in the amount of not less
than one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of
improvements;
      4.   Performance bond issued by a financial institution, insurance
company, or surety company with a Moody's or Standard & Poor's investment grade
bond rating in the amount of not less than one hundred twenty five percent
(125%) of the estimated costs of improvements.
   C.   Estimating The Cost Of Improvements:
      1.   The permit holder shall present the City with a firm construction
bid for the improvements that shall be valid for a reasonable period of time
from the date of the bid.
      2.   The bid shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator or other
appropriate City official prior to acceptance of the estimated cost.
      3.   If the City accepts the bid amount, the permit holder may use that
amount for securing and delivering surety to the City.
If the City does not accept the bid amount, the permit holder shall obtain
three (3) firm bids for the work to be secured with prices valid for at least
six (6) months. The City shall accept the average of the three (3) bids as the
base amount for improvement security. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
11-4-13: COORDINATION WITH SERVICE PROVIDERS:
The following information is required to be presented as part of a subdivision
application, necessary to promote coordination with other service providers:
   A.   Lewiston City fully supports access management along all State roads
and shall work with all applicants of subdivisions through the Cache Access
Management Policy to work with the Utah Department of Transportation to
coordinate access, capacity, and safety issues.
   B.   If the proposed subdivision is located within the boundaries of an
irrigation company or canal company, or easements of any canals or irrigation
ditches exist on the proposed subdivision site, a letter from the governing
board of the applicable canal or irrigation company, acknowledging the proposed
subdivision. This letter may identify any potential impacts resulting from the
proposed subdivision. (Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Findings Of Fact
12-1-2: Statement Of Purpose
12-1-3: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-4: Definitions
12-1-5: General Provisions
12-1-6: Administration
12-1-7: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-8: Penalties For Noncompliance
12-1-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The flood hazard areas of Lewiston City are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions in
floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages. (Ord. 11-01, 4-19-2011)
12-1-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 11-01, 4-19-2011)
12-1-3: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damages at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 11-01, 4-19-2011)
12-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO Zone
on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance
or greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to
three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path
of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD: Is the land within a
community subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any
given year. The area may be designated at Zone A on the FHBM. After detailed
ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the flood
insurance rate map, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE,
A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, or V1-30, VE, or V. For
purposes of these regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is
synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of special hazard".
BASE FLOOD: Means the flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): Is the water surface elevation of the one percent
(1%) annual chance of flood. The height in relation to mean sea level expected
to be reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the
floodplains of coastal and riverine areas.
BASEMENT: Means any area of the building having its floor sub- grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
BREAKAWAY WALL: Means any man-made change in improved and unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or
storage of equipment or materials.
BUILDING: See definition of structure.
EROSIONS: Means the process of the gradual wearing away of land masses. This
peril is not per se covered under the program.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: Means for the purposes of determining rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of
the FIRM or before January 1, 1975 for FIRMs effective before that date.
"Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Means a manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXISTING STRUCTURES: See definition of existing construction.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION: Means a determination by the Administrator of
the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that
has one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): Means an official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and
the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY OR FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: Means an examination,
evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation and
determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: Means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   C.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
defined in subsection B of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of
water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually
high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or
by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal
surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in
flooding as defined in subsection A of this definition.
FLOOD PROOFING: Means any combination of structural and non- structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: Means the operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plan, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Means zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, Building Codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
State or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Means any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see definition of flood or flooding).
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): Means the channel of a river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface
elevation more than a designated height.
FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES: Means the lines marking the limits of floodways on
Federal, State and local floodplain maps.
FREEBOARD: Means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood
level for purposes of floodplain management. "Freeboard" tends to compensate
for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater
than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions,
such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: Means a use which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The
term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for
the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship
repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: Means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Means any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior or;
      2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: Means a man-made structure; usually an earthen embankment designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: Means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: Means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: Means a structure transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Means a parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MAP: Means the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the agency.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: Means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program,
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which
base flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which
the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Means a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Means a vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: See definition of "area of special flood hazard".
SPECIAL HAZARD AREA: Means an area having special flood, mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow), or flood-related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as
Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, A99, AH, VO,
V1-30, VE, M, or E.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: Means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home. Structure for insurance purposes means:
   A.   A building with two (2) or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured
roof, that is affixed to a permanent site;
   B.   A manufactured home ("a manufactured home", also known as a mobile
home, is a structure built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in 1
or more sections, and affixed to a permanent foundation); or
   C.   A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a
permanent foundation, that is regulated under the community's floodplain
management and building ordinances or laws.
For the latter purpose, "structure" does not mean a recreational vehicle or a
park trailer or other similar vehicle, except as described in subsection C of
this definition, or a gas or liquid storage tank.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of
construction" of the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: Is a grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
VIOLATION: Means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: Means the height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 11-01, 4-19-2011)
12-1-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of Lewiston City.
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for
Cache County", dated May, 24, 2011, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
and Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any revisions thereto are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. Lewiston
City automatically adopts all FEMA effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps and all
FEMA effective Flood Insurance Studies.
   C.   Establishment Of Development Permit: Development permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered,
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this title and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the Governing Body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State Statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by man-
made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas
of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of Lewiston City or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder. (Ord. 11-01, 4-19-2011)
12-1-6: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator: The Lewiston City Zoning
Administrator is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to administer
and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of
44 CFR (National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: Duties and
responsibilities shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency which is State Water Engineer, prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with subsection 12-1-5B of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall
obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and
floodway data available from a Federal, State or other source in order to
administer the provisions for flood hazard reduction.
      9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
   C.   Permit Procedures: Application for a development permit shall be
presented to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection B1 of this section.
Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain Administrator
shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the following
relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan for
that area.
   D.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   The Appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      2.   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      3.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      4.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and the State Office of Emergency Management upon issuing a
variance.
      5.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection C2 of this
section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      6.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deem necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
      7.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      8.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      9.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
         a.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         b.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice
that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
      10.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
         a.   The criteria outlined in subsections D1 through D8 of this
section are met, and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 11-01, 4-19-2011)
12-1-7: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
      7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in: 1) subsection 12-1-5B
of this chapter, 2) subsection 12-1-6B8 of this chapter, or 3) subsection C of
this section, the following provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement), elevated one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this subsection as
proposed in subsection 12-1-6C of this chapter, is satisfied.
      2.   Non-Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated one foot (1')
above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
      3.   Manufactured Homes: Require that all manufactured homes to be placed
within Zone A on a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods
and practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this
requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable State and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
   C.   Standards For Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
11-1-1,
11-1-2, and
11-1-3 of this Code.
      2.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of subsection 12-1-5C of this chapter; and the provisions
of this section.
      3.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions which are greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to
located in special flood hazard areas.
      4.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 11-01, 4-19-2011)
12-1-8: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 11-01, 4-19-2011)
