CITY CODE
of
LOGAN, UTAH
Code current through:
Ord. 25-02, passed 3-18-2025
 
 
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Logan, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 25-02, passed March 18, 2025. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 25-13
 
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING SECTION 12.24.050 OF THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL CODE CAMPING ON
PUBLIC PROPERTY
 
WHEREAS, the state legislature has granted general welfare power to the City
Council, independent, apart from, and in addition to, its specific grants of
legislative authority, which enables the City of Logan to pass ordinances as
are necessary and proper to provide for the safety and preserve the health,
promote the prosperity, improve the peace and good order, comfort, and
convenience of the City and its inhabitants, and for the protection of property
and the City; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the repeal and enactment of the
following ordinances are in the City’s best interest.
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN,
UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:
 
SECTION 1. Section 12.24.050, “PROHIBITED CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY” is hereby
enacted as follows: 
 
A.   It is unlawful for any person to camp, lodge, or pitch a tent, fly, lean
to, tarpaulin, or any other type of camping equipment or personal belongings on
public grounds, as defined in subsection B of this section, upon any portion of
a street, road or right of way, or in any park, playground or publicly owned
property. It is unlawful for any person using or benefiting from any of the
foregoing items of camping equipment or personal belongings to fail to remove
the same for more than thirty (30) minutes after being requested to do so by
any City official, officer or employee.
B. For the purpose of this section, the term “public grounds” means any real
property owned in whole or in part by the United States of America and its
agencies, the State of Utah, or any of its political subdivisions, including
the City of Logan, upon which no camping has been authorized by that entity.
C.    The mayor, in his/her discretion, may issue a temporary permit
authorizing camping in connection with an approved special event that is in the
public interest and does not constitute a public nuisance or threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
D. Unless otherwise stated, any person violating any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and shall be punished within the
confines of that class as prescribed by laws. Each day a violation continues
shall constitute as a separate offense.
SECTION 2: Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon
publication.
   ADOPTED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL THIS__2nd ____ DAY OF
___September___________ 2025, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:
 
Anderson, Amy Z.     ( ) Aye ( ) Nay ( ) Abstained ( ) Excused
Anderson, Mark A.    ( ) Aye ( ) Nay ( ) Abstained ( ) Excused
Johnson, Mike        ( ) Aye ( ) Nay ( ) Abstained ( ) Excused
López, Ernesto      ( ) Aye ( ) Nay ( ) Abstained ( ) Excused
Simmonds, Jeannie F. ( ) Aye ( ) Nay ( ) Abstained ( ) Excused
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
_____________________________
/s/ Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair
 
 
_________________________________
ATTEST:
/s/ Teresa Harris, City Recorder
 
PRESENTATION TO MAYOR
   The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the
Mayor for approval or disapproval this _______ day of ____________, 2025.   
                  
                  ______________________________
                  /s/ Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair
 
MAYOR’S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL
   The foregoing ordinance is hereby approved this _______ day of ____________,
2025
 
                  ___________________________________
                  /s/ Holly H. Daines, Mayor
 
 
 
 
TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1.01
CODE ADOPTION
SECTION:
1.01.010: Adoption
1.01.020: Title; Citation; Reference
1.01.030: Codification Authority
1.01.040: Ordinances Passed Prior To Code Adoption
1.01.050: Reference Applies To All Amendments
1.01.060: Title, Chapter And Section Headings
1.01.070: Reference To Specific Ordinances
1.01.080: Effect Of Code On Past Actions And Obligations
1.01.090: Effective Date
1.01.100: Constitutionality
1.01.010: ADOPTION:
Pursuant to the provisions of Utah municipal code, there is adopted the "Logan
municipal code". (Ord. 14-75, 2014)
1.01.020: TITLE; CITATION; REFERENCE:
This code shall be known as the LOGAN MUNICIPAL CODE and it shall be sufficient
to refer to said code as the "Logan municipal code" in any prosecution for the
violation of any provision thereof or in any proceeding at law or equity. It
shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending, correcting
or repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an addition to, amendment
to, correction or repeal of the "Logan municipal code". Further reference may
be had to the titles, chapters, sections and subsections of the "Logan
municipal code" and such references shall apply to that numbered title,
chapter, section and subsection as it appears in this code. (Ord. 89-25 § 2,
1989)
1.01.030: CODIFICATION AUTHORITY:
This code consists of all the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of
the administrative ordinances of the city of Logan, Utah, codified pursuant to
the provisions of Utah municipal code. (Ord. 14-75, 2014)
1.01.040: ORDINANCES PASSED PRIOR TO CODE ADOPTION:
The last ordinance included in the initial code is ordinance 88-7, passed
September 1, 1988. The following ordinances, passed subsequent to ordinance 88-
7, but prior to the adoption of this code, are adopted and made a part of this
code: ordinances 88-37, 89-11 and 89-13. (Ord. 89-25 § 4, 1989)
1.01.050: REFERENCE APPLIES TO ALL AMENDMENTS:
Whenever a reference is made to this code as the "Logan municipal code" or to
any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the city of Logan, Utah, the
reference shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions theretofore,
now or hereafter made. (Ord. 89-25 § 5, 1989)
1.01.060: TITLE, CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS:
Title, chapter and section headings contained in this code shall not be deemed
to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent
of the provisions of any title, chapter or section hereof. (Ord. 89-25 § 6,
1989)
1.01.070: REFERENCE TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record
which refer to, or are otherwise connected with ordinances which are therein
specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included within
this code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding
provisions contained within this code. (Ord. 89-25 § 7, 1989)
1.01.080: EFFECT OF CODE ON PAST ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS:
Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal or amendment hereby of any
ordinance or part or portion of any ordinance of the city shall in any manner
affect the prosecution for violations of ordinances, which violations were
committed prior to the effective date hereof, nor be construed as a waiver of
any license, fee or penalty at said effective date due and unpaid under such
ordinances, nor be construed as affecting any of the provisions of such
ordinances relating to the collection of any such license, fee or penalty, or
the penal provisions applicable to any violation thereof, nor to affect the
validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu thereof required to be posted,
filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance and all rights and obligations
thereunder appertaining shall continue in full force and effect. (Ord. 89-25 §
8, 1989)
1.01.090: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This code shall become effective on the date the ordinance adopting this code
as the "Logan municipal code" shall become effective. (Ord. 89-25 § 9, 1989)
1.01.100: CONSTITUTIONALITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this code. The council declares that
it would have passed this code, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause
and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared invalid or
unconstitutional, and if for any reason this code should be declared invalid or
unconstitutional, the original ordinance or ordinances shall be in full force
and effect. (Ord. 89-25 § 10, 1989)
CHAPTER 1.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1.04.010: Construction
1.04.020: Definitions
1.04.030: Gender And Number
1.04.040: Computing Time
1.04.050: References
1.04.060: Conflicting Provisions
1.04.010: CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   In the construction of this code and of any ordinance hereafter
enacted, the rules set out in the following sections shall apply unless such
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of this code.
   B.   All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and
approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others
as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be
construed according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning. When a word is
defined in one section of a chapter, that definition shall apply to that word
when it is used in any other section in the same chapter, unless that
definition is clearly out of context. (Prior code §§ 1-1-4, 1-1-5)
1.04.020: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases whenever used in this code shall be construed
as defined in this section unless a different meaning is specifically defined
and more particularly directed to the use of such words and phrases:
CITY: City of Logan.
COUNCIL: Logan City municipal council.
COUNTY: Cache County.
PERSON: Means and includes individuals, firms, corporations, partnerships and
every type of association.
STATE: State of Utah.
STREET: Means and includes avenues, alleys, courts, sidewalks and other public
thoroughfares including the entire width from property line to property line.
TENSES: Any verb in the present tense includes the future. (Prior code §§ 1-1-
7, 1-1-8, 1-1-12 – 1-1-16)
1.04.030: GENDER AND NUMBER:
   A.   The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the feminine shall
include the masculine.
   B.   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the
singular. (Prior code § 1-1-6)
1.04.040: COMPUTING TIME:
The time within which an act is to be done when expressed in days shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the
last day be Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be excluded; and when
any such time is expressed in hours the whole of Saturday, Sunday or any legal
holiday from midnight to midnight shall be excluded. (Prior code § 1-1-9)
1.04.050: REFERENCES:
All references to titles, chapters and sections are to the titles, chapters and
sections of this code unless otherwise indicated. (Prior code § 1-1-10)
1.04.060: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
If the provisions of different chapters of this code conflict with or
contravene each other, the provisions of each chapter shall prevail as to all
matters and questions growing out of the subject matter of such chapter. A
particular provision shall prevail over a general provision covering the same
subject matter. (Prior code § 1-1-11)
CHAPTER 1.08
CITY BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
1.08.010: Recording; Updating
1.08.010: RECORDING; UPDATING:
It shall be the duty of the mayor to have recorded in the recorder's office a
plat or map describing the correct boundaries of the city. The map shall be
updated at least annually provided any changes in the city boundaries have
occurred. (1989 Code: prior code § 1-2-1)
CHAPTER 1.12
CITY SEAL
SECTION:
1.12.010: Description
1.12.020: City Name
1.12.010: DESCRIPTION:
The seal provided and used by the city, before the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, is described as follows: One and one-half
(11/2) to one and three-fourths inches (13/4") in diameter, the impression of
which represents an eagle perched on a beehive and the inscription "Corporate
Seal of Logan City," and two (2) stars in the margin, is declared to have been,
that it is now, and hereafter shall be the corporate seal of the city. (Prior
code § 1-4-1)
1.12.020: CITY NAME:
The official name of the city shall hereafter be styled as "the city of Logan."
(Prior code § 1-4-2)
CHAPTER 1.16
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1.16.010: Violation; Class B Misdemeanor
1.16.020: Violation; Misdemeanor
1.16.030: Continuing Violation
1.16.040: Liability; Officer, Agent Or Servant Of Corporation
1.16.050: Accessories
1.16.060: Prisoner Labor
1.16.010: VIOLATION; CLASS B MISDEMEANOR:
All violations of this municipal code for which no lesser penalties are
provided, are classified as class B misdemeanors, punishable by a fine not to
exceed the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment in the
county jail not to exceed six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(1989 Code)
1.16.020: VIOLATION; MISDEMEANOR:
Whenever any act is prohibited or made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor by this code, then the violation of
any such provision of this code by any person shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(1989 Code)
1.16.030: CONTINUING VIOLATION:
Every day any violation of any municipal ordinance continues shall constitute a
separate offense. (1989 Code)
1.16.040: LIABILITY; OFFICER, AGENT OR SERVANT OF CORPORATION:
Whenever an officer, agent or servant of the corporation acting within the
scope of his office or employment shall violate any ordinance, the guilty
knowledge, intent or malice, if any, of such officer, agent or servant shall be
imputed to the corporation and the corporation and its officer, agent or
servant as the case may be, shall be jointly and severally liable to
prosecution of the misdemeanor. (1989 Code)
1.16.050: ACCESSORIES:
When the provisions of any ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of any
act, not only the person actually doing the prohibited thing or omitting the
direct act, but also all persons aiding or abetting therein shall be guilty of
the offense described as principals and shall be subject to the penalty
prescribed for the offense. (1989 Code)
1.16.060: PRISONER LABOR:
Any person committed to the county jail or other place of incarceration as a
punishment or in default of the payment of a fine, or fine and costs, shall be
required to work for the city at such labor as the prisoner's strength will
permit not exceeding eight (8) hours in each working day. Any judgment that the
defendant pay a fine or a fine and costs may also direct that the defendant be
imprisoned until the amount thereof is satisfied, which cannot exceed one day
for each two dollars ($2.00) of such amount. (1989 Code: prior code § 1-1-23)
TITLE 2
ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL
CHAPTER 2.02
DEPARTMENTS FOR CITY GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
Article I. Branches Generally
2.02.010: Designated
2.02.020: Branches Of City Government; Designated
2.02.030: Administrative Branch; Departments
Article II. Executive Branch; Divisions
2.02.040: Department Of Finance
2.02.045: Department Of Treasurer
2.02.050: Department Of Public Works
2.02.060: Department Of Administration
2.02.070: Department Of Parks And Recreation
2.02.080: Parks And Recreation Advisory Board
Article III. Executive Branch; Functions, Powers And Duties
2.02.090: Generally
2.02.100: Department Of Police; Police Chief
2.02.110: Department Of Fire; Fire Chief
2.02.120: Department Of Parks And Recreation; Director
2.02.130: Department Of Environmental Health And Solid Waste Management;
Director
2.02.140: Department Of Finance; Director
2.02.150: Department Of Administration; Director
2.02.160: Department Of Public Works; Director
2.02.170: Department Of Library; Board Of Directors
2.02.180: Department Of Power; Director
2.02.190: Department Of Finance; Generally
2.02.200: Department Of Finance; Purchasing And Stores Division; Manager
2.02.220: Department Of Finance; Accounting Division; Manager
2.02.225: Department Of Treasurer; Director
2.02.227: Department Of Treasurer; Utility Billing And Collections Division
2.02.230: Department Of Public Works; Generally
2.02.240: Department Of Public Works; Property And Building Management; Manager
2.02.250: Department Of Public Works; Garage And Motor Pool Division; Manager
2.02.260: Department Of Public Works; Water And Sewer Division; Manager
2.02.280: Department Of Public Works; Streets Division; Manager
2.02.290: Department Of Public Works; Engineering Division; Manager
2.02.295: Department Of Public Works; Building Inspection Division; Manager
2.02.300: Department Of Administration; Generally
2.02.310: Department Of Administration; Personnel Division; Manager
2.02.320: Department Of Administration; Community Development Division; Manager
2.02.330: Department Of Administration; City Recorder
2.02.340: Department Of Administration; Data Processing Division
2.02.345: Department Of Administration; Safety Division
2.02.350: Staff Officers; Generally
2.02.360: City Attorney
2.02.370: City Budget Officer
Article IV. Legislative Branch
2.02.380: Supplying Information To The Municipal Council And Individual Council
Members
2.02.390: Council; Regular Meetings
2.02.400: Council; Special Meetings
2.02.410: Mayor; Powers And Duties
2.02.420: Budget Adoption
ARTICLE I. BRANCHES GENERALLY
2.02.010: DESIGNATED:
The city government shall be divided into three (3) main branches:
   A.   Judicial;
   B.   Legislative;
   C.   Executive. (Prior code § 2-1-1)
2.02.020: BRANCHES OF CITY GOVERNMENT; DESIGNATED:
   A.   The Judicial Branch: The judicial branch shall consist of the city
judge, the city judge's clerks and staff.
   B.   The Legislative Branch: The legislative branch shall consist of the
municipal council with staff assistance to be furnished by the executive branch
through the chief executive officer.
   C.   The Executive Branch: The executive branch of government headed by the
mayor as the chief executive officer is divided into two (2) administrative
levels, the upper level being designated "department" and the lower level being
designated "division" within a department. The heads of departments shall be
known as "department heads" and the division managers shall be equivalent to
"superintendents" as that word is used in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-
1105. (Prior code §§ 2-1-2, 2-1-3, 2-1-4(a))
2.02.030: ADMINISTRATIVE BRANCH; DEPARTMENTS:
The departments of the administrative branch of government are designated as
follows:
   A.   Department of police;
   B.   Department of fire;
   C.   Department of parks and recreation;
   D.   Department of environmental health and solid waste management;
   E.   Department of administration;
   F.   Department of public works;
   G.   Department of library;
   H.   Department of power;
   I.   Department of finance;
   J.   Department of treasurer. (Ord. 91-22 § 6, 1991: prior code § 2-1-2(a))
ARTICLE II. EXECUTIVE BRANCH; DIVISIONS
2.02.040: DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE:
There shall be the following divisions within and under the department of
finance:
   A.   Purchasing and stores division;
   B.   Accounting division. (Ord. 91-22 § 1, 1991: Ord. 90-43 § 1, 1990: prior
code § 2-1-2(b))
2.02.045: DEPARTMENT OF TREASURER:
There shall be the following division within and under the department of
treasurer:
   A.   Utility billing and collections division. (Ord. 91-22 § 7, 1991)
2.02.050: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS:
There shall be the following divisions within and under the department of
public works:
   A.   Property and building management division;
   B.   Garage and motor pool division;
   C.   Water and sewer division;
   D.   Street division;
   E.   Engineering division;
   F.   Building inspection division. (Ord. 90-31 § 1, 1990: Ord. 89-61 § 3,
1989: prior code § 2-1-2(c))
2.02.060: DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION:
There shall be the following divisions within and under the department of
administration:
   A.   Personnel division;
   B.   Planning and community development;
   C.   City recorder;
   D.   Data processing;
   E.   Safety division. (Ord. 91-22 § 2, 1991: Ord. 90-43 § 2, 1990: Ord. 89-
61 § 1, 1989: prior code § 2-1-2(d))
2.02.070: DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION:
There shall be the following divisions within the department of parks and
recreation:
   A.   The parks division;
   B.   Recreation division;
   C.   Cemetery division;
   D.   Zoo division. (Prior code § 2-1-2(dd))
2.02.080: PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD:
A parks and recreation advisory board, consisting of seven (7) members is
created. The members of the board shall be appointed by the mayor with the
advice and consent of the council. The composition of the board and its duties
shall consist of the following:
   A.   One position to be recommended by the city board of education.
   B.   Board members shall be appointed for staggered three (3) year terms.
   C.   The board shall organize themselves with a chairman and vice chairman.
The board shall be provided with a secretary by the administration. The board
shall meet quarterly, or more often at the call of the chairman or a majority
of the board members or the mayor.
   D.   The board shall have the duty of assessing the broad recreational needs
of the community and to advise administration in carrying out the functions,
duties and responsibilities of the administration as set forth in section
2.02.120 of this chapter. The board shall advise the administration in the
allocation of funds under the budgetary process, and in general advise the
administration and the municipal council in setting up priorities in the parks
and recreation department. (Ord. 02-53 § 1, 2002: prior code § 2-1-2(ddd))
ARTICLE III. EXECUTIVE BRANCH; FUNCTIONS, POWERS AND DUTIES
2.02.090: GENERALLY:
The general functions, powers and duties of each department and director are as
follows in this article. (Prior code § 2-1-2(f))
2.02.100: DEPARTMENT OF POLICE; POLICE CHIEF:
   A.   The function of the department of police is to preserve the peace and
good order of the city, to detect and bring all violators of state and city law
to justice, to prevent crime and protect life and property and to perform all
functions as required by law.
   B.   It is the duty and function of the chief of police to direct and
control the activities of the police department and to perform all other
functions and duties as required by law. (Prior code § 2-1-2(f)(1))
2.02.110: DEPARTMENT OF FIRE; FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   The general function of the fire department is to prevent loss of life
and property by fire by enforcing fire prevention laws and regulations, and by
extinguishing fires and to perform all other functions and duties as required
by law.
   B.   It is the duty of the fire chief to control and direct the activities
of the fire department and to see to the proper education and training of its
personnel, together with the proper maintenance of all fire department
equipment and to perform all other functions and duties as required by law.
(Prior code § 2-1-2(f)(2))
2.02.120: DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION; DIRECTOR:
The department of parks and recreation and the division thereunder shall have
the following functions, duties and responsibilities:
   A.   1.   The Division of Recreation shall have the function of assessing
the current recreational needs of the City and of organizing and offering a
broad range of recreational and leisure time programs for the citizens of
Logan. In carrying out this function, it has the responsibility to coordinate
programming efforts with other existing agencies or entities in the community.
It shall perform such other functions required by law.
      2.   The Manager of the Recreation Division has the function and duty to
assess, organize and supervise the recreational and leisure time programs of
the City.
   B.   1.   The Division of Parks shall have the general function of
maintaining and improving the parks and to supervise the planning and
maintaining of trees and other plants on City properties, including alongside
streets.
      2.   The Manager of the Division of Parks shall be in charge of improving
and maintaining all City parks, and all other City property assigned to his or
her care.
   C.   1. The Division of Cemetery shall have the general function to provide
the public with an adequate cemetery, properly managed and maintained,
including the proper division and organization of the cemetery into lots and
spaces and to sell lots, collect fees, manage and supervise burials and
placement of headstones and maintenance of the cemetery.
      2.   The cemetery shall be supervised by a sexton, who shall be
responsible for the daily operation of the cemetery.
   D.   The curator of the zoo shall be the Manager of the Zoo Division and
shall have the general function of maintaining and improving the Willow Park
Zoo and caring for and maintaining the birds and animals therein. (Prior Code §
2-1-2(f)(3))
2.02.130: DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT;
DIRECTOR:
   A.   The general function of the Department of Environmental Health and
Solid Waste Management is to perform all functions of the City with respect to
health and sanitation. The department has control of the proper operation of
the City's sewage lagoon and solid waste disposal systems. It shall perform all
other functions as required by law.
   B.   The Director of the Department of Environmental Health and Solid Waste
Management shall direct and control the sewer lagoon system and the solid waste
disposal activities of the City. The Director of the Department of
Environmental Health and Solid Waste Management shall conduct inspections and
tests where desirable or necessary. The Director shall perform all other
functions as required by law. (Prior Code § 2-1-2(f)(4))
2.02.140: DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE; DIRECTOR:
   A.   The general function of the Department of Finance is to provide general
administrative services in support of all other departments, divisions and
staff officers of the City, and to supervise the Managers of the Divisions of
Purchasing and Stores, Treasurer, Utilities Billing, Accounting and Electronic
Processing; and to provide the Mayor with information and advice regarding the
activities of those divisions and to coordinate their functions and activities.
It shall perform all other functions as required by law.
   B.   The Director of the Department of Finance shall supervise the managers
of all divisions within the department. The Director of the Department of
Finance shall also perform the functions and duties of the office of the City
auditor as provided by Utah law. The Director may not assume the duties of City
Treasurer or the Financial Officer.
   C.   The Director of the Department of Finance shall be appointed and
removed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of Council. (Ord. 18-01, 2018)
2.02.150: DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION; DIRECTOR:
   A.   The general functions of the Department of Administration are to
provide general administrative services in support of other departments,
divisions and staff officers of the City as pertaining to the services provided
by the divisions within the department and to render general administrative
assistance. It shall supervise and direct the Divisions of Community
Development and Personnel and the City Recorder. It shall perform all other
functions required by law.
   B.   The Director of the Department of Administration shall supervise the
managers of the divisions and the officers within her or his department. The
Director shall also act as Administrative Assistant to the mayor and perform
all other duties required by law. (Prior code § 2-1-2(f)(6))
2.02.160: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS; DIRECTOR:
   A.   The general functions of the department of public works are to
supervise and direct the managers and the division of property and building
management, motor pool division, the water and sewer division, the streets
division and the building inspection division. It performs all other functions
as required by law.
   B.   The director of the department of public works supervises the managers
of the divisions set forth in subsection A of this section. The director
administers the design and construction of all public projects by programming
the cooperative efforts of the needed departments and divisions of the city.
The director performs all other functions and duties as required by law. (Ord.
90-31 § 2, 1990: prior code § 2-1-2(f)(7))
2.02.170: DEPARTMENT OF LIBRARY; BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   The library department shall operate, maintain and care for the city
library and perform any other functions required by law.
   B.   The city library board of directors shall supervise the operation,
maintenance and care of the library including the adoption of rules and
regulations not inconsistent with law for the governing of the library, shall
appoint the city librarian and perform such other functions and duties required
by law. (Prior code § 2-1-2(f)(9))
2.02.180: DEPARTMENT OF POWER; DIRECTOR:
   A.   The general function of the department of power is to furnish adequate
electrical energy to all those needing the same and located within the city. It
shall perform all other functions required by law.
   B.   The director of the department of power directs and supervises the
operation of the city's diesel power plant, its hydroelectric plant and the
transmission and distribution of all electricity within the city. The director
shall perform all other functions and duties required by law.
   C.   The department of power shall have a division within it known as the
hydroelectric generation division. This division shall have a manager who shall
be responsible for operation and maintenance of all hydroelectric power
generation facilities for the city under the direction of the director of the
department of power. The manager shall also perform all other functions and
duties as required by law of a division manager. (Prior code § 2-1-2(f)(10))
2.02.190: DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE; GENERALLY:
The general functions of each division within and under the department of
finance and their managers are as follows in sections
2.02.200 through
2.02.220 of this article. (Prior code § 2-1-2(g))
2.02.200: DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE; PURCHASING AND STORES DIVISION; MANAGER:
   A.   The general function of the division of purchasing and stores is to
purchase all equipment, supplies and other personal property for the city's
departments and divisions upon the best terms and for the best price possible.
The division also accounts for and controls the inventory of the property for
the city, and performs all other functions as required by law.
   B.   The manager of the division of purchasing and stores acts as purchasing
agent for the city in securing all the supplies, equipment and other personal
property needed by the city's departments and divisions and controlling and
monitoring the inventory of the same. The manager shall perform such other
functions and duties required by law. (Prior code § 2-1-2(g)(1))
2.02.220: DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE; ACCOUNTING DIVISION; MANAGER:
The general functions of the accounting division are to maintain fiscal systems
and procedures including internal control procedures within and among the
various departments and divisions of the city; to keep or cause to be kept the
general subsidiary journals and ledgers for all city funds; to direct or
participate in the preaudit and postaudit of purchase requisitions, receipts,
invoices and other claims for payment; to prepare and maintain payroll and
payroll reports; to prepare monthly closing journal entries and analyze
appropriation reports; to check daily revenue collection cash reports; to
prepare adjustment vouchers, to correct or close accounts maintained; to
participate in the maintenance of inventory control systems for cost
accounting; and to perform all other functions and duties required by law.
(Prior code § 2-1-2(g)(4))
2.02.225: DEPARTMENT OF TREASURER; DIRECTOR:
   A.   The general function of the department of treasurer is to take custody
of all monies, bonds or other securities belonging to the city, to provide for
the investment of all idle cash, and to perform all other functions and duties
required by law.
   B.   The city treasurer shall be responsible for the proper receipt of all
city monies, take custody of the same, provide for the investment of all idle
cash and perform all other functions and duties required by law. (Ord. 91-22 §
8, 1991)
2.02.227: DEPARTMENT OF TREASURER; UTILITY BILLING AND COLLECTIONS DIVISION:
The general functions of the utility billing and collections division are to
provide utility billing and collection services for the city's enterprise
funds, to provide collection support services for other divisions as requested,
and to perform all other functions and duties required by law. (Ord. 91-22 § 9,
1991)
2.02.230: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS; GENERALLY:
The general functions of each division within and under the department of
public works and their managers are as set out in sections
2.02.240 through
2.02.290 of this article. (Prior code § 2-1-2(h))
2.02.240: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS; PROPERTY AND BUILDING MANAGEMENT;
MANAGER:
   A.   The general function of the property and building management division
is to maintain, repair, improve and oversee the leasing or managing of any city
properties not directly managed by another division or department of the city
and to perform all other functions required by law.
   B.   The manager of the property and building management division shall
supervise the maintenance, repair and improvement of city properties, and to
manage other city property as described in this section and perform any other
duties or functions required by law. (Prior code § 2-1-2(h)(2))
2.02.250: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS; GARAGE AND MOTOR POOL DIVISION; MANAGER:
The general functions of the garage and motor pool division are to maintain and
repair all motor vehicles and similar equipment owned by the city. It shall
supervise and coordinate the use of city motor vehicles among and within the
various departments and divisions to facilitate a more efficient and economical
use of the vehicles and perform any other functions provided by law. (Prior
code § 2-1-2(h)(3))
2.02.260: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS; WATER AND SEWER DIVISION; MANAGER:
   A.   The general functions of the water and sewer division are to provide
all persons and entities within the city with an adequate water supply as well
as effective sewer and drainage service, and to perform such other functions
required by law.
   B.   The manager of the water and sewer division supervises, assigns and
schedules crews for the purpose of installing, maintaining, repairing or
inspecting of any part of the city's water and sewer system. He or she shall
perform all other functions and duties required by law. (Prior code § 2-1-2(h)
(4))
2.02.280: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS; STREETS DIVISION; MANAGER:
   A.   The general functions of the division of streets are to see to the
proper construction, maintenance and repair of the city streets, sidewalks,
curbs, gutters and other fixtures under the city's control and located upon the
city's highways, roadways or rights of way. It shall perform all other
functions and duties required by law.
   B.   The manager of the division of streets shall supervise the activities
and scheduling of work in the division and assure the proper operation and
maintenance of all equipment within the division. The manager shall review all
work done by anyone on the city streets to assure its compliance with
applicable standards. The manager shall perform all other functions and duties
required by law. (Prior code § 2-1-2(h)(7))
2.02.290: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS; ENGINEERING DIVISION; MANAGER:
   A.   The general functions of the engineering division are to provide
necessary engineering services to all other departments and divisions of the
city, to act as custodian of records of public improvements (identifying the
detail of their construction and location), maps, plans, plats, profiles,
drawings, estimates and specifications which any way relate to the public
improvements and engineering affairs of the city. The engineering division
shall have general supervision of all construction work to see that it conforms
to city plans and specifications. It shall perform all other functions required
by law.
   B.   The city engineer or manager of the engineering division shall exercise
general control and supervision over the functions of the engineering division.
The city engineer or manager shall also act as the city's traffic engineer and
perform all other functions and duties required by law. (Ord. 90-31 § 3, 1990:
prior code § 2-1-2(h)(8))
2.02.295: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS; BUILDING INSPECTION DIVISION; MANAGER:
The general functions of the building inspector are to carry out all duties
imposed on the city building inspectors by title 15 of this code. It shall
perform all other functions required by law. (Ord. 90-31 § 4, 1990)
2.02.300: DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION; GENERALLY:
The divisions and officers in sections
2.02.310 through
2.02.340 of this article shall be within and under the department of
administration. (Prior code § 2-1-2(i))
2.02.310: DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION; PERSONNEL DIVISION; MANAGER:
The division of personnel shall establish and implement guidelines and
procedures in the city's hiring process, promotions, discharges, etc., to
ensure compliance with law affecting and regulating employees and employment
relations. It shall suggest and implement such practices and policies as will
ensure the acquisition and retention of qualified employees for the city, and
perform such other functions as required by law. (Prior code § 2-1-2(i)(1))
2.02.320: DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION; COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIVISION;
MANAGER:
   A.   The general function of the division of community development and its
manager are to administer local, state and federal community development
programs, recommend and pursue policy options for community development; advise
the city administration on state and federal programs and policies; assure
proper compliance with grant requirements and applicable state and federal
laws; serve as city proposal and grant manager; coordinate the development
activities of city departments as assigned; manage the Logan redevelopment
agency; exercise general supervision over the cultural arts center programs;
perform other duties as assigned.
   B.   The general functions of the city planning division are to act as
professional staff and advisor to the city planning commission and all other
city departments and divisions needing such planning service and advice. The
division also evaluates all pending building permits and designs and evaluates
city initiated projects needing planning service or advice. It shall perform
all other functions required by the law.
   C.   The manager of the planning division, or city planner, shall assist
other departments and divisions in evaluating all pending building permit
applications to assure the proposed project's compliance with current land use
ordinances. The manager shall assist the public in obtaining and understanding
the city's land use and zoning ordinances, and guide for development. The
manager shall supervise the performance of all other functions or duties
required by law. (Ord. 89-51 § 2, 1989: prior code § 2-1-2(i)(2))
2.02.330: DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION; CITY RECORDER:
   A.   The general functions of the city recorder are to keep the records and
papers of the city including contracts, deeds, licenses, ordinances and
resolutions and to keep a record of the proceedings and the meetings of the
governing body and perform all other functions required by law.
   B.   The city recorder shall countersign all contracts made in behalf of the
city and make a record of all contracts, properly indexed. He shall attend the
meetings of the governing body and keep a record of their proceedings and keep
and file such other records, documents, etc., of the city and perform other
such functions and duties as required by law. (Prior code § 2-1-2(i)(3))
2.02.340: DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION; DATA PROCESSING DIVISION:
The general function of the data processing division is to provide computer
service support to city operations and to perform any other functions required
by law. (Ord. 91-22 § 3, 1991)
2.02.345: DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION; SAFETY DIVISION:
The mayor shall appoint a safety officer who shall function under the
department of administration and who shall report directly to the mayor. The
duties of the safety officer shall include promotion of safety program
development, procedural compliance with safety regulations to enhance the safe
and healthful work environment for employees. The safety officer shall also be
responsible for monitoring and inspecting safety activities among the various
departments to ensure the implementation of the standardized safety program
through the city. In that regard, all departments are required to adhere to the
safety officer's directives and recommendations. If any department head
disagrees with the reasonableness of the safety officer's directives and
recommendations, the department head may appeal in writing directly to the
mayor, whose decision on the matter shall be final. (Ord. 89-61 § 2, 1989)
2.02.350: STAFF OFFICERS; GENERALLY:
The functions of the staff officers in sections
2.02.360 and
2.02.370 of this article are as follows in such sections. (Prior code § 2-1-2
(j))
2.02.360: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   The city attorney shall be an advisor to the chief executive officer
and to the municipal council.
   B.   The city attorney shall give the city government, including its
directors and managers, legal counsel and advice dealing with the business of
the city. The city attorney shall draft all ordinances, resolutions and
contracts when called upon to do so and shall represent the city in all legal
actions wherein the city is a party. The attorney shall perform all other
functions required by law. (Prior code § 2-1-2(e),(j)(1))
2.02.370: CITY BUDGET OFFICER:
The city budget officer shall perform such functions and duties as are
necessary to assure the city's compliance with the Utah uniform fiscal
procedure act for Utah cities 1 . The city budget officer shall act as the
financial officer for the purpose of approving:
   A.   Payroll checks, if the checks are prepared in accordance with a salary
schedule established in a personnel ordinance or resolution; or
   B.   Routine expenditures, such as utility bills, payroll related expenses,
supplies, materials and payments on city approved contracts and capital
expenditures which were referenced in the budget document and approved by an
appropriation resolution adopted for the current fiscal year. (1989 Code: prior
code § 2-1-2(j)(2))
 
Notes
1 1. UCA, 1953, § 10-6-101 et seq.
ARTICLE IV. LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
2.02.380: SUPPLYING INFORMATION TO THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL AND INDIVIDUAL COUNCIL
MEMBERS:
It shall be the policy of the city to provide the municipal council and the
individual council members with complete and total access to all the records,
documents, financial data and administrative reports of the city, and to this
end:
   A.   Administrative officials shall upon request of the council or council
members reasonably locate, copy and compile information or records concerning
city operations.
   B.   The municipal council and individual council members may reasonably
obtain copies of identified city records and documents free of charge.
   C.   Should administrative officials deem any of such requests or a series
of such requests unreasonable, the matter shall be submitted to the municipal
council for a final determination of whether the request was unreasonable.
   D.   This code shall in no way limit, restrict or in any way hinder the
access granted by law to all citizens of the city to peruse, examine and copy
the records of the city. (Prior code § 2-1-4(b))
2.02.390: COUNCIL; REGULAR MEETINGS:
The municipal council shall hold its regular meetings two (2) times each month
as follows: on the first and third Tuesdays of each month at five thirty
o’clock (5:30) P.M. at the city offices. In the absence of a quorum or for
other good cause, the municipal council may cancel or reschedule any regular
meeting. Notice of the cancelled or rescheduled meeting shall be made in a
timely, reasonable and practical manner. (Ord. 08-01 § 1, 2008; amd. Ord. 23-
01, 1-17-2023)
2.02.400: COUNCIL; SPECIAL MEETINGS:
Special meetings of the council may be ordered by the chairman, a majority of
the council or by the mayor. The order must be filed with the recorder and must
be signed by the person or persons calling the special meeting and must be
entered in the minutes of the council. Except in case of emergency, as declared
by the mayor, not less than two (2) days' notice of any special meeting must be
given by the recorder to each member not joining in the order, the notice of
the meeting to be served personally or left at his or her usual place of abode.
All regular meetings of the council, to which any person not a principal
officer is admitted, must be opened to the public. (Prior code § 2-1-5(b))
2.02.410: MAYOR; POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The mayor being the chief administrative officer of the municipality
shall have such powers and duties as specified by the optional forms of
municipal government act as it may be amended from time to time and such other
duties as may be required by law not inconsistent with the act.
   B.   The mayor shall furnish the municipal council with a monthly report
setting forth the amounts of all budget appropriations, the total disbursements
to date from those appropriations and the amount of indebtedness incurred or
contracted against each appropriation, and the percentage of the appropriations
encumbered to date. The monthly report shall be due to the council from the
mayor on the third Thursday of each month for the prior month's expenditures
and revenues.
   C.   The mayor shall also submit to the municipal council at the end of each
quarter a statement of income and expenditures of each utility fund reflecting
their operation to the date of the statement for the current year and comparing
the period with operating results for the same period during the preceding
year. This statement of income shall be due from the mayor to the municipal
council on the third Thursday of the month following the end of the preceding
quarter. (1989 Code: prior code § 2-1-6)
2.02.420: BUDGET ADOPTION:
   A.   On or before the first regularly scheduled meeting of the legislative
body of May of each fiscal year, the budget officer shall prepare for the
ensuing budget year, on forms provided by the state auditor, and file with the
municipal council, a tentative budget for each fund for which a budget is
required.
   B.   Such tentative budgets shall be in a form as required by state law.
   C.   The tentative budgets shall be reviewed, considered and revised by the
municipal council as they deem necessary. (Ord. 08-05 § 1, 2008)
CHAPTER 2.04
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
SECTION:
2.04.010: Appointment; Compensation
2.04.020: Terms
2.04.030: Vacancy
2.04.010: APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION:
The mayor, with the advice and consent of the municipal council, shall appoint
a qualified person to each of the offices of city recorder, city treasurer,
city engineer, city attorney and city purchasing agent; each of them shall have
powers and perform such duties as are now provided by law. The municipal
council may create any other office that may be deemed necessary for the good
government of the city, and regulate and prescribe the powers and duties and
compensation of all the officers of the city, except as otherwise provided by
law. Public hearing on the compensation of any officer may be held at the time
of public hearing on the annual city budget. Salaries of city officers shall be
in the amounts fixed after the public hearing on the annual city budget. The
mayor may appoint all such officers and agents as may be provided by law or
ordinance, and fill all vacancies occurring therein, and may appoint persons to
more than one office, except where otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(1989 Code: prior code § 2-2-1)
2.04.020: TERMS:
Except as otherwise provided by law, the term of all appointed officers and
employees, except members of the police and fire departments and heads of
departments and superintendents, shall be without limitation of time and until
their successors are duly appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed by the
mayor as provided by law. Terms of members of the police and fire department,
except for the chiefs thereof, shall be governed by civil service. (1989 Code:
prior code § 2-2-2)
2.04.030: VACANCY:
If any vacancy shall occur in any appointed office provided by law or
ordinance, the mayor shall fill such vacancy, subject to the advice and consent
of the municipal council where applicable. (1989 Code: prior code § 2-2-3)
CHAPTER 2.06
OFFICERS' BONDS AND OATHS
(Rep. by Ord. 18-20, 2018)
CHAPTER 2.08
CITY RECORDER
SECTION:
2.08.010: Appointment
2.08.020: Duties
2.08.030: Additional Duties
2.08.040: Charges For Copies Of Public Records
2.08.010: APPOINTMENT:
The mayor, with the advice and consent of the municipal council, shall appoint
a qualified person to the office of city recorder, who shall have such powers
and perform such duties as are now provided by law. The office of city recorder
may be held by the city auditor. (1989 Code: prior code § 2-8-1)
2.08.020: DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the city recorder to keep the records, papers
and seal of the city, and ordinances and resolutions passed by the municipal
council in a book kept for that purpose. The city recorder shall keep in a
separate book a record of the proceedings of the municipal council. The
recorder shall keep the city recorder's office open for business between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of each day
except Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays. The recorder shall file all papers
deposited in the city recorder's office with the date of the filing and add the
city recorder's name and official title thereto. The filing shall be
substantially in the following form:
      Filed this         day of            , 20    .
                                    , City Recorder
   B.   Copies of all papers filed in the city recorder's office and
transcripts from all records of the municipal council certified by the recorder
under the corporate seal shall be evidence in all courts as if the original
were produced. The city recorder shall perform such additional duties as may be
provided by ordinance or order of the municipal council.
   C.   The city recorder shall deposit into the city treasury all monies
belonging to the city coming into recorder's hands by virtue of his or her
office. The city recorder shall deliver to his or her successor in office the
corporate seal, together with all books, papers, records and other property in
the recorder's possession belonging to the city.
   D.   The city recorder shall countersign all contracts made in behalf of the
city, and every contract made in behalf of the city or to which the city is a
party shall be void unless signed by the recorder.
   E.   Whenever any real estate or any interest therein is transferred or
granted by the city, the deed, lease, contract or other instrument shall be
filed or recorded at length in the office of the city recorder before being
delivered to the grantee. (Prior code §§ 2-8-1 – 2-8-5)
2.08.030: ADDITIONAL DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the city recorder to notify the city auditor
and the commissioner of parks and public property of all final acts of the
municipal council which pertain to the purchase, sale, transfer, lease or
encumbrance of any real estate in which the city is interested.
   B.   The recorder shall, on or before January 10 of each year, make an
annual report in writing to the municipal council, which report shall show:
      1.   The monies received and disbursed, if any, during the preceding
twelve (12) months;
      2.   The business done or labor performed by the officer or his or her
department during the preceding twelve (12) months, and the general condition
of her or his office or department at the close of the preceding fiscal year.
(Prior code § 2-8-6)
2.08.040: CHARGES FOR COPIES OF PUBLIC RECORDS:
Except where charges are otherwise fixed by law, a person requesting a copy of
a public record shall be required to pay a fee as established in a fee schedule
passed by a resolution of the municipal council and approved by the mayor.
(Ord. 09-85 § 1, 2010)
CHAPTER 2.10
CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
2.10.010: Appointment
2.10.020: Duties
2.10.030: Accounting
2.10.040: Special Funds
2.10.050: Payments On Warrants
2.10.060: Special Taxes; Collector
2.10.070: Money Paid Into Treasury
2.10.080: Office Hours
2.10.090: Delivery To Successor; Penalty Upon Refusal
2.10.100: Purchasing Agent; Duties
2.10.110: Public Money; Deposit; Use
2.10.120: Custodian Of Funds
2.10.130: Registry Of Warrants
2.10.010: APPOINTMENT:
The mayor shall, with the advice and consent of the municipal council, appoint
a qualified person to the office of city treasurer, who shall have such powers
and perform such duties as are provided by law. (1989 Code: prior code § 2-9-1)
2.10.020: DUTIES:
The city treasurer shall receive all money belonging to the city, including all
taxes, licenses, water rates and fines, and keep an accurate and detailed
account thereof in such a manner as the municipal council from time to time may
by ordinance direct, and the city treasurer shall collect special taxes and
assessments as provided by law and ordinance. (Prior code § 2-9-2)
2.10.030: ACCOUNTING:
The cash book of receipts kept in the treasurer's office shall show the names
of the persons from whom monies are received of the sources of each sum
received, the date received, and the fund, department or account to which each
entry applies. The city treasurer shall issue triplicate receipts in all cases
for monies received on forms provided by the city auditor. The original receipt
shall be given to the person making the payment, the duplicate shall at the
close of each day's business be filed with the city auditor and the triplicate
shall be retained by the city treasurer for future reference. The city
treasurer shall at the close of business each day make and file with the city
auditor a statement showing a summary of all cash received during the day and a
statement showing the total amount of money on hand of all funds and where the
same is located or deposited. The city treasurer shall also prepare in
triplicate at the close of business on the last day in each and every month a
statement showing a summary for the month of the receipts in each fund and
warrants redeemed by each fund. The city treasurer shall submit the original of
the monthly statement to the municipal council and file the duplicate thereof
with the city auditor. The city treasurer shall make settlement with the city
auditor at the end of every month and turn over all warrants, interest coupons,
bonds or other evidence of indebtedness of the city which may have been
redeemed by the treasurer during the month; taking receipt of the city auditor,
therefor, and all such warrants or other evidence of indebtedness shall be
canceled by the treasurer and have written or stamped thereon the date of their
payment or redemption. The treasurer's books and records shall at all times be
open to the inspection of the city auditor and the municipal council. (Prior
code § 2-9-3)
2.10.040: SPECIAL FUNDS:
All monies on any special assessment shall be held by the treasurer as a
special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for which the
assessment was made, and the money shall be used for no other purpose whatever.
(Prior code § 2-9-4)
2.10.050: PAYMENTS ON WARRANTS:
   A.   The city treasurer shall pay no money out save upon lawful warrant,
except bonds and interest coupons which, when due, may be paid upon
presentation, or in case the same are payable at some other place, then the
money for their redemption shall be sent to the place where they are payable in
time to meet such payment when due.
   B.   All warrants shall be paid in the order in which they shall be
presented, and the treasurer shall note upon the back of each warrant presented
to the treasurer the date of such presentation, when payment is made and the
date of the payment; provided, that any warrant shall be paid by the treasurer
in case a sufficient amount of money shall remain in the treasury to pay all
warrants issued previous to such warrant. (Prior code § 2-9-5)
2.10.060: SPECIAL TAXES; COLLECTOR:
The city treasurer shall be ex officio collector of special taxes. (Prior code
§ 2-9-6)
2.10.070: MONEY PAID INTO TREASURY:
All fines and forfeitures for the violation of ordinances and all money
collected for licenses or otherwise shall be paid into the city treasury.
(Prior code § 2-9-7)
2.10.080: OFFICE HOURS:
The city treasurer shall keep the treasurer's office open for business during
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of each day,
except Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. (Prior code § 2-9-8)
2.10.090: DELIVERY TO SUCCESSOR; PENALTY UPON REFUSAL:
The city treasurer shall within five (5) days after notification and request
deliver to the city treasurer's successor in office all properties, books and
effects of every description in the treasurer's possession belonging to the
city or appertaining to the city treasurer's office, and upon refusal to do so,
the city treasurer shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be liable
for all damages caused thereby. (Prior code § 2-9-9)
2.10.100: PURCHASING AGENT; DUTIES:
The city purchasing agent, or the city treasurer where no purchasing agent has
been appointed, shall purchase for and in behalf of the city supplies of every
kind, nature and description for the use of the city in all of its departments;
and no materials or supplies of any kind, nature or description for the use of
the city shall be purchased or ordered by any of the departments or the members
thereof until and unless the approval of the purchasing agent is first
obtained. Before any purchase or order therefor is made by the purchasing
agent, the treasurer shall ascertain from the city auditor that the account to
be charged has sufficient funds therein to pay for the same. All invoices
covering the purchase of supplies for the city shall be checked and approved by
the purchasing agent before payment therefor is made by the city. (Prior code §
2-9-10)
2.10.110: PUBLIC MONEY; DEPOSIT; USE:
   A.   The treasurer shall have custody of all money belonging to the city and
shall deposit all cash received in any bank, banks or trust companies as
prescribed in Utah law. All bank accounts shall be carried in the name of the
city.
   B.   Whenever it shall appear to the municipal council that the treasurer is
making a profit from the public money or is using the same for any purpose not
authorized by law, they shall suspend the treasurer from office; and upon the
treasurer's conviction for such offense, the office of treasurer shall become
vacant. (Ord. 14-75, 2014: prior code § 2-9-11)
2.10.120: CUSTODIAN OF FUNDS:
The city treasurer shall be the custodian of all monies, notes, bonds,
mortgages or other evidences of debt belonging to the city, and shall keep the
same safely and account therefor as provided by law and ordinance. (Prior code
§ 2-9-12)
2.10.130: REGISTRY OF WARRANTS:
The treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants, redeemed and paid during
the year, describing such warrants, their date, amount, number, and the fund
from which paid, specifying also the time of payment. (Prior code § 2-9-13)
CHAPTER 2.12
CITY AUDITOR
SECTION:
2.12.010: Duties; Finance
2.12.020: Duties; Audits
2.12.030: Bonds And Warrants; Certification
2.12.040: Bonds; Warrants; Restrictions
2.12.050: Certifying Officer; Protection
2.12.060: Financial Statements; Publication
2.12.070: Orientation Of Successor; Penalty For Refusal
2.12.010: DUTIES; FINANCE:
The city auditor shall draw and countersign all orders upon the treasurer in
pursuance of an order or resolution of the municipal council and keep a full
and accurate account thereof on books provided for that purpose; the auditor
shall make to the municipal council reports of the financial condition of the
city; the auditor shall make and keep a list of outstanding bonds, to whom
issued, for what purpose, when and where payable, and the rates of interest
they respectively bear, and the auditor shall recommend such action to the
municipal council as shall secure the payment of the principal and interest of
such bonds; the auditor shall report annually, on or before May 1, to the
municipal council an estimate of the expenses of the city and of the revenue
necessary to be raised for the current year; the auditor shall keep regular
books of account in which the auditor shall enter all indebtedness of the city
and which shall at all times show the financial condition of the city, the
amount of bonds, orders, certificates or other evidences of indebtedness issued
by the municipal council, the amount of all bonds, orders, certificates or
other evidences of indebtedness which have been redeemed, and the amount of
each outstanding; the auditor shall keep accounts with all receiving and
disbursing officers of the city, showing the amount they have received from the
different sources of revenue and the amount which they have distributed under
the direction of the municipal council; the auditor shall examine all reports,
books, papers, vouchers and accounts of the city treasurer; the auditor shall
audit all claims and demands against the city before they are allowed by the
municipal council and shall keep a record of claims presented and the action of
the municipal council thereon; and the auditor shall perform such other duties
as are provided by law and as the municipal council may provide by ordinance.
(Prior code § 2-5-1)
2.12.020: DUTIES; AUDITS:
The auditor shall audit at frequent intervals the accounts of every officer or
employed who does or may receive or disburse money and all claims against the
city. The auditor shall have the care and distribution of all clerical supplies
and other articles not otherwise provided by law. The auditor shall have charge
of and supervision over all printing by or for the city unless otherwise
provided by law. (Prior code § 2-5-7)
2.12.030: BONDS AND WARRANTS; CERTIFICATION:
The city auditor shall endorse a certificate upon every bond, warrant or other
evidences of debt issued pursuant to law that the same is within the lawful
debt limit of the city and is issued according to law. The auditor shall sign
such certificate in her or his official character. (Prior code § 2-5-2)
2.12.040: BONDS; WARRANTS; RESTRICTIONS:
Warrants for interest in the bonded debt, for salaries and for the current
expenses of the city, may be certified by the auditor to be within the lawful
debt limits of the city whenever the same, together with all other indebtedness
of the city, shall not exceed the amount of the indebtedness of the city at the
time of the admission of this state into the union, in addition to the whole
amount of taxes of such city for the year in and for which such warrant or
warrants are issued. (Prior code § 2-5-3)
2.12.050: CERTIFYING OFFICER; PROTECTION:
Whenever the municipal council of the city shall find and declare that any
appropriation or expenditure for which a warrant or warrants are to be issued
was or is for interest upon the bonded debt for salaries or for the current
expenses of the city, such findings shall conclusively protect the city
auditor, as to such facts, in certifying any warrant or warrants therefor to be
within the lawful debt limit of the city. (Prior code § 2-5-4)
2.12.060: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS; PUBLICATION:
The city auditor shall prepare and publish on or before the first Monday in
October of each year in some newspaper having a general circulation in the city
a detailed statement of the financial condition of the city and of all revenues
and expenditures for the previous fiscal year; provided, that upon the
expiration of the city auditor's term of office and before his or her successor
enters upon the city auditor's duties, the auditor shall make and prepare the
statement, properly attested, for the use and benefit of the city auditor's
successor in office, showing:
   A.   The total receipts of the city, stating particularly the source of each
portion of the revenue;
   B.   The amount of cash on hand at the date of the last report;
   C.   The amount of the sinking fund, and how invested;
   D.   The number, date and amount of every bond issued or redeemed, and the
amount received or paid therefor;
   E.   The indebtedness of the city, funded and floating, stating the amount
of each class and the rate of interest borne by such indebtedness or any part
thereof;
   F.   The amount of cash in the city treasury and in its several funds;
   G.   The total expenditures of the city, as shown by the warrants issued,
giving in total the amount expended in each department. (Prior code § 2-5-5)
2.12.070: ORIENTATION OF SUCCESSOR; PENALTY FOR REFUSAL:
The city auditor shall, within five (5) days after the expiration of her or his
term of office, after notification and request, deliver to the city auditor's
successor in office all properties, books and effects of every description in
the auditor's possession belonging to the city or appertaining to such office,
and upon the auditor's refusal to do so, the auditor shall be liable for all
damages caused thereby, and shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
punished therefor as provided by law. (Prior code § 2-5-6)
CHAPTER 2.14
CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
2.14.010: Created
2.14.020: Duties
2.14.030: Attendance At Meetings Of Municipal Council; Additional Duties
2.14.040: Record Keeping; Dockets
2.14.010: CREATED:
There is created the office of city attorney, which office shall be filled by
the mayor with the advice and consent of the municipal council. (1989 Code:
prior code § 2-4-1)
2.14.020: DUTIES:
The city attorney shall give counsel and advice in all legal matters pertaining
to the rights, obligations, property, property rights, administration and
officers of the city; the city attorney shall also have charge and conduct on
the city's behalf all litigation and prosecutions by the city for violation of
any city ordinance. The city attorney shall prepare and draft all ordinances
and resolutions of the municipal council when requested; the city attorney
shall draw any deeds, leases, contracts or other papers and forms required by
the business of the city when requested to do so by the mayor or municipal
council or the head of any department; the attorney shall also furnish written
opinions and advice when requested by the head of any department pertaining to
the business or interests of the city. Should the attorney have personal
knowledge of any violation of a city ordinance or receive reliable information
of any such violation, he or she shall immediately institute the necessary
steps to bring the offender to punishment. (1989 Code: prior code § 2-4-2)
2.14.030: ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS OF MUNICIPAL COUNCIL; ADDITIONAL DUTIES:
The city attorney shall attend the meetings of the municipal council; but such
attendance upon any given meeting may be waived by the council at its election.
The city attorney shall advise and counsel the municipal council and the
members thereof and all other officers of the city upon such questions of law
pertaining to the business, property and all affairs of the city as may from
time to time arise. The city attorney shall prosecute and defend in all courts
all actions in behalf of the city, and defend all actions against any officer
or agent of the city because of his or her official acts; the attorney shall
take appeals or sue out writs of error on behalf of the city or any officer as
set out in this chapter with the consent and approval of the mayor; and the
city attorney may make the necessary affidavits and certifications on behalf of
the city in any and all proceedings. (1989 Code: prior code § 2-4-3)
2.14.040: RECORD KEEPING; DOCKETS:
The city attorney shall keep a record showing all claims placed with the city
attorney for collection, all monies received by the attorney on account of the
city and all payments made by the attorney to the city treasurer. The city
attorney shall also keep a docket in which he or she shall keep a record of
suits pending and the proceedings had therein. (Prior code § 2-4-4)
CHAPTER 2.16
CITY ENGINEER
SECTION:
2.16.010: Created
2.16.020: Duties
2.16.030: Seal
2.16.040: Record Keeping; Field Notes, Maps And Profiles
2.16.050: Street Grades; Establishing
2.16.060: Custodian Of Monuments
2.16.070: Interference Prohibited
2.16.080: Assisting Other Departments
2.16.010: CREATED:
There is created the office of city engineer, whose office shall be filled by
the municipal council upon the recommendation of the mayor, and the city
engineer shall receive such salary as the council may decide. (Prior code § 2-
7-1)
2.16.020: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the city engineer to locate and give the lines and
grades of all streets and sidewalks, alleys, avenues or other public ways
including curb and gutter when requested to do so by the owner of abutting
property for the making of any improvement. The city engineer shall determine
the position, size, grade and construction (subject to the supervision and
approval of the municipal commissioners) of all sewers, waterworks, irrigation
or drainage canals, reservoirs, culverts, curb and gutters, aqueducts, bridges,
viaducts or other public work or appurtenances. The city engineer shall prepare
plans, maps or profiles of the same and make estimates and furnish
specifications for any of the work whenever required to do so by the municipal
council. The city engineer shall have a general supervision of all contract or
other work and see that it is performed in a workmanlike manner and in
accordance with the authorized plans and specifications. The city engineer
shall locate and plat the electric light poles and lines of the Logan City
municipal light system including extensions made. (Prior code § 2-7-2)
2.16.030: SEAL:
The city engineer shall be provided with a seal by the city for the engineer's
use containing the words "Logan City, Utah, Engineering Department". The seal
shall be affixed to every certification or approval. (Prior code § 2-7-3)
2.16.040: RECORD KEEPING; FIELD NOTES, MAPS AND PROFILES:
The city engineer shall keep in the city engineer's office certified copies of
all the field notes, maps or profiles which relate to city surveys, waterworks,
electric light lines, sewers, irrigation system, street or sidewalks, and all
other engineering works, and the engineer shall arrange and index them in such
manner as will enable a ready reference thereto, and all shall be the property
of the city. (Prior code § 2-7-4)
2.16.050: STREET GRADES; ESTABLISHING:
Whenever it shall be deemed advisable to establish a grade on any street where
no grade has been heretofore established or to change any established grade,
the city engineer shall cause the necessary survey to be made and the city
engineer shall prepare and submit to the municipal council a profile map of
such proposed grade with his or her recommendations concerning the same. The
council shall thereupon make such changes as it may deem proper. When any such
profile map shall have been approved and adopted by the municipal council as a
correct map of the grade on such street, the action of the council shall be
endorsed on the map by the city recorder and the map shall then be filed in the
office of the city engineer, and the grade on any such street shall thereafter
be considered as established as shown on such profile map. (Prior code § 2-7-5)
2.16.060: CUSTODIAN OF MONUMENTS:
The city engineer is the custodian of all street monuments in the city. The
city engineer shall keep the monuments in perfect condition and properly
protected and allow them to be used by proper persons at all reasonable times.
(Prior code § 2-7-6)
2.16.070: INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to interrupt or molest the city engineer or any
of the engineer's assistants, agents or employees while engaged in official
duty, or to wilfully cause or offer to the engineer or any of the engineer's
assistants or employees any kind of corporal injury or hindrance. (Prior code §
2-7-7)
2.16.080: ASSISTING OTHER DEPARTMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the city engineer to assist the city treasurer in
preparing lists and descriptions of property subject to special taxes. The city
engineer shall assist the water and sewer departments whenever called upon to
do so by giving the location of respective grades, lines, connections,
openings, inlets, etc., of water and sewer mains respectively. It shall be the
duty of the city engineer to give the location for connection by private party
to the main sewer line in street; the engineer shall give proper grade line of
such private connection and shall supervise and see that the connection with
the sewer is properly made, for which services the city engineer shall charge a
fee as provided in
chapter 13.12 of this code. (Prior code § 2-7-8)
CHAPTER 2.18
CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2.18.010: Created
2.18.020: Powers And Duties
2.18.010: CREATED:
There is created the office of the chief of the fire department, which office
shall be filled by appointment by the mayor with the advice and consent of the
municipal council. (1989 Code: prior code § 2-10-1)
2.18.020: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The fire chief shall extinguish fires and protect life and property
from the same, and shall make such rules and regulations, subject to the
approval of the municipal council, for the government of all officers and
members of the department as the fire chief may deem expedient, and shall take
any measures which the fire chief may deem necessary for the extinguishment of
fires and the protection of property.
   B.   The fire department of the city is included in the department of public
safety and shall be under the direct management of the fire chief of the fire
department under the supervision of the mayor. The chief of the fire department
shall consult and advise with the municipal council on all matters pertaining
to the fire department and shall, from time to time, make such reports as the
municipal council shall require. The chief of the fire department shall have
charge of all officers, members and employees of the department and the chief
shall take any measure which he or she shall deem necessary for the prevention
and extinguishing of fire, the protection of life and property, the
preservation of the city and rules and regulations of the fire department. It
shall be the duty of the chief of the fire department, subject to approval of
the mayor, to make and adopt such rules and regulations for the government and
improvement of the department as in the fire chief's judgment shall be
necessary for the good of the service. It shall also be the duty of the chief
of the fire department to administer and enforce the provisions of the fire
prevention code adopted by chapter 8.04 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code §
2-10-2)
CHAPTER 2.19
POLICE AND FIRE
SECTION:
2.19.010: Residency Requirements
2.19.010: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The municipal council requires sworn, full time fire chief officers of
the Logan City fire department utilizing city vehicles, to reside no further
than thirty (30) miles from the Logan City office building located at 190 North
200 West Logan, Utah and within the area designated on the attached map, such
that their response time in an emergency may be within the requirements of the
department. Sworn, full-time firefighters, not utilizing city vehicles will
have no restricted living requirement and are subject to emergency recall and
disaster response per current Logan City Fire Department policies.
   B.   The municipal council requires sworn, full time officers of the Logan
City police department to reside no further than thirty (30) miles from the
Logan City office building located at 190 North 200 West Logan, Utah and within
the area designated on the attached map, such that their response time in an
emergency may be within the requirements of the department. (Ord. 16-04, 2016;
amd. Ord. 22-18, 2022; Ord. 24-24, 12-3-2024)
CHAPTER 2.20
MANAGER OF THE DIVISION OF STREETS
SECTION:
2.20.010: Created
2.20.020: Duties
2.20.030: Defects; To Be Reported To Manager
2.20.010: CREATED:
There is created the office of manager of division of streets, who shall be
appointed by the mayor and shall receive such salary as the mayor may
determine. (Prior code § 15-1-1)
2.20.020: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the manager of the division of streets to keep the
streets and sidewalks in proper repair and to see that all ordinances or orders
of the manager of the division of streets thereof relating to streets,
sidewalks and ditches are complied with. (Prior code § 15-1-2)
2.20.030: DEFECTS; TO BE REPORTED TO MANAGER:
All defects in public streets, coming to the knowledge of any officer or person
in the employ of the city shall be by him or her at once communicated to the
manager of the division of streets. (Prior code § 15-1-3)
CHAPTER 2.22
LIBRARY
SECTION:
2.22.010: Board Established
2.22.020: Board; Members
2.22.010: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
It is enacted by the municipal council of the city that a city library board of
directors is established which shall consist of seven (7) members. (Prior code
§ 13-4-1)
2.22.020: BOARD; MEMBERS:
The library board members shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the municipal council. Their terms shall be as provided in Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, 37-2-3, or as directed by other applicable law. (Prior code §
13-4-1)
CHAPTER 2.24
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2.24.010: Created
2.24.020: Chief Of Police; Duties
2.24.030: Police Officers; Powers And Duties; Removal Of Nuisances; Enforcement
Generally
2.24.040: Special Police Officers
2.24.050: Appointments; Removals
2.24.060: Rules And Regulations
2.24.070: Outside Employment; Conflicts Of Interest
2.24.080: Uniforms
2.24.010: CREATED:
There is created the office of chief of police of the city who shall be
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the municipal council.
(1989 Code: prior code § 2-11-1)
2.24.020: CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES:
The chief of police shall direct and control the police of the city. The chief
of police shall preserve the peace and good order of the city, quell all riots,
arrest and bring all violators of the city ordinances before the city judge for
trial, either with or without process, serve all process issued by the city
judge to him, direct and enforce all orders and judgments of the court, and
take such measures as shall secure the peace and good order of all public
meetings. The chief of police, in arresting any person accused or suspected of
a crime, in the suppression of any riot or unlawful assembly, or in the
prevention of the violation of the city ordinances, shall have the power to
call upon any citizen or bystander to assist the chief of police in the
execution of her or his duty. The chief of police shall inquire into and report
to the proper officers all violators of the city ordinances and criminal laws
of this state, and cause all ordinances passed by the municipal council to be
enforced. (1989 Code: prior code § 2-11-2)
2.24.030: POLICE OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES; REMOVAL OF NUISANCES; ENFORCEMENT
GENERALLY:
Police officers shall possess the powers conferred upon constables by law; they
shall execute and serve all warrants, process, commitments and writs issued by
the city court; they shall at all times preserve the public peace, prevent
crime, detect and arrest offenders, suppress riots, protect persons and
property, remove nuisances existing in the public streets, roads and highways,
enforce every law, both state and municipal relating to the suppression of
offenses and perform any duties enjoined upon them by ordinance. (Prior code §
2-11-5)
2.24.040: SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS:
The chief of police shall, by and with the consent of the mayor, appoint such
special police officers as may be required; but no such special police officers
shall be appointed for a period longer than ten (10) days without the consent
of the municipal council, and such person shall not be reappointed at the
expiration of ten (10) days without the consent of the municipal council. All
such appointments of special policemen shall be reported by the mayor to the
municipal council at its next meeting after such appointment. (1989 Code: prior
code § 2-11-6)
2.24.050: APPOINTMENTS; REMOVALS:
   A.   The chief of police shall, under the rules of the civil service
commission, appoint all subordinate officers, persons, employees and agents in
the police department.
   B.   The chief of police may at any time remove any subordinate officer,
employee, person or agent in the police department whenever the good of the
service will be subserved thereby, subject to hearing and review by the civil
service commission. (Prior code § 2-11-7)
2.24.060: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The chief of police, with the approval of the mayor, shall make and adopt such
rules and regulations for the improvement of the department and the uniforms of
the officers, employees, persons and agents connected therewith as in the chief
of police's judgment shall be necessary and most appropriate for the good of
the service. (Prior code § 2-11-8)
2.24.070: OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
No member of the police department shall receive any fee or any compensation
whatever, directly or indirectly, from a city, county, state, person or private
entity for any service rendered or act done by such member of the police
department other than the salary provided by ordinance, except outside
employment as approved by the chief of police pursuant to police policy and
witness fees authorized by law. An officer shall comply with all federal, state
and local laws regarding conflicts of interest between public duties and
personal interests. (Ord. 12-15, 2012)
2.24.080: UNIFORMS:
All regular police officers, while upon duty and when engaged in the duties
charged thereof (other than the chief of police) shall wear a uniform of such
color or pattern as may be approved by the mayor with the consent of the
municipal council; provided, that nothing in this section shall be deemed to
apply to special police officers or detectives. (1989 Code: prior code § 2-11-
11)
CHAPTER 2.26
BOARD OF CONDEMNATION AND CITY INSPECTOR
SECTION:
2.26.010: Created
2.26.020: Powers; Determining Nuisance
2.26.030: Condemnation; Notice; Hearing
2.26.040: Condemnation; Hearing By Mayor
2.26.050: Condemnation; Costs
2.26.060: City Inspector
2.26.070: City Inspector; Powers; Determining Nuisance
2.26.080: City Inspector; Declaring Nuisance; Notice
2.26.090: Request For Hearing
2.26.100: Nuisance; Hearing By Mayor
2.26.110: City Inspector; Nuisance Abatement Duties; Costs
2.26.120: Emergency Situations; Exception To Chapter
2.26.010: CREATED:
A board of condemnation of the city is created and shall consist of the chief
sanitarian, building inspector and the chief of the fire department, who shall
act without additional pay. (Prior code § 6-2-1)
2.26.020: POWERS; DETERMINING NUISANCE:
The board of condemnation is granted the power to find and determine whether
any building or other structure or condition in and about the same is a
nuisance because it is either:
   A.   Dangerous to human life or health; or
   B.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
three (3) or more persons; or
   C.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct any canal,
public park, square, street or highway; or
   D.   In any way renders three (3) or more persons insecure in life or the
use of property. (Prior code § 6-2-2)
2.26.030: CONDEMNATION; NOTICE; HEARING:
If the building or other structure or conditions in or about the same should be
abated, it shall, through any of its members request corrective action by the
owners of the premises. If such corrective action is not taken within the time
requested (which shall not be less than 10 days) the board of condemnation
shall give notice that the mayor shall hear the matter. Notice of hearing shall
be given by personal service on any occupant of the property who is over the
age of fourteen (14) years and by posting in a conspicuous place on the
property at least ten (10) days prior to the date of hearing a notice directed
to "all persons having or claiming any Interest in this building, structure or
property", designating or describing the building or structure or conditions in
or about the same to be a nuisance to be removed or abated, and stating the
reasons therefor, and the time and place of hearing. A copy of the notice shall
be mailed to the owner of the property or the owner's agent at such person's
last known address as disclosed by the records of the Cache County assessor by
registered or certified mail at least ten (10) days prior to such hearing.
(Prior code § 6-2-2)
2.26.040: CONDEMNATION; HEARING BY MAYOR:
At the time set for hearing by the board of condemnation in section
2.26.030 of this chapter, the mayor shall meet and hear the matter and receive
evidence. The mayor shall find and determine what removal, repair or alteration
is necessary or whether partial or total destruction of such building or
structure, or any part thereof is required in order that the same shall not
constitute a nuisance. The mayor shall also determine and find the length of
time necessary to complete any such repairs, alterations, removal or
destruction; such time to begin to run upon the service of findings of the
mayor which shall be by certified mail addressed to the owner of the property
at the owner's last known address. (Prior code § 6-2-3)
2.26.050: CONDEMNATION; COSTS:
Every building or structure or condition in or about the same found by the
mayor to constitute a nuisance requiring the abatement thereof shall, if not
removed, destroyed, altered or repaired within the time allowed by and in
accordance with the findings of the mayor, be deemed, and every such building,
structure or condition are declared to be a public nuisance; and every such
nuisance may be abated summarily by the board of condemnation, who may employ
any necessary assistance to cause such buildings, structures or conditions in
or about the same to be removed, altered, repaired or destroyed. The board of
condemnation shall prepare an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in
the alteration, repair, removal or destruction of the same and shall mail a
copy thereof to the owner of the property demanding payment within twenty (20)
days from the date of mailing. The notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed
by registered mail addressed to the property owner's last known address. In the
event the owner fails to make payment of the amount set forth in the statement
to the city treasurer within such twenty (20) days, the board of condemnation,
on behalf of the municipality, may cause suit to be brought in an appropriate
court of law or may refer the matter to the county treasurer as hereinafter
provided. In the event the collection of the costs are pursued through the
court, suit shall be commenced in behalf of the city for all of the costs of
removal, alteration, repair or destruction together with reasonable attorney
fees, interest and court costs. In the event the board of condemnation elects
to refer the matter to the county treasurer for inclusion in the tax notices of
the property owner, it shall make in quadruplicate an itemized statement of all
expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of the same. It shall deliver
three (3) copies of the statement to the county treasurer within ten (10) days
after completion of the work. (Prior code § 6-2-4)
2.26.060: CITY INSPECTOR:
The office of city inspector for the city is created and shall consist of a
person or persons appointed to such office by the mayor. (Prior code § 6-2-5)
2.26.070: CITY INSPECTOR; POWERS; DETERMINING NUISANCE:
   A.   The city inspector is granted the power to find and determine whether
any yard, lot or other place is a nuisance because it either:
      1.   Is dangerous to human life or health; or
      2.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of three (3) or more persons; or
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct any
canal, public park, square, street or highway; or
      4.   In any way renders three (3) or more persons insecure in life or the
use of property; or
      5.   Contains injurious, annoying or noxious weeds, garbage, refuse or
any significant and substantial unsightly condition or deleterious objects.
   B.   The city inspector may inspect any yard, lot or other place to
determine the existence of a "nuisance" as defined in this chapter, and the
facts observed by the city inspector after such inspection shall constitute
facts upon which the city inspector may base his or her determination. (Prior
code § 6-2-6)
2.26.080: CITY INSPECTOR; DECLARING NUISANCE; NOTICE:
If the city inspector determines that property contains injurious, annoying or
noxious weeds, garbage, refuse or any significant and substantial unsightly
condition or deleterious objects which should be abated, the city inspector
shall declare the same to be a nuisance and request corrective action either by
the purchasers, occupiers or owners of the premises. Notice of the city
inspector's determination and requested corrective action and the owner's,
purchaser's or occupier's right to a hearing, shall be given by personal
service on any occupant of the property who is over the age of fourteen (14)
years or by mailing the same, postage prepaid, to the owner's last known
address as disclosed by the records of the county assessor. Notice to a
purchaser shall be sufficient if mailed to the purchaser's last known address.
One notice shall be sufficient on any lot or parcel of property for the entire
season of weed growth during that year. (Prior code § 6-2-7)
2.26.090: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
If the owner, purchaser or occupier disagrees with the city inspector's finding
of the existence of a nuisance or the reasonableness of the city inspector's
requested corrective action, either or any of them may, within fifteen (15)
days from the date of the request, request that the mayor review the city
inspector's decision complained of. Thereafter, the mayor shall set a time and
a place to hear the matter. (Prior code § 6-2-8)
2.26.100: NUISANCE; HEARING BY MAYOR:
At the time set for hearing by the mayor, the mayor shall meet and hear the
matter and receive evidence. The mayor shall find and determine whether a
nuisance exists, and if so, what repair or alteration or other action is
necessary to remove or abate the nuisance. The mayor shall also determine and
find the length of time necessary to complete any such repair, alteration or
other action, such time to begin to run upon the making of a determination of
findings by the mayor. (Prior code § 6-2-9)
2.26.110: CITY INSPECTOR; NUISANCE ABATEMENT DUTIES; COSTS:
   A.   Every yard, lot or other place or condition found by the city inspector
or mayor to constitute a nuisance shall, if not repaired, altered or otherwise
abated within the time allowed by and in accordance with the findings of the
city inspector or mayor, may thereafter be abated summarily by the city
inspector, who may employ any necessary assistance to cause such repair,
alteration or other action necessary to abate or remove the nuisance.
   B.   The city inspector shall prepare an itemized statement of all expenses
incurred in abating the nuisance and shall mail a copy thereof to the owner,
purchaser, or occupier of the property demanding payment within twenty (20)
days from the date of mailing. The notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed
by registered mail addressed to the property owner's, purchaser's or occupier's
last known address.
   C.   In the event the owner, purchaser or occupier fails to make payment of
the amount set forth in the statement to the city treasurer within such twenty
(20) days, the city inspector, on behalf of the municipality, may cause suit to
be brought in an appropriate court of law or may refer the matter to the county
treasurer as hereinafter provided. In the event the collection of such costs
are pursued through the court, suit shall be commenced in behalf of the city
for all of the costs of repair, alteration, removal or abatement together with
reasonable attorney fees, interest and court costs. In the event the city
inspector elects to refer the matter to the county treasurer for inclusion in
the tax notices of the property owner, the city inspector shall make in
quadruplicate an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the removal and
destruction of the same. The city inspector shall deliver three (3) copies of
the statement to the county treasurer within ten (10) days after completion of
work abating the nuisance. (Prior code § 6-2-10)
2.26.120: EMERGENCY SITUATIONS; EXCEPTION TO CHAPTER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as limiting the power of
the city to act in an emergency situation when authorized by law. (Prior code §
6-2-12)
CHAPTER 2.28
POWER ADVISORY BOARD 1
SECTION:
2.28.010: Created; Members; Appointment
2.28.020: Term; Qualifications; Removal; Vacancies
2.28.030: Duties
2.28.040: Rules For Organization
 
Notes
1 1. Prior history: Prior code §§ 8-6-1 – 8-6-5; Ord. 88-1 § 1, 1988; Ord. 90-22 §
  1, 1990.
2.28.010: CREATED; MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT:
   A.   There is created a body designated as the Logan City power advisory
board.
   B.   It shall be composed of seven members appointed by the mayor with the
advice and consent of the municipal council. All members shall be residents of
the city, or work at a location currently served by the city, and may be chosen
from diversified categories of customer classes. No more than three may be non-
residents, working at locations currently served by the City of Logan. (Ord.
99-97 § 1, 1999; amd. Ord. 22-09, 4-19-2022)
2.28.020: TERM; QUALIFICATIONS; REMOVAL; VACANCIES:
   A.   Members shall be selected without partisan political considerations and
shall serve at the discretion of the mayor. Terms shall be for three (3) years.
Terms shall run from March through February, with staggering years of
expiration.
   B.   Any vacancies occurring by death, disability, removal or resignation
shall be filled by nomination of the mayor with the advice and consent of the
municipal council for the unexpired portion of the term concerned. (Ord. 99-97
§ 1, 1999)
2.28.030: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the board to study and review all policies, plans,
projected budgets and electric rates of the electric utility department and
make recommendations to the city concerning these matters. (Ord. 99-97 § 1,
1999)
2.28.040: RULES FOR ORGANIZATION:
The board shall formulate its own rules for selection of a chairperson, time,
place, and manner of calling meetings and other procedural matters, provided
meetings shall be held at least quarterly. A quorum shall be declared when four
(4) members are present. If, due to unforeseen circumstances, less than seven
(7) are appointed, or less than four (4) are in attendance, this advisory board
shall conduct normal business with the members present. A minimum of four (4)
members shall be present to accommodate a vote. A majority of the members
present shall be able to pass motions. (Ord. 99-97 § 1, 1999; amd. Ord. 22-09,
4-19-2022)
CHAPTER 2.30
BOARD OF HEALTH
SECTION:
2.30.010: Agreement With Bear River District Board Of Health
2.30.010: AGREEMENT WITH BEAR RIVER DISTRICT BOARD OF HEALTH:
The city has entered into an agreement dated September 18, 1980, with the Bear
River district board of health whereby the district has agreed to include the
city within its district. "Health board", as used in this code, means the Bear
River district board of health. (1989 Code: prior code § 10-1-1)
CHAPTER 2.32
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2.32.010: Purpose
2.32.020: Established
2.32.030: Duties And Responsibilities
2.32.040: Review Of Proposed Nominations To National Register Of Historic
Places
2.32.050: Duties Related To Historic Preservation Laws And Policies
2.32.010: PURPOSE:
The municipal council finds and declares:
   A.   It shall be the policy of the city to recognize that the historical
heritage of Logan is among its most valued and important assets;
   B.   The city shall identify and promote and protect its historical and
cultural resources;
   C.   The city shall ensure that there is an appropriately qualified
committee to provide advice and guidance in preserving history;
   D.   The city shall actively utilize the skills and services of the historic
preservation committee and other volunteer organizations and interested
neighborhood groups and citizens to preserve and enhance its historical and
cultural resources;
   E.   The Center Street historic district is a significant cultural and
community resource for the city. It contributes to the financial success of the
downtown area, and the attraction of business, tourism, and cultural events
into the city. The mission of the historic preservation committee is to ensure
that the quality of the district is maintained and enhanced for the benefit of
all citizens and businesses in Logan. (Ord. 97-52 § 2, 1997)
2.32.020: ESTABLISHED:
A historic preservation committee shall be established with the following
provisions:
   A.   Members: The committee shall be comprised of seven (7) members with a
demonstrated interest, competence or knowledge in historic preservation.
      1.   Members shall be appointed or reappointed by the mayor for a term of
four (4) years every second year. Terms shall commence on July 1 of even
numbered years, with a maximum of three (3) new committee members seated at any
one time, unless a committee member is appointed to finish a vacated term.
      2.   Any vacancy occurring on the commission by reason of death,
resignation, removal, or disqualification shall be filled by the mayor with the
advice and consent of the municipal council for the unexpired term of such
member. Members may be reappointed without a limitation on the number of terms
of service.
      3.   One committee member shall be a professional with experience in
architecture, historic preservation, or historic restoration from the
disciplines of history, and architecture or architectural history. If no
residents of the city of Logan are available for the professional seat
appointments, preference shall be given to professionals whose place of
business is within the city, and if necessary to appoint the professional
position, residency in Cache County may be used.
      4.   Three (3) committee members shall be from the public expressing
interest in historic preservation, at least one of whom shall be a resident of
the Center Street historic district.
      5.   One member shall be a representative of a business located within
the Center Street historic district.
   B.   Compliance With Open Public Meeting Law: The committee shall meet at
least twice each year and conduct business in accordance with the open public
meeting laws of Utah. This includes public notification of meeting place, time
and agenda items.
   C.   Frequency Of Meetings: It is intended that the committee shall strive
to meet at least once each month or more often as items appear on its agenda
and its services are needed to assist the citizens and business of Logan.
   D.   Removal From Office:
      1.   The historic preservation committee by three-fifths (3/5) vote may
recommend to the mayor that a member of the committee be removed from office
for:
         a.   Three (3) or more unexcused absences from regular committee
meetings during a calendar quarter;
         b.   Failure to attend four (4) or more consecutive regular committee
meetings;
         c.   Violation of committee policies and procedures.
      2.   A member of the historic preservation committee may be removed from
office by the mayor in conformance with the provisions of Utah code section 9-
2-1219.5.
   E.   Staff: The director of community development shall be the executive
secretary and staff to the historic preservation committee. (Ord. 01-71 § 1,
2001: Ord. 97-52 § 2, 1997)
2.32.030: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Survey Of Historic And Cultural Resources: At least once each decade,
the historic preservation committee shall conduct or cause to be conducted an
update to the survey of the historic, architectural and archeological resources
within the community. The survey shall be compatible with the Utah inventory of
historic and archeological sites. Survey and inventory documents shall be
maintained and open to the public.
   B.   Advise And Inform City Councils, Boards, Commissions And Committees:
      1.   The historic preservation committee shall act in an advisory role to
other boards, commissions, officials, and departments of local government
regarding the identification and protection of local historic and
archaeological resources.
      2.   The historic preservation committee shall work toward the continuing
education of citizens regarding historic preservation and the community's
history.
   C.   Review And Approve Requests For Grants, Assistance, And Recommend
Special Programs:
      1.   The committee shall be responsible for the approval or
recommendation for approval related to the award of grants or awards.
      2.   The committee shall review and recommend proposed budget and special
programs to the mayor.
      3.   The committee shall review and recommend on programs proposed by
neighborhood groups or individual property owners for enhancement and
preservation of the district.
   D.   Certificates Of Appropriateness: The committee shall approve,
conditionally approve, or deny requests for certificates of appropriateness
within the historic district as specified in the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 97-52
§ 2, 1997)
2.32.040: REVIEW OF PROPOSED NOMINATIONS TO NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC
PLACES:
The historic preservation committee shall review and comment to the state
historic preservation officer on all proposed national register nominations for
properties within the boundaries of the city. When the historic preservation
committee considers a national register nomination which is normally evaluated
by professionals in a specific discipline and that discipline is not
represented on the committee, the committee shall seek expertise in this area
before rendering its decision. (Ord. 97-52 § 2, 1997)
2.32.050: DUTIES RELATED TO HISTORIC PRESERVATION LAWS AND POLICIES:
   A.   The committee shall prepare and recommend adoption to the municipal
council "Guidelines And Criteria For Development And Remodeling Within The
Historic District".
   B.   The committee may prepare and recommend amendments to the "guidelines
and criteria" as becomes necessary from time to time.
   C.   The committee may be called upon by the city to provide advice,
guidance or support in relation to the enforcement of local regulations,
ordinances or policies, and state or federal laws associated with historic
preservation. (Ord. 97-52 § 2, 1997)
CHAPTER 2.34
LOGAN COMMUNITY FOUNDATION
SECTION:
2.34.010: Purpose
2.34.020: Filing
2.34.030: City Administration; Powers
2.34.010: PURPOSE:
It is found and determined by the municipal council that for the purpose of
accepting gifts to the city and for other related purposes, it is appropriate
to the general welfare, order and security of the city and in the best
interests of its citizens that the city create a nonprofit corporation under
the provisions of the Utah nonprofit corporation and cooperative association
act, Utah Code Annotated 16-6-18, 1953, as amended. (Prior code § 3-7-1)
2.34.020: FILING:
The mayor and other appropriate officers of the city are authorized and
directed to file on behalf of the city articles of incorporation for the
organization with the secretary of the state. (1989 Code: prior code § 3-7-2)
2.34.030: CITY ADMINISTRATION; POWERS:
City administration is authorized and directed to take all other action
necessary or appropriate to effectuate the purposes and provisions of this
chapter. (Prior code § 3-7-3)
CHAPTER 2.36
NEIGHBORHOOD COUNCILS
SECTION:
2.36.010: Neighborhood Councils Established
2.36.020: Purpose
2.36.030: Neighborhood Council Organization
2.36.040: Staff And Council Member Liaisons; Email Newsletter
2.36.010: NEIGHBORHOOD COUNCILS ESTABLISHED:
There are hereby established the following seven (7) neighborhood councils in
the city: Adams Neighborhood Council; Bridger Neighborhood Council; Ellis
Neighborhood Council; Hillcrest Neighborhood Council; Wilson Neighborhood
Council; Woodruff Neighborhood Council; and Utah State University Neighborhood
Council. The geographic areas of six (6) of the neighborhood councils shall be
based upon the boundaries designated on the attached map. There shall also be
one (1) neighborhood council representing the student population of Utah State
University. (Ord. 13-58, 2013; amd. Ord. 22-25, 2022)
2.36.020: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the neighborhood councils is to provide another means of
communication between the citizens and the mayor and municipal council and to
give the mayor and municipal council additional information concerning the
needs and desires of the citizens of the city. Neighborhood councils are not
legislative bodies and do not have any express or implied legislative or
executive authority. (Prior code § 2-12-1(b); amd. Ord. 22-25, 2022)
2.36.030: NEIGHBORHOOD COUNCIL ORGANIZATION:
Neighborhood councils are encouraged to adopt bylaws to determine its own
governance structure and to elect officers and a chairperson. It is also
suggested that a steering committee or other group of officers is elected and
meet at least three times a year to assist with neighborhood leadership, and
that a meeting inviting all members of the neighborhood be held as the steering
committee deems appropriate, but at least once a year. Neighborhood councils
shall submit the name of the chairperson to the mayor who will present the name
of the chairperson to the City council for ratification. (Ord. 22-25, 2022)
2.36.040: STAFF AND COUNCIL MEMBER LIAISONS; EMAIL NEWSLETTER:
The mayor and chair of the City Council will assign one council member or the
mayor to act as a liaison to each of the neighborhood councils. The city
neighborhood improvement manager shall be the city staff liaison to the
neighborhood councils. The city neighborhood improvement manager, mayor and
council member may attend neighborhood council meetings when invited by the
neighborhood council chair.
Neighborhood council chairpersons are encouraged to send email newsletters to
citizens residing within the boundaries of their respective neighborhood
council. The city will assist neighborhood council chairpersons with creating
and maintaining email lists of citizens residing within the boundaries of each
neighborhood council. (Ord. 22-25, 2022)
CHAPTER 2.38
NONPROFIT BUILDING AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2.38.010: Established
2.38.020: Findings
2.38.030: Filing
2.38.040: Members
2.38.050: City Administration; Powers
2.38.010: ESTABLISHED:
The nonprofit building authority continues in existence. Copies of the
ordinance establishing the authority may be obtained from the city recorder.
(1989 Code: prior code § 3-8-1)
2.38.020: FINDINGS:
It is found and determined by the municipal council that the creation of the
authority as a nonprofit corporation under the provisions of the Utah nonprofit
corporation and cooperative association act, Utah Code Annotated 16-6-2, 1953,
as amended ("the act"), is appropriate to the general welfare, order and
security of the city and is in the best interests of the citizens of the city.
(Prior code § 3-8-3)
2.38.030: FILING:
The mayor and other appropriate officers of the city are authorized and
directed to file on behalf of the city duplicate originals of the articles of
incorporation for the authority with the office of the secretary of state of
the state of Utah which articles of incorporation shall be in substantially the
form attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter as exhibit A, which may
be found on file in the office of the city recorder. (Prior code § 3-8-4)
2.38.040: MEMBERS:
The initial members of the governing board of the authority shall be the
members of the municipal council and the mayor of the city. (Prior code § 3-8-
5)
2.38.050: CITY ADMINISTRATION; POWERS:
City administration is authorized and directed to take all other action
necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provisions of this chapter. (Prior
code § 3-8-6)
CHAPTER 2.40
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2.40.010: Planning Commission Established
2.40.020: Members
2.40.030: Meetings
2.40.040: Procedures
2.40.050: Powers And Duties
2.40.010: PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a planning commission in the city for purposes of
reviewing applications for development as required by the land development
code. The planning commission shall carry out the growth and development
policies of the municipal council as expressed in the general plan and
implement programs of the plan. The commission shall review and recommend on
legislative matters related to planning and zoning. The commission shall have
such powers and duties as assigned by the mayor or council and in conformance
with Utah law. (Ord. 97-52 § 3, 1997)
2.40.020: MEMBERS:
   A.   Number, Term, Vacancy, Honorarium: The planning commission shall be
comprised of seven (7) persons.
      1.   Members shall be appointed or reappointed by the mayor for a term of
four (4) years every second year. Terms shall commence on July 1 of even
numbered years.
      2.   Any vacancy occurring on the commission by reason of death,
resignation, removal or disqualification shall be filled by the mayor with the
advice and consent of the municipal council for the unexpired term of such
member. Members may be reappointed without a limitation on the number of terms
of service.
      3.   Members of the planning commission shall serve with an honorarium as
approved within the city's budget process.
   B.   Planning Commission Representation On Other Boards Or Commissions:
      1.   One member of the planning commission, but not more than one, shall
be a member of the board of adjustment.
      2.   The chair, vice chair, or the chair's designee shall represent the
position of the commission on planning matters before the municipal council.
   C.   Removal From Office:
      1.   The planning commission by three-fifths (3/5) vote may recommend to
the mayor that a member of the commission be removed from office for:
         a.   Three (3) or more unexcused absences from regular committee
meetings during a calendar quarter.
         b.   Failure to attend four (4) or more consecutive regular committee
meetings.
         c.   Violation of committee policies and procedures.
      2.   A member of the planning commission may be removed from office by
the mayor in conformance with the provisions of Utah code section 10-2-1219.5.
   D.   Executive Secretary: The director of community development shall be the
executive secretary and staff to the planning commission. (Ord. 12-47, 2012:
Ord. 97-52 § 3, 1997)
2.40.030: MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall hold at least one regularly scheduled meeting each
calendar month, unless there are no items on the agenda.
      1.   The commission shall strive to schedule at least two (2) regular
meetings per month, unless the meetings would occur during a holiday period
that makes meeting attendance inconvenient for members of the public or project
proponents.
      2.   The commission shall establish a regular meeting schedule and define
the dates by which applications for review shall be submitted to its staff.
      3.   The commission may schedule continued or special public meetings,
public hearings or workshops as necessary to perform its assigned duties.
      4.   All meetings shall be held in locations accessible to the public
with appropriate public notice as required by Utah law. (Ord. 97-52 § 3, 1997)
2.40.040: PROCEDURES:
   A.   The commission shall adopt bylaws establishing its policies,
operations, and procedures. The bylaws shall be passed by majority vote (4
affirmative votes) of the commission and shall be presented to the mayor.
   B.   The mayor shall either accept the commission's bylaws, modify the
commission's bylaws, or reject the bylaws.
      1.   If the mayor accepts the commission's bylaws, an executive order
shall be executed implementing the bylaws.
      2.   If the mayor modifies the commission's bylaws, the modifications
shall be returned to the commission for its acceptance or comment. Following
receipt of the commission's acceptance or comments, the mayor may either
implement the modifications or make further changes. The mayor shall issue an
executive order to implement the modified bylaws.
      3.   If the mayor rejects the commission's bylaws, the commission chair
shall appoint a bylaws committee of two (2) commissioners to meet with the
mayor and prepare acceptable bylaws. (Ord. 97-52 § 3, 1997)
2.40.050: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   The general plan:
      1.   The commission shall be responsible for preparation for the plan,
its elements and amendments, and shall make a recommendation to the council
related to its adoption;
      2.   The commission shall be responsible for recommending to the council
programs for periodic updates and revisions or their general plan related work
programs. The commission shall submit such requests to the mayor for inclusion
in the city's budget process.
   B.   The land development code; zoning:
      1.   The commission shall recommend zoning ordinances, maps, and
amendments to the municipal council;
      2.   The commission shall review and approve, conditionally approve, or
deny applications for conditional use permits as provided in the zoning
ordinance;
      3.   The commission shall have the responsibility of the administration
of the zoning and development codes of the city as provided in this code and
state law.
   C.   The land development code; subdivisions:
      1.   The commission shall recommend subdivision ordinances, standards,
specifications, and regulations to the municipal council;
      2.   The commission shall review and approve, conditionally approve, or
deny applications for subdivisions as provided in the zoning ordinance;
      3.   The commission shall have the responsibility of the administration
of the subdivision and development codes of the city as provided in this code
and state law.
   D.   The commission shall advise the mayor and council as requested.
   E.   The commission shall exercise any other powers or duties as assigned by
the mayor or council. (Ord. 97-52 § 3, 1997)
CHAPTER 2.42
REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2.42.010: Purpose
2.42.020: Designated; Mayor's Role
2.42.030: Filing; Publication
2.42.040: Redevelopment Plans
2.42.050: South Main Redevelopment Plan; Participation And Relocation Rules
2.42.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a redevelopment agency pursuant to
the Utah neighborhood development act and to designate the municipal council
and the mayor as the redevelopment agency. (Prior code § 3-6-1)
2.42.020: DESIGNATED; MAYOR'S ROLE:
   A.   The municipal council of the city designates itself and the mayor as
the redevelopment agency of the city pursuant to the Utah neighborhood
development act, Utah Code Annotated 11-19-1 et seq., 1953, as amended,
complete with all powers and subject to all restrictions provided in the
neighborhood development act.
   B.   The mayor's role as a member of the redevelopment agency shall be the
same as that of a municipal council member except that the mayor shall have no
right to vote on any measure, resolution or action of any kind. However, all
measures, resolutions or actions passed by the municipal council sitting as the
redevelopment agency, shall thereafter be presented to the mayor for the
mayor's approval or disapproval as provided in Utah Code Annotated 10-3-1214,
1953.
   C.   The mayor or the mayor's designee shall be the chief administrative
officer for the redevelopment agency. (Prior code § 3-6-2)
2.42.030: FILING; PUBLICATION:
The city recorder is directed to cause the ordinance codified in this chapter
to be filed in his or her office and shall cause the publication of such
ordinance in a newspaper published in the city. (Prior code § 3-6-3)
2.42.040: REDEVELOPMENT PLANS:
The following redevelopment plans have been adopted by the city. Copies of the
plans may be obtained from the city recorder or the city planner:
   A.   Logan downtown;
   B.   Logan River;
   C.   Logan South Main;
   D.   Logan northwest. (Ord. 93-31 § 1, 1993: Ord. 91-66 § 1, 1991: Ord. 89-
11 § 1, 1989: 1989 Code: Ord. 84-13 § 1, 1984: prior code § 3-6-4)
2.42.050: SOUTH MAIN REDEVELOPMENT PLAN; PARTICIPATION AND RELOCATION RULES:
The attached South Main redevelopment participation and relocation rules are
adopted. Copies of the rules may be obtained from the city recorder or the city
planner. (Ord. 91-74 § 1, 1991)
CHAPTER 2.44
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
2.44.010: Purpose
2.44.020: Authority
2.44.030: Terms
2.44.040: Council Seats
2.44.050: Filing For Election
2.44.060: Primary Election
2.44.070: Final Election
2.44.080: General Election Laws
2.44.090: Recorder; Duties
2.44.100: Campaign Finance Disclosure
2.44.010: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide the method and manner for electing
members of the city council under the council-mayor form of municipal
government provided for in senate bill 179, chapter 33, laws of Utah, 1975,
which form of government was adopted and approved by the voters of Logan City
Corporation in a special municipal election held July 1, 1975. (Ord. 08-83 § 1,
2008)
2.44.020: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to sections 4 and 6 of the optional forms of
municipal government act, chapter 33, laws of Utah, 1975. (Ord. 08-83 § 1,
2008)
2.44.030: TERMS:
On the Tuesday following the first Monday in November 1975, and quadrennially
thereafter, there shall be elected at large three (3) council members who shall
serve for terms of four (4) years. There shall also be elected at large two (2)
council members who shall serve for terms of two (2) years. On the Tuesday
following the first Monday of November in 1977, and quadrennially thereafter,
there shall be elected at large two (2) council members and a mayor who shall
serve for terms of four (4) years. (Ord. 08-83 § 1, 2008)
2.44.040: COUNCIL SEATS:
   A.   The council seats for the five (5) members of the municipal council in
the city shall be numbered one to five (5) as follows:
      1.   Laraine Swenson;
      2.   Herm Olsen;
      3.   Jay A. Monson;
      4.   Dean W. Quayle;
      5.   Holly H. Daines. (Ord. 10-13 § 1, 2010)
2.44.050: FILING FOR ELECTION:
After the effective date hereof, whenever seats shall be up for election, those
desiring to file therefor, whether incumbent or challenger, shall file at large
for any available seat. (Ord. 08-83 § 1, 2008)
2.44.060: PRIMARY ELECTION:
In the primary election, the number of candidates equal to twice the available
seats that receive the highest vote totals shall be the only candidates whose
names shall be placed on the ballot in the final election. The method of
election shall continue to be at large, and the voters shall vote for as many
candidates as are to be elected in that particular election. (Ord. 08-83 § 1,
2008)
2.44.070: FINAL ELECTION:
The ballot in the final election and the manner of holding the election shall
be substantially the same as in the primary election. The available seats shall
be filled in order of candidate with highest vote total filling the lowest
numbered available seat. (Ord. 08-83 § 1, 2008)
2.44.080: GENERAL ELECTION LAWS:
Except as is otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the general
election laws of the state applicable to cities of the second class shall apply
to primary and general municipal elections conducted in this city. (Ord. 08-83
§ 1, 2008)
2.44.090: RECORDER; DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the city recorder to carry out the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 08-83 § 1, 2008)
2.44.100: CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE:
In compliance with section 10-3-208, Utah Code Annotated, all candidates for
elective municipal office shall comply with the following campaign disclosure
requirements:
   A.   Definitions:
   REPORTING DATE:
      1.   Ten (10) days before a general election, for a campaign finance
statement required to be filed no later than seven (7) days before a general
election; and
      2.   The day of filing, for a campaign finance statement required to be
filed no later than thirty (30) days after a primary or general election.
      3.   "Reporting date" does not mean filing date.
   REPORTING LIMIT: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Statement:
      1.   a. Each candidate for office who is not eliminated at a primary
election shall file with the city recorder a campaign finance statement:
            (1)   No later than seven (7) days before the date of general
election; and
            (2)   No later than thirty (30) days after the date of general
election.
         b.   Each candidate for office who is eliminated at a primary election
shall file with the city recorder a campaign finance statement no later than
thirty (30) days after the date of the primary election.
      2.   Each campaign finance statement under subsection B1 of this section
shall:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection B2b of this section:
            (1)   Report all of the candidate's itemized and total:
               (A)   Campaign contributions, including in-kind and other
nonmonetary contributions, received before the close of the reporting date; and
               (B)   Campaign expenditures made through the close of the
reporting date; and
            (2)   Identify:
               (A)   For each contribution that exceeds the reporting limit,
the amount of the contribution and the name of the donor;
               (B)   The aggregate total of all contributions that individually
do not exceed the reporting limit; and
               (C)   For each campaign expenditure, the amount of the
expenditure and the name of the recipient of the expenditure; or
         b.   Report the total amount of all campaign contributions and
expenditures if the candidate receives five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less
in campaign contributions and spends five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less on
the candidate's campaign.
   C.   Notification: The city recorder shall, at the time the candidate for
office files a declaration of candidacy and again fourteen (14) days before the
general election, notify the candidate in writing of:
      1.   The provisions of statute or ordinance governing the disclosure of
campaign contributions and expenditures;
      2.   The dates when the candidate's campaign finance statement is
required to be filed; and
      3.   The penalties that apply for failure to file a timely campaign
finance statement, including the statutory provision that requires removal of
the candidate's name from the ballot for failure to file the required campaign
finance statement when required.
   D.   Statements Available For Public Inspection: The city recorder shall
make each campaign finance statement filed by a candidate available for public
inspection and copying no later than one business day after the statement is
filed.
   E.   Failure To File:
      1.   If a candidate fails to file a campaign finance statement before the
general election by the deadline specified in subsection B1a(1) of this
section, the city recorder:
         a.   Shall:
            (1)   If practicable, remove the candidate's name from the ballot
by blacking out the candidate's name before the ballots are delivered to
voters; or
            (2)   If removing the candidate's name from the ballot is not
practicable, inform the voters by any practicable method that the candidate has
been disqualified and that votes cast for the candidate will not be counted;
and
         b.   May not count any votes for that candidate.
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection E1 of this section, a candidate who files
a campaign finance statement seven (7) days before a general election is not
disqualified if:
         a.   The statement details accurately and completely the information
required under subsection B2 of this section, except for inadvertent omissions
or insignificant errors or inaccuracies; and
         b.   The omissions, errors, or inaccuracies are corrected in an
amended report or in the next scheduled report.
   F.   Time Limit: A campaign finance statement required under this section is
considered filed if it is received in the city recorder's office by five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the date that it is due.
   G.   Civil Action:
      1.   A private party in interest may bring a civil action in district
court to enforce the provisions of this section or an ordinance adopted under
this section.
      2.   In a civil action under subsection G1 of this section, the court may
award costs and attorney fees to the prevailing party. (Ord. 07-50 § 1, 2007:
Ord. 05-26 §§ 1, 2, 2005: Ord. 95-37 § 1, 1995)
CHAPTER 2.46
CITY REAL ESTATE
SECTION:
2.46.010: Recording Deeds
2.46.020: City Engineer; Record Keeping Duties
2.46.030: City Recorder And City Treasurer To Notify City Engineer
2.46.040: Inventory Of Real Property
2.46.050: Disposition Of Real Property
2.46.010: RECORDING DEEDS:
Whenever any interest in real property is conveyed to the city, the deed or
other instrument of conveyance shall immediately be delivered to the city
recorder who shall forthwith cause the same to be recorded in the office of the
county recorder of the county in which the real property is situated. After
such deed or other instrument has been so recorded, it shall also be recorded
in the records of the city engineer and shall thereafter be deposited with the
city recorder. (Prior code § 1-6-1)
2.46.020: CITY ENGINEER; RECORD KEEPING DUTIES:
   A.   Whenever any interest in real property is transferred by the city, the
deed or other instrument of transfer shall be recorded at length in the office
of the city engineer before being delivered to the transferee. If it shall be
impracticable to record the deed or other instrument before delivery, a true
copy thereof shall be immediately furnished the city engineer who shall record
the same.
   B.   The city engineer shall keep a complete, accurate and properly indexed
record of all transfers of real estate to or from the city and of all other
transactions which affect the title of real estate belonging to the city.
(Prior code §§ 1-6-2, 1-6-3)
2.46.030: CITY RECORDER AND CITY TREASURER TO NOTIFY CITY ENGINEER:
The city recorder and the city treasurer shall notify the city engineer of all
transactions coming to their attention which pertain to the purchase, sale,
transfer, lease or encumbrance of any real estate in which the city has an
interest. (Amended during 11/95 supplement: prior code § 1-6-4)
2.46.040: INVENTORY OF REAL PROPERTY:
The city engineer shall deliver to the mayor and city auditor during June of
each year a revised list of all real estate belonging to the city, together
with an estimate of the current value of the several parcels thereof. (Prior
code § 1-6-5)
2.46.050: DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   No real estate, except cemetery lots, may be sold, traded or purchased
by the executive branch of city government unless and until the proposed sale,
trade or purchase is presented to the municipal council for its information and
suggestions, if any.
   B.   The executive branch of government shall not lease any city real
property for a term more than five (5) years unless and until the proposed
lease is presented to the municipal council for its information and
suggestions, if any.
   C.   The city may dispose of no significant parcel of real property unless
and until the proposed disposition is presented at a reasonably noticed public
hearing allowing for public comment.
      1.   "Significant parcel of real property" is defined as any parcel owned
by the city, one acre or larger in size or valued over one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00), excluding property owned by the city or the
redevelopment agency that is located in a redevelopment area and which is being
disposed of as part of an economic incentive that has been approved by the
municipal council and/or the redevelopment agency.
      2.   Reasonable notice for the purposes of this section shall be
published notice in the local newspaper at least once a week for two (2)
consecutive weeks with the first published notice being at least fourteen (14)
days before the public hearing. (Ord. 03-99 § 1, 2003: prior code § 1-6-6)
CHAPTER 2.48
SURPLUS PROPERTY
SECTION:
2.48.010: Disposition Of Public Property
2.48.020: Definition
2.48.030: Surplus Property Criteria
2.48.040: Sale Of Property
2.48.050: Trade Of Real Property
2.48.060: Lease Of Public Property
2.48.010: DISPOSITION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Pursuant to the provisions of the laws of the state, there is adopted and
established a system for disposition of public property for the city which
shall be based upon the principles set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 14-28,
2014)
2.48.020: DEFINITION:
"Public property" as defined in this chapter means any property or equity
interest in real or personal property held or owned by the city except for
cemetery lots and mortgages taken or released to secure the installation of
subdivision improvements. (Ord. 14-28, 2014)
2.48.030: SURPLUS PROPERTY CRITERIA:
In determining whether any property shall be deemed surplus, the purchasing
agent or mayor shall find one of the following:
   A.   The city has or soon will have no practical, efficient or appropriate
use for the property in its current department, and may not have such a use for
the property in the near future.
   B.   The purpose served by the property can be accomplished by use of a
better, less costly or more efficient alternative.
   C.   The purpose served by the property or its use no longer exists as
determined by a change of policy evidenced by an ordinance or resolution of the
municipal council.
   D.   The property is damaged, worn out or otherwise inoperable and the cost
of repairing the same is unwise or impractical. (Ord. 14-28, 2014)
2.48.040: SALE OF PROPERTY:
   A.   If a department director, division manager or other authorized city
representative has city property under his or her control or supervision which
such city representative deems surplus to her or his use, such representative
shall notify the purchasing agent who shall in turn notify interested
directors, managers or other city representatives and give them an opportunity
to acquire the same. If any such persons desire to acquire and use the proposed
surplus property, unless the mayor disagrees, the purchasing agent shall see to
the proper and legal transfer of the property to the requesting department
director, division manager or other authorized representative. If no requests
for use of proposed surplus personal property are received, the purchasing
agent, with the consent of the mayor, may then proceed to trade in, sell by
public auction (or other public method), dispose of, or sell the same as scrap
on terms the purchasing agent deems to be in the best interests of the city.
   B.   Surplus personal property may be sold to another governmental or not
for profit agency directly (without public auction) with the approval of the
mayor and purchasing agent for estimated fair market value. Estimated fair
market value will be determined by a commercially accepted method. Surplus
personal property may be donated to any party after following the applicable
Utah state codes.
   C.   If the proposed surplus property is real property notice of the
proposal to declare the same surplus shall additionally be given to all
municipal council members and to the city planner, city attorney and director
of public works. The planner and city attorney and director of public works
shall form a committee to consider whether they deem the property surplus.
After considering any requests to use the proposed surplus real property and
any recommendations from the committee, if the mayor proposes to sell the real
property as surplus, the mayor shall so notify the municipal council of the
decision and invite them to make suggestions.
   D.   No sooner than twenty (20) days following the mayor's notice to the
municipal council and after considering their suggestions, if any, the mayor
may either declare the real property not to be surplus and order that it not be
sold or the mayor may declare it surplus and then proceed to sell the same by
public auction or through other acceptable public bidding procedures as
approved by the mayor. However, real property deemed to be surplus shall not be
sold for less than its fair market value as determined by an appraisal, unless
there is specific authorization by the municipal council for sale at a lesser
amount. (Ord. 14-28, 2014)
2.48.050: TRADE OF REAL PROPERTY:
If the mayor determines that the real property declared surplus under this
section could be sold for a greater consideration or benefit to the city if
something other than cash were taken as consideration, then the mayor may
invite prospective purchasers to tender consideration either cash or in-kind or
a combination of both. Upon receipt of a bid tendering consideration in-kind
and if the mayor considers such bid to be the best offer made, prior to
accepting such a bid the mayor shall make a report setting forth her or his
reasons for thinking the in-kind bid has the most value to the city. This
report shall be made to the council at a regular council meeting and the report
shall remain open to public inspection. Before accepting any bid containing in-
kind consideration, adequate appraisals must have been made by two (2)
qualified appraisers. If the mayor finds that the bid containing the in-kind
consideration has more value or benefit to the city than any other bid
submitted, the mayor may accept the bid containing in-kind consideration.
However, real property deemed to be surplus should not be traded unless the
property received is of equivalent value as determined by an appraisal unless
there is an express authorization by the municipal council for trading of
property of a lesser value. (Ord. 14-28, 2014)
2.48.060: LEASE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
The mayor may authorize the lease or sublease of any property, including real
property, under such terms and conditions as the mayor may deem desirable, fair
and appropriate, either by use of negotiations or bidding considering intended
land use and equivalent property tax value, and the best interest of the city.
Leases of real property shall not be granted for a period of over five (5)
years. Leases for a period exceeding five (5) years shall be approved by the
municipal council as a policy matter. (Ord. 14-28, 2014)
CHAPTER 2.50
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
(Rep. by Ord. 12-32, 2012)
CHAPTER 2.52
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
Article I. Civil Service Law And Regulation
2.52.010: State Laws
2.52.020: Civil Service Commission; Number; Term; Vacancies
2.52.030: Qualifications Of Commissioners; Salary; Removal
Article II. Employee Appeals Board
2.52.040: Created; Members; Duties
2.52.050: Members; Terms
2.52.060: Standard Of Review
Article III. Wage And Salary Board
   (Rep. by Ord. 04-89 § 3, 2004)
Article IV. Retirement
2.52.140: State System Adopted
Article V. Workers' Compensation Insurance Reserve Fund
2.52.150: Established
2.52.160: Purpose
2.52.170: Investments
Article VI. Police Reserve Corps
2.52.180: Established
2.52.190: Control Vested In Chief Of Police
Article VII. Citizens' Compensation Advisory Committee
2.52.200: Name And Purpose
2.52.210: Appointment Of Members To The Committee
2.52.220: Members Of The Committee Are Volunteers
2.52.230: Terms Of The Committee Members
2.52.240: Organization Of The Committee
2.52.250: Duties Of The Committee
2.52.260: Meetings
2.52.270: Staff Support From The City Staff
2.52.280: Committee Actions Shall Not Bind The Mayor Or City Council
ARTICLE I. CIVIL SERVICE LAW AND REGULATION
2.52.010: STATE LAWS:
Administration of the Civil Service Commission of the City shall be governed by
the applicable State law found in Utah Code Annotated 10-3-1001 to 10-3-1013,
1953, as amended. (Prior Code § 11-2-1)
2.52.020: CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION; NUMBER; TERM; VACANCIES:
In the City there shall be a Civil Service Commission, consisting of three (3)
members appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Municipal
Council. Their term of office shall be six (6) years, but they shall be
appointed so that the term of office of one member shall expire on June 30 of
each even numbered year. If a vacancy occurs in the Civil Service Commission,
it shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the Municipal Council for the unexpired term. (Prior Code § 11-2-2)
2.52.030: QUALIFICATIONS OF COMMISSIONERS; SALARY; REMOVAL:
Not more than two (2) members of the Civil Service Commission shall at any one
time be of the same political party. No member of the Civil Service Commission
shall during his or her tenure of office hold any other public office. Each
member shall receive twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each meeting of the
commission which such member shall attend, but shall not receive more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) in any one month. In case of misconduct, inability or
wilful neglect in the performance of the duties of the office of any member,
the member may be removed from office by the Mayor, but the member shall, if
such member so desires, have opportunity to be heard in defense. (Prior Code §
11-2-3)
ARTICLE II. EMPLOYEE APPEALS BOARD
2.52.040: CREATED; MEMBERS; DUTIES:
An Appeals Board consisting of five (5) members is created. Three (3) of the
members shall be chosen by popular ballot by the City employees. Statutory
officers, division managers, department heads, and assistant department heads
are not eligible to be selected to the Appeals Board by the popular ballot. The
other two (2) members shall be appointed by the Mayor and may include any City
employee.
The duties of the Appeals Board shall be to review on appeal the discharge;
suspension without pay for more than two (2) days; or involuntary transfer to a
position with less remuneration of City officers or employees pursuant to the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1106, 1953. The Appeals Board
may not review or decide any other personnel matters, including the discharge
or transfer of employees to positions with less remuneration if the discharge
or transfer is the result of a layoff, reorganization, or other non-
disciplinary reason.
The Appeals Board does not have jurisdiction to hear an appeal filed by: an
employee appointed by the Mayor; an employee in an at-will position; a seasonal
or temporary employee; a probationary employee; an employee who has
acknowledged in writing that the employee's employment status is appointed or
at- will; or an employee covered under the Civil Service Commission.
The Appeals Board shall issue a written decision in response to an employee
appeal filed under this article. A decision is final when it is signed and
dated by the Appeals Board and certified with the City Recorder. The City
Recorder shall distribute the certified decision to the employee or the
employee's counsel, the Human Resources Director, the City Attorney, and the
appropriate department head. (Ord. 19-01, 2019)
2.52.050: MEMBERS; TERMS:
Each member of the Appeals Board shall serve a term as prescribed in City
policy, except that the Mayor's appointees and one of the regular City
employees' appointees shall initially serve a one year term so as to stagger
the terms of the Appeals Board members, with some members being newly appointed
every year. (Ord. 19-01, 2019)
2.52.060: STANDARD OF REVIEW:
A finding of fact made by the City in the context of the discharge, suspension
without pay for more than two (2) days or two (2) shifts, or involuntary
transfer with less remuneration of an officer or employee shall be upheld on
appeal unless it is not supported by substantial evidence. The discipline of
the employee selected by the City shall be upheld on appeal unless the Appeals
Board finds that the City abused its discretion. (Ord. 17-28, 2017)
ARTICLE III. WAGE AND SALARY BOARD
   (Rep. by Ord. 04-89 § 3, 2004)
ARTICLE IV. RETIREMENT
2.52.140: STATE SYSTEM ADOPTED:
City employees, except police officers and firefighters, shall be covered by
the Utah State retirement system pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code
Annotated 49-2-204 and the agreement between the City and the Utah State
Retirement Board. City police officers and firefighters are covered by the
retirement provisions of the Pension Law of the State for police officers and
firefighters. (1989 Code: Prior Code § 11-3-1)
ARTICLE V. WORKERS' COMPENSATION INSURANCE RESERVE FUND
2.52.150: ESTABLISHED:
A Workers' Compensation Insurance Reserve Fund is created with an authorization
level of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00). The Reserve Fund
shall be funded by an appropriation from each of the funds of the City budget
having employees assigned to them, which funding shall continue by
appropriations through the regular budgetary process from year to year. (Prior
Code § 11-5-1(a))
2.52.160: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Workers' Compensation Insurance Reserve Fund is to provide a
working reserve from which all workers' compensation related payments may be
made, including, but not limited to, insurance premiums, administrative costs,
medical bills, life insurance or other miscellaneous payments for employees
injured on the job, whether the City chooses to be self-insured, purchases
workers' compensation insurance or participates in some other available program
to meet its workers' compensation obligations. (Prior Code § 11-5-1(b))
2.52.170: INVESTMENTS:
Portions of the Reserve Fund not needed for payment of claims shall be
prudently invested according to guidelines of the State Money Management Act of
1974. (Prior Code § 11-5-1(c))
ARTICLE VI. POLICE RESERVE CORPS
2.52.180: ESTABLISHED:
A police reserve corps is established as a voluntary organization composed of
persons appointed by the Chief of Police. Such persons may serve gratuitously
when ordered by the Chief of Police or any of the Chief's authorized staff
officers, in assisting regular officers of the Police Department in the
performance of law enforcement functions in order to train such personnel for
that law enforcement service, which may be required in the event of emergencies
or disasters. (Prior Code § 11-1-1)
2.52.190: CONTROL VESTED IN CHIEF OF POLICE:
The control of the police reserve corps shall be vested in the Chief of Police
who shall adopt such rules and regulations as are necessary for the proper
supervision, regulation and operation of the police reserve corps. (Prior Code
§ 11-1-2)
ARTICLE VII. CITIZENS' COMPENSATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
2.52.200: NAME AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create the citizens' compensation advisory
committee (the "committee") and provide for its duties and responsibilities in
making recommendations, to the city council, regarding the compensation of the
city's elected officials and employees. (Ord. 07-87 § 1, 2007)
2.52.210: APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE COMMITTEE:
   A.   The committee shall be comprised of the following:
      1.   Seven (7) members appointed by the mayor and ratified by the city
council from a list of nominees submitted by the city council.
      2.   One city council member who shall serve as a nonvoting liaison.
      3.   All committee members shall be residents of the city of Logan.
   B.   In appointing the members to the committee, the city council shall give
consideration to achieving representation from a broad cross section within the
Logan City community of occupational, professional, employee and management
interests including persons from academia, business, community councils, and
organized labor, and persons with compensation expertise. No member of the
committee shall be deemed by this article an employee of the city. (Ord. 07-87
§ 1, 2007)
2.52.220: MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE ARE VOLUNTEERS:
Members of the committee shall perform their services on the committee without
pay or other compensation except expenses actually and reasonably incurred as
approved by the city council. Members shall be deemed volunteers as defined in
section 67-20-1 et seq., Utah Code Annotated and as such shall be immune from
any liability with respect to any decision and action taken in the performance
of their duties and responsibilities on the committee as provided by section
63-30b-1 et seq., of the Utah Code Annotated. (Ord. 07-87 § 1, 2007)
2.52.230: TERMS OF THE COMMITTEE MEMBERS:
Three (3) of the initial members of the committee shall serve for two (2)
years. All other initial appointees shall serve for four (4) year terms.
Persons appointed thereafter to the committee shall serve four (4) year terms.
(Ord. 07-87 § 1, 2007)
2.52.240: ORGANIZATION OF THE COMMITTEE:
The committee shall select a chair and a vice chair at its first meeting. Any
vacancy on the committee shall be filled for the unexpired term of the vacated
member in the same manner that the vacated member was appointed. Four (4)
members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. The committee shall take no
action or make any determination without the concurrence of the majority of its
members being present. (Ord. 07-87 § 1, 2007)
2.52.250: DUTIES OF THE COMMITTEE:
With the purpose of evaluating the compensation levels of the city's elected
officials and employees and making recommendations to city council, the
committee shall:
   A.   Determine a market or markets, comprised of public and private
employers at the local, state, and (if necessary) regional level, which, if
surveyed, would provide reliable, competitive compensation comparisons to the
pay practice of the city. The committee shall use a variety of resources for
comparisons, which may include other compensation studies, such as those
developed by Utah department of work force services, the employers' council,
and the Utah local government compensation group (formerly known as Wasatch
compensation group), etc.;
   B.   Conduct a survey of comparable employers to determine wages and
benefits paid by those employers to their employees;
   C.   Analyze the survey data;
   D.   Recommend the appropriate competitive position of city pay levels
relative to the central tendency of surveyed employers' compensation studies;
   E.   Evaluate the compensation of the city's elected officials and employees
relative to the survey data;
   F.   Conduct other studies as the committee deems necessary to perform its
duties and formulate the recommendations required herein;
   G.   On or before February 1 of each fiscal year, prepare and submit a
written report to the mayor and the city council containing the following:
      1.   A list of public and private employers the committee utilized in its
study;
      2.   A list of other compensation surveys and/or instruments the
committee utilized in its study;
      3.   A summary of the committee's findings based on the survey data;
      4.   Recommendations based on the survey data, of the appropriate
competitive position for the city relative to compensation practices of
comparable employers;
      5.   Recommendations regarding wages and benefits of the city's elected
officials and executive employees;
      6.   General recommendations regarding the wages and benefits of the
city's employees, e.g., base salary, benefits, incentives;
      7.   Recommendations regarding revisions, modifications or changes, if
any, that should be made to the compensation practices of the city;
   H.   Provide other advice and recommendations, or perform other studies
related to the compensation of the city's elected officials and employees as
may, from time to time, be requested by the city council or by the mayor.
   I.   Unless otherwise directed by the mayor and the city council, the
committee shall make no recommendations or studies regarding job
classifications, working conditions, grievance processes or other
noncompensation matters. (Ord. 07-87 § 1, 2007)
2.52.260: MEETINGS:
Meetings may be ordered by the majority of the committee, its chairperson, or
mayor or city council. Notice shall be provided as required in the open and
public meetings act, section 52-4-101 et seq., of the Utah Code Annotated, and
successor sections. The committee may close the meeting if allowed under
section 52-4-204 of the Utah Code Annotated, upon affirmative vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of the members of the committee in an open meeting for which
notice is given provided a quorum is present. The meeting shall be closed if
the discussions relate to records which are defined as protected or private
under the government records access and management act, section 63-2-201 et
seq., of the Utah Code Annotated or any ordinance adopted by the city council
pursuant to said act. (Ord. 07-87 § 1, 2007)
2.52.270: STAFF SUPPORT FROM THE CITY STAFF:
The city staff shall provide staff support to the committee to assist the
committee in the performance of its duties. (Ord. 07-87 § 1, 2007)
2.52.280: COMMITTEE ACTIONS SHALL NOT BIND THE MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL:
The recommendations of the committee shall not be deemed to bind the mayor and
the city council in their determination of compensation levels for their
employees. Nothing herein shall be construed to be a delegation of the mayor's
and the city council's responsibility and authority to establish the
compensation levels for their employees. (Ord. 07-87 § 1, 2007)
CHAPTER 2.54
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
(Rep. by Ord. 16-02, 2016)
CHAPTER 2.56
DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE
(Rep. by Ord. 12-47, 2012)
CHAPTER 2.58
BOARD OF APPEALS
(Rep. by Ord. 16-02, 2016)
CHAPTER 2.60
ADVISORY GUIDELINES FOR CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES
SECTION:
2.60.010: Purpose
2.60.020: Definitions
2.60.030: Guidelines
2.60.040: Analysis
2.60.050: Appeals
2.60.060: Limitations
2.60.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide advisory guidelines for the city to
assist the city in identifying actions that involve physical taking or exaction
of private real property that may have constitutional taking issues. (Ord. 03-
17 § 1, 2003)
2.60.020: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein:
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES: Actions involving the physical or regulatory
taking of private real property by the city that might require compensation to
a private real property owner under:
   A.   The fifth or fourteenth amendment of the constitution of the United
States;
   B.   Article I, section 22 of the Utah constitution; or
   C.   Any recent court rulings governing the physical or regulatory taking of
private real property by a governmental entity. (Ord. 03-17 § 1, 2003)
2.60.030: GUIDELINES:
The following guidelines shall be considered by the city when taking any action
that might result in the physical or regulatory taking of private real
property:
   A.   Identification: The city should review the following to determine and
identify whether a proposed governmental action raises constitutional taking
issues:
      1.   Does the action result in a permanent physical occupation of private
property?
      2.   Does the action require a property owner to dedicate property or
grant an easement to the city?
      3.   Does the action deprive the property owner of all economically
viable uses of the property?
      4.   Does the action have a severe impact on the property owner's
economic interest?
      5.   Does the action deny a fundamental attribute of ownership? (Ord. 03-
17 § 1, 2003)
2.60.040: ANALYSIS:
If the city determines that a governmental action involves constitutional
taking issues, the proposed action should be reviewed by the city to analyze
the possible taking and to determine the action to be taken. In reviewing the
proposed action, the following factors may be analyzed:
   A.   The effect the potential taking would have on the use or value of the
private property;
   B.   The likelihood that the action may result in a constitutional taking;
   C.   Any alternatives to the proposed action that would fulfill the city's
lawful objectives and reduce the risk of a constitutional taking;
   D.   The cost to the city for payment of compensation if a taking is
determined;
   E.   The governmental interest involved and its nexus to the potential
taking; and
   F.   If the action is roughly proportionate or reasonably related to the
impact of any proposed development. (Ord. 03-17 § 1, 2003)
2.60.050: APPEALS:
Any owner of private property whose interest in the property is subject to a
physical or regulatory taking by the city pursuant to a final and authoritative
decision or action of the city may appeal the city's decision or action by
filing a written notice of appeal and statement of the grounds for the appeal
in the city recorder's office within thirty (30) days from the date of the
city's decision or action. The mayor or his/her designee shall hear all
evidence regarding the appeal and render a decision and findings in writing
within fourteen (14) days from the date the appeal was filed. If the city fails
to hear and decide the appeal within fourteen (14) days, the city's decision or
action is presumed to be approved. (Ord. 03-17 § 1, 2003)
2.60.060: LIMITATIONS:
The guidelines set forth herein are advisory only and shall not be construed to
expand nor limit the scope of the city's liability for a constitutional taking.
The city shall have no legal liability to any person, firm or entity of any
nature whatsoever and a court may not impose liability upon the city for
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 03-17 § 1, 2003)
CHAPTER 2.62
EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION
SECTION:
2.62.010: Purpose
2.62.020: Administration
2.62.030: No Private Right Of Action; No Special Rights
2.62.040: Severability
2.62.050: Definitions
2.62.060: Exemptions
2.62.070: Unlawful Employment Practices
2.62.080: Unlawful Intimidation, Retaliation, And Coercion
2.62.090: Procedures For Filing Complaints
2.62.100: Investigation
2.62.110: Conciliation
2.62.120: Disposition Of A Complaint
2.62.130: Offenses And Penalties
2.62.010: PURPOSE:
Every individual in the city has the right to work and earn wages through
gainful employment. Discriminatory employment practices are detrimental because
they impede the social and economic progress of the city by preventing all of
the city's citizens from contributing to or fully participating in the
cultural, spiritual, social and commercial life of the community, which is
essential to the growth and vitality of the city's neighborhoods and
businesses. The Utah antidiscrimination act, Utah code section 34A-5-101 et
seq., addresses employment related discrimination based on race; color; sex;
pregnancy; childbirth, or pregnancy related conditions; religion; national
origin; age (if 40 years of age or older); and disability, but does not address
discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity.
The city has found that discrimination in employment on the basis of sexual
orientation and gender identity must be addressed. The denial or deprivation of
employment rights because of an individual's sexual orientation or gender
identity is detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the city's
citizens and damages the city's economic well being. The purpose of this
chapter is to provide a clear and comprehensive mandate for the prevention and
elimination of discrimination in employment in the city against individuals
based upon sexual orientation or gender identity and this chapter shall be
liberally construed to achieve that purpose. (Ord. 10-26 § 1, 2010)
2.62.020: ADMINISTRATION:
The mayor is responsible for administering and implementing this chapter. (Ord.
10-26 § 1, 2010)
2.62.030: NO PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION; NO SPECIAL RIGHTS:
This chapter does not create a private cause of action, nor does it create any
right or remedy that is the same or substantially equivalent to the remedies
provided under federal or state law. This chapter does not create any special
rights or privileges which would not be available to all of the city's citizens
because every person has a sexual orientation and a gender identity. (Ord. 10-
26 § 1, 2010)
2.62.040: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, paragraph, term, definition or provision of this
chapter is for any reason determined to be illegal, invalid, superseded by
other authority or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction or
by any state or federal regulatory authority having jurisdiction thereof, such
portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision and
such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other section,
sentence, paragraph, term, definition or provision of this chapter, all of
which will remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 10-26 § 1, 2010)
2.62.050: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter:
ADMINISTRATOR: The person designated by the mayor to receive, investigate, and
conciliate complaints under this chapter and includes the administrator's
designated representatives.
CITY: The city of Logan, Utah.
CITY ATTORNEY: The city's duly appointed city attorney.
COMPLAINANT: A person, including the administrator, who files a complaint under
this chapter.
CONCILIATION: The attempted resolution of issues raised in a complaint filed
under this chapter, or raised in the investigation of the complaint, through
informal negotiations involving the complainant, the respondent, and the
administrator.
CONCILIATION AGREEMENT: A written agreement setting forth the resolution of
issues by conciliation under this chapter.
DISCRIMINATION: Any direct or indirect exclusion, distinction, segregation,
limitation, refusal, denial, or other differentiation in the treatment of a
person because of a person's actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender
identity or because of a person's association with any such person.
Discrimination shall not be interpreted to require or to grant or accord
preferential treatment to any person because of that person's sexual
orientation or gender identity.
EMPLOYEE: Any individual applying with or employed by an employer. The term
does not include an elected official.
EMPLOYER: Any person employing fifteen (15) or more employees in the city for
each working day in each of twenty (20) or more calendar weeks in the current
or preceding calendar year, and includes any agent of such a person.
EMPLOYMENT AGENCY: Any person, and any agent of a person, undertaking to
procure employees or opportunities to work for any other person in the city or
holding itself out to be equipped to procure employees or opportunities to work
for any other person in the city.
GENDER IDENTITY: A person's actual or perceived gender identity, appearance,
mannerisms, or other characteristics of an individual with or without regard to
the person's sex at birth.
LABOR ORGANIZATION: Any organization that exists for the purpose in whole or in
part of collective dealing with employers concerning grievances, terms or
conditions of employment; or other mutual aid or protection in connection with
employment.
MAYOR: The duly elected or appointed and qualified mayor of the city of Logan.
OTHERWISE QUALIFIED: A person who possesses the following as required by an
employer for any particular job, job classification, or position:
   A.   Education;
   B.   Training;
   C.   Ability;
   D.   Moral character;
   E.   Integrity;
   F.   Disposition to work;
   G.   Adherence to reasonable rules and regulations; and
   H.   Other job related qualifications required by an employer.
PERSON: One or more individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations,
legal representatives, trusts or trustees, receivers and the city.
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION: A religious corporation, association, educational
institution, society, trust or any entity or association which is a wholly
owned or controlled subsidiary or agency of any religious corporation,
association, society, trust or corporation sole.
RESPONDENT: A person identified in a complaint as having committed an unlawful
practice under this chapter.
SEXUAL ORIENTATION: A person's actual or perceived orientation as heterosexual,
homosexual, or bisexual.
UNLAWFUL PRACTICE: A discriminatory act or practice relating to employment that
is prohibited under this chapter. (Ord. 10-26 § 1, 2010)
2.62.060: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter does not apply to:
   A.   A religious organization;
   B.   An expressive association whose employment of a person protected by
this chapter would significantly burden the association's rights of expressive
association under Boy Scouts of America v. Dale, 530 U.S. 640 (2000); the
United States government, any of its departments or agencies, or any
corporation wholly owned by it; or
   C.   The United States government, any of its departments or agencies, or
any corporation wholly owned by it; or the state of Utah or any of its
departments, agencies, or political subdivisions except for the city. (Ord. 10-
26 § 1, 2010)
2.62.070: UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES:
   A.   Employers: An employer may not refuse to hire, promote, discharge,
demote, or terminate any person, and may not retaliate against, harass, or
discriminate in matters of compensation or in terms, privileges, and conditions
of employment against any person otherwise qualified because of a person's
sexual orientation or gender identity.
   B.   Employment Agencies: An employment agency may not refuse to list and
properly classify for employment, or refuse to refer a person for employment,
in a known available job for which the person is otherwise qualified because of
a person's sexual orientation or gender identity.
   C.   Labor Organizations: A labor organization may not exclude any person
otherwise qualified from full membership rights in the labor organization,
expel the person from membership in the labor organization, or otherwise
discriminate against or harass any of the labor organization's members in full
employment of work opportunity, or representation, because of a person's sexual
orientation or gender identity.
   D.   Training Programs: An employer, labor organization, joint
apprenticeship committee, or vocational school, providing, coordinating, or
controlling apprenticeship programs, or providing, coordinating, or controlling
on the job training programs, instruction, training, or retraining programs may
not deny to, or withhold from, any qualified person, the right to be admitted
to, or participate in any apprenticeship training program, on the job training
program, or other occupational instruction, training or retraining program
because of a person's sexual orientation or gender identity.
   E.   Notices And Advertisements: Unless based upon a bona fide occupational
qualification, or required by and given to an agency of government for security
reasons, an employer, employment agency, or labor organization may not print,
or circulate, or cause to be printed or circulated, any statement,
advertisement, or publication, use any form of application for employment or
membership, or make any inquiry in connection with prospective employment or
membership that expresses, either directly or indirectly any limitation,
specification, or discrimination because of a person's sexual orientation or
gender identity.
      It is unlawful for a joint labor-management committee controlling
apprenticeship or other training or retraining (including on the job training
programs) to print or publish, or cause to be printed or published, any notice
or advertisement relating to admission to, or employment in, any program
established to provide apprenticeship or other training by the joint labor-
management committee that indicates any preference, limitation, specification,
or discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity.
      Nothing in this chapter prohibits a notice or advertisement from
indicating a preference, limitation, specification, or discrimination based on
sexual orientation or gender identity when sexual orientation or gender
identity is a bona fide occupational qualification for employment.
   F.   No Preferential Treatment: Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted
to require any employer, employment agency, labor organization, vocational
school, joint labor-management committee, or apprenticeship program subject to
this chapter to grant preferential treatment to any person because of the
person's sexual orientation or gender identity on account of an imbalance which
may exist with respect to the total number or percentage of persons of any
sexual orientation or gender identity employed by any employer, referred or
classified for employment by an employment agency or labor organization,
admitted to membership or classified by any labor organization, or admitted to
or employed in, any apprenticeship or other training program, in comparison
with the total number or percentage of persons of that sexual orientation or
gender identity available in the city's available work force. (Ord. 10-26 § 1,
2010)
2.62.080: UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION, RETALIATION, AND COERCION:
It is unlawful for any person to discriminate against, harass, threaten, harm,
damage, or otherwise penalize another person for opposing an unlawful practice,
for filing a complaint, or for testifying, assisting, or participating in any
manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter. (Ord.
10-26 § 1, 2010)
2.62.090: PROCEDURES FOR FILING COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by an unlawful employment
practice subject to the city's jurisdiction under this chapter may file a
complaint with the administrator. A complaint may also be filed by the
administrator if the administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has committed an unlawful employment practice. A complaint must be filed
within one hundred eighty (180) calendar days after an alleged unlawful
employment practice has occurred.
   B.   A complaint must be in writing on a form provided by the administrator,
made under oath or affirmation, and contain the following information:
      1.   The complainant's name, address, and signature;
      2.   The date the alleged unlawful employment practice occurred;
      3.   A statement of the facts upon which the allegation of an unlawful
employment practice is based; and
      4.   The respondent's name and address.
   C.   Promptly after the filing of a complaint, the administrator shall:
      1.   Provide the respondent named in the complaint written notice that a
complaint alleging the commission of an unlawful employment practice has been
filed against the respondent;
      2.   Furnish a copy of the complaint to the respondent; and
      3.   Advise the respondent of the respondent's procedural rights and
obligations, including the right to file a written, signed, and verified
informal answer to the complaint within fifteen (15) days after service of
notice of the complaint.
   D.   Not later than the fifteenth day after service of the notice and copy
of the complaint, a respondent may file an answer to the complaint. The answer
must be in writing, made under oath or affirmation, and contain the following
information:
      1.   The respondent's name, address, telephone number, and signature of
the respondent or the respondent's attorney, if any; and
      2.   A concise statement of facts in response to the allegations in the
complaint, including facts of any defense or exception. (Ord. 10-26 § 1, 2010)
2.62.100: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Upon the filing of a complaint, the administrator shall commence an
investigation to determine the facts behind the complaint and whether there is
reasonable cause to believe the respondent committed an unlawful employment
practice, except that no investigation may commence if, after reviewing the
allegations of the complaint, the administrator determines that the complaint
does not come within the scope of this chapter. Upon determining that a
particular complaint does not come within the scope of this chapter, the
administrator shall dismiss the complaint, notify the complainant and
respondent and take no further action.
   B.   In connection with any investigation of a complaint filed under this
chapter, the administrator shall seek the voluntary cooperation of any person
to:
      1.   Obtain access to premises, records, documents, individuals, and any
other possible source of information;
      2.   Examine, record, and copy necessary materials; and
      3.   Take and record testimony or statements of any person reasonably
necessary for the furtherance of the investigation.
   C.   The administrator may request the city attorney to issue an executive
branch subpoena or subpoena duces tecum to compel the attendance of a witness
or the production of relevant materials or documents pursuant to Utah code
section 10-3-610, as amended, and the Utah rules of civil procedure.
   D.   The administrator may dismiss a complaint during the investigation if
the administrator determines that:
      1.   The complaint was not filed within the required time period;
      2.   The location of the alleged unlawful employment practice is not
within the city's jurisdiction;
      3.   The employer does not employ a sufficient number of employees in the
city to meet this chapter's jurisdictional requirements;
      4.   The alleged unlawful employment practice is not a violation of this
chapter;
      5.   The complainant refuses to cooperate with the administrator in the
investigation of the complaint or enforcement of an executed conciliation
agreement;
      6.   The complainant cannot be located after the administrator has
performed a reasonable search; or
      7.   A conciliation agreement has been executed by the complainant and
respondent. (Ord. 10-26 § 1, 2010)
2.62.110: CONCILIATION:
   A.   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of the
notice of the complaint to the respondent, the administrator shall, if the
respondent appears to have committed an unlawful employment practice, attempt
to conciliate the complaint. In conciliating a complaint, the administrator
shall try to achieve a just resolution and obtain assurances that the
respondent will satisfactorily remedy any violation of the complainant's rights
and take action to ensure the elimination of both present and future unlawful
employment practices. A conciliation agreement may include: sensitivity
training for the respondent and/or the respondent's employees; the respondent's
agreement to adopt and pursue a policy of nondiscrimination in employment
practices; and the respondent's agreement to not engage in discriminatory
practices in the future.
   B.   A conciliation agreement executed under this section must be in writing
in a form approved by the city attorney and must be signed and verified by the
respondent and the complainant, subject to approval of the administrator who
shall indicate approval by signing the agreement.
   C.   If a respondent voluntarily enters into a conciliation agreement, the
administrator shall immediately dismiss the complaint. (Ord. 10-26 § 1, 2010)
2.62.120: DISPOSITION OF A COMPLAINT:
   A.   If, upon completion of an investigation of a complaint, the
administrator determines that an unlawful employment practice has occurred and
is unable to secure an acceptable conciliation agreement from the respondent,
then the administrator shall take formal enforcement action using the process
set forth in LDC 17.60 administrative enforcement code, excluding the civil
penalties portion, which shall be as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 10-26 §
1, 2010)
2.62.130: OFFENSES AND PENALTIES:
A person violates this chapter if the person engages in any action made
unlawful by this chapter. An offense committed under this chapter by an
employer employing fifty (50) or fewer employees is punishable by a civil fine
of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). An offense committed under
this chapter by an individual employing fifty one (51) or more employees or by
an employment agency or labor organization is punishable by a civil fine of not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 10-26 § 1, 2010)
CHAPTER 2.64
HOUSING DISCRIMINATION
SECTION:
2.64.010: Purpose
2.64.020: Administration
2.64.030: No Private Right Of Action; No Special Rights
2.64.040: Severability
2.64.050: Definitions
2.64.060: Exemptions
2.64.070: Unlawful Housing Practices
2.64.080: Unlawful Intimidation, Retaliation, And Coercion
2.64.090: Procedures For Filing Complaints
2.64.100: Investigation
2.64.110: Conciliation
2.64.120: Disposition Of A Complaint
2.64.130: Offenses And Penalties
2.64.010: PURPOSE:
Every individual in the city has the right to seek housing. Discriminatory
housing practices are detrimental because they impede the social and economic
progress of the city by preventing all of the city's citizens from contributing
to or fully participating in the cultural, spiritual, social and commercial
life of the community, which is essential to the growth and vitality of the
city's neighborhoods and businesses.
The Utah fair housing act, Utah code section 57-21-1 et seq., addresses housing
related discrimination based on race; color; religion; sex; national origin;
familial status; source of income; and disability, but does not address
discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity.
The city has found that discrimination in housing on the basis of sexual
orientation and gender identity must be addressed. The denial or deprivation of
access to housing because of an individual's sexual orientation or gender
identity is detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the city's
citizens and damages the city's economic well being. The purpose of this
chapter is to provide a clear and comprehensive mandate for the prevention and
elimination of discrimination in housing in the city against individuals based
upon sexual orientation or gender identity and this chapter shall be liberally
construed to achieve that purpose. (Ord. 10-25 § 1, 2010)
2.64.020: ADMINISTRATION:
The mayor is responsible for administering and implementing this chapter. (Ord.
10-25 § 1, 2010)
2.64.030: NO PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION; NO SPECIAL RIGHTS:
This chapter does not create a private cause of action, nor does it create any
right or remedy that is the same or substantially equivalent to the remedies
provided under federal or state law. This chapter does not create any special
rights or privileges which would not be available to all of the city's citizens
because every person has a sexual orientation and a gender identity. (Ord. 10-
25 § 1, 2010)
2.64.040: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, paragraph, term, definition or provision of this
chapter is for any reason determined to be illegal, invalid, superseded by
other authority or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction or
by any state or federal regulatory authority having jurisdiction thereof, such
portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision and
such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other section,
sentence, paragraph, term, definition or provision of this chapter, all of
which will remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 10-25 § 1, 2010)
2.64.050: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter:
ADMINISTRATOR: The person designated by the mayor to receive, investigate, and
conciliate complaints under this chapter and includes the administrator's
designated representatives.
CITY: The city of Logan, Utah.
CITY ATTORNEY: The duly appointed city attorney.
COMPLAINANT: A person, including the administrator, who files a complaint under
this chapter.
CONCILIATION: The attempted resolution of issues raised in a complaint filed
under this chapter, or raised in the investigation of the complaint, through
informal negotiations involving the complainant, the respondent, and the
administrator.
CONCILIATION AGREEMENT: A written agreement setting forth the resolution of
issues by conciliation under this chapter.
DISCRIMINATION: Any direct or indirect exclusion, distinction, segregation,
limitation, refusal, denial, or other differentiation in the treatment of a
person or persons because of a person's actual or perceived sexual orientation
or gender identity or because of a person's association with any such person.
Discrimination shall not be interpreted to require or to grant or accord
preferential treatment to any person because of that person's sexual
orientation or gender identity.
DWELLING: Any building or structure, or a portion of a building or structure,
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence of one or
more families inside the city and vacant land that is offered for sale or lease
for the construction or location of a dwelling inside the city.
GENDER IDENTITY: A person's actual or perceived gender identity, appearance,
mannerisms, or other characteristics of a person with or without regard to the
person's sex at birth.
MAYOR: The duly elected or appointed and qualified mayor of the city of Logan.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal
representatives, mutual companies, joint stock companies, trusts,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under the United
States bankruptcy code, receivers, and fiduciaries.
REAL ESTATE BROKER OR SALESPERSON: A principal real estate broker, an associate
real estate broker, or a real estate sales agent as those terms are defined in
Utah code section 61-2-2 or any successor provision.
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION: A religious corporation, association, educational
institution, society, trust, or any entity or association which is a wholly
owned or controlled subsidiary or agency of any religious corporation,
association, society, trust or corporation sole.
RENT: To lease, sublease, let, or otherwise grant for a consideration the right
to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTION: The making or purchasing of loans
or providing other financial assistance for purchasing, constructing,
improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling; or secured by residential real
estate; or selling, brokering, or appraising residential real property inside
the city.
RESPONDENT: A person identified in a complaint as having committed an unlawful
housing practice under this chapter.
SEXUAL ORIENTATION: A person's actual or perceived orientation as heterosexual,
homosexual, or bisexual.
UNLAWFUL PRACTICE: A discriminatory act or practice relating to housing that is
prohibited under this chapter. (Ord. 10-25 § 1, 2010)
2.64.060: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter does not apply to a temporary or permanent residence facility
operated by a nonprofit organization; a charitable organization; a person in
conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, including
any dormitory operated by a public or private educational institution; or a
person who rents to individuals of the same gender per dwelling, if the
discrimination is based on sexual orientation or gender identity for reasons of
personal modesty or privacy or in the furtherance of a religious organization's
sincerely held religious beliefs.
This chapter does not prohibit or restrict a religious organization or any
nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or
in conjunction with a religious organization from limiting the sale, rental, or
occupancy of dwellings it owns or operates for primarily noncommercial purposes
to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons.
This chapter does not prohibit distinctions based on a person's inability or
failure to fulfill the terms and conditions, including financial obligations,
of a lease, rental agreement, contract of purchase or sale, mortgage, trust
deed, or other financing agreement.
This chapter does not apply to: a) the United States government, any of its
departments or agencies, or any corporation wholly owned by it; or b) the
government of the state of Utah or any of its departments, agencies, or
political subdivision, except for the city. (Ord. 10-25 § 1, 2010)
2.64.070: UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES:
   A.   Discriminatory Practices: It is a discriminatory housing practice to do
any of the following:
      1.   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, refuse
to negotiate for the sale or rental, or otherwise deny or make unavailable any
dwelling from any person because of the person's sexual orientation or gender
identity;
      2.   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of the sale or rental of any dwelling or in providing facilities or
services in connection with the dwelling because of the person's sexual
orientation or gender identity;
      3.   Represent to any person that any dwelling is not available for
inspection, sale, or rental when in fact the dwelling is available;
      4.   To make a representation orally or in writing or make, print,
circulate, publish, post, or cause to be made, printed, circulated, published,
or posted any notice, statement, or advertisement, or to use any application
form for the sale or rental of a dwelling, that directly or indirectly
expresses any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on sexual
orientation or gender identity, or expresses any intent to make any such
preference, limitation, or discrimination;
      5.   To induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to buy, sell,
or rent any dwelling by making representations about the entry or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of persons of a particular sexual orientation or
gender identity;
      6.   Engage in any discriminatory housing practices because of sexual
orientation or gender identity based upon a person's association with another
person.
   B.   Real Estate Broker Or Salesperson: It is a discriminatory housing
practice for a real estate broker or salesperson to do any of the following
because of a person's sexual orientation or gender identity:
      1.   To discriminate against any person in making available a residential
real estate transaction, or in the terms or conditions of the transaction,
inside the city, because of a person's sexual orientation or gender identity;
      2.   To deny any person access to, or membership or participation in, any
multiple listing service, real estate brokers' organization, or other service,
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings inside the city or to discriminate against any person in the terms or
conditions of access, membership, or participation in the organization,
service, or facility inside the city because of a person's sexual orientation
or gender identity; or
      3.   Engage in any discriminatory housing practices inside the city
because of sexual orientation or gender identity based upon a person's
association with another person.
   C.   Exceptions: This chapter does not apply to the following:
      1.   The sale or rental of any single-family dwelling, if the owner:
         a.   Does not own an interest in or title to four (4) or more single-
family dwellings held for lease or sale at one time located inside the city;
         b.   Has not sold two (2) or more single-family dwellings inside the
city in which the owner did not reside in the dwelling within the twenty four
(24) month period preceding the sale or rental of the dwelling; and
         c.   Does not use the services or facilities of any real estate
broker, agent, or salesperson, or of any other person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, in connection with the sale or rental of the
dwelling inside the city.
      2.   The rental of a dwelling that is occupied or intended to be occupied
by no more than four (4) families living independently of each other, when the
owner actually maintains and occupies part of the dwelling as a residence.
      3.   Nothing in this section prohibits conduct against a person because
of the person's conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal
manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance under state or federal
law. (Ord. 10-25 § 1, 2010)
2.64.080: UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION, RETALIATION, AND COERCION:
It is unlawful for any person to discriminate against, harass, threaten, harm,
damage, or otherwise penalize another person for opposing an unlawful practice,
for filing a complaint, or for testifying, assisting, or participating in any
manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter. (Ord.
10-25 § 1, 2010)
2.64.090: PROCEDURES FOR FILING COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by an unlawful housing
practice may file a complaint with the administrator. A complaint may also be
filed by the administrator if the administrator has reasonable cause to believe
that a person has committed an unlawful housing practice. A complaint must be
filed within one hundred eighty (180) calendar days after an alleged unlawful
housing practice has occurred.
   B.   A complaint must be in writing on a form provided by the administrator,
made under oath or affirmation, and contain the following information:
      1.   The complainant's name, address, and signature;
      2.   The date the alleged unlawful housing practice occurred;
      3.   A statement of the facts upon which the allegation of an unlawful
practice is based; and
      4.   The respondent's name and address.
   C.   Promptly after the filing of a complaint, the administrator shall:
      1.   Provide the respondent named in the complaint written notice that a
complaint alleging the commission of an unlawful housing practice has been
filed against the respondent;
      2.   Furnish a copy of the complaint to the respondent; and
      3.   Advise the respondent of the respondent's procedural rights and
obligations, including the right to file a written, signed, and verified
informal answer to the complaint within fifteen (15) days after service of
notice of the complaint.
   D.   Not later than the fifteenth day after service of the notice and copy
of the complaint, a respondent may file an answer to the complaint. The answer
must be in writing, made under oath or affirmation, and contain the following
information:
      1.   The respondent's name, address, telephone number, and signature of
the respondent or the respondent's attorney, if any; and
      2.   A concise statement of facts in response to the allegations in the
complaint, including facts of any defense or exception. (Ord. 10-25 § 1, 2010)
2.64.100: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Upon the filing of a complaint, the administrator shall commence an
investigation to determine the facts behind the complaint and whether there is
reasonable cause to believe the respondent committed an unlawful housing
practice, except that no investigation may commence if, after reviewing the
allegations of the complaint, the administrator determines that the complaint
does not come within the scope of this chapter. Upon determining that a
particular complaint does not come within the scope of this chapter, the
administrator shall dismiss the complaint, notify the complainant and the
respondent and take no further action.
   B.   In connection with any investigation of a complaint filed under this
chapter, the administrator shall seek the voluntary cooperation of any person
to:
      1.   Obtain access to premises, records, documents, individuals, and any
other possible source of information;
      2.   Examine, record, and copy necessary materials; and
      3.   Take and record testimony or statements of any person reasonably
necessary for the furtherance of the investigation.
   C.   The administrator may request the city attorney to issue an executive
branch subpoena or subpoena duces tecum to compel the attendance of a witness
or the production of relevant materials or documents pursuant to Utah code
section 10-3-610, as amended, and the Utah rules of civil procedure.
   D.   The administrator may dismiss a complaint during the investigation if
the administrator determines that:
      1.   The complaint was not filed within the required time period;
      2.   The location of the alleged unlawful housing practice is not within
the city's jurisdiction;
      3.   The alleged unlawful housing practice is not a violation of this
chapter;
      4.   The complainant refuses to cooperate with the administrator in the
investigation of the complaint or enforcement of an executed conciliation
agreement;
      5.   The complainant cannot be located after the administrator has
performed a reasonable search; or
      6.   A conciliation agreement has been executed by the complainant and
respondent. (Ord. 10-25 § 1, 2010)
2.64.110: CONCILIATION:
   A.   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of the
notice of the complaint to the respondent, the administrator shall, if it
appears that the respondent has committed an unlawful housing practice, attempt
to conciliate the complaint. In conciliating a complaint, the administrator
shall try to achieve a just resolution and obtain assurances that the
respondent will satisfactorily remedy any violation of the complainant's rights
and take action to ensure the elimination of both present and future unlawful
housing practices. A conciliation agreement may include: sensitivity training
for the respondent and/or the respondent's employees; the respondent's
agreement to adopt and pursue a policy of nondiscrimination in its practices;
and the respondent's agreement to not engage in discriminatory practices in the
future.
   B.   A conciliation agreement executed under this section must be in writing
in a form approved by the city attorney and must be signed and verified by the
respondent and the complainant, subject to approval of the administrator who
shall indicate approval by signing the agreement.
   C.   If a respondent voluntarily enters into a conciliation agreement, the
administrator shall immediately dismiss the complaint. (Ord. 10-25 § 1, 2010)
2.64.120: DISPOSITION OF A COMPLAINT:
   A.   If, upon completion of an investigation of a complaint, the
administrator determines that an unlawful housing practice has occurred and is
unable to secure an acceptable conciliation agreement from the respondent, then
the administrator shall take formal enforcement action using the process set
forth in LDC 17.60 administrative enforcement code, excluding the civil
penalties portion, which shall be as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 10-25 §
1, 2010)
2.64.130: OFFENSES AND PENALTIES:
A person violates this chapter if the person intentionally or knowingly
violates a provision of this chapter or if the person intentionally or
knowingly obstructs or prevents compliance with this chapter. An offense
committed under this chapter by a respondent owning or operating twenty (20) or
fewer dwellings is punishable by a civil fine of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). An offense committed under this chapter by a respondent
owning or operating twenty one (21) or more dwellings or by a real estate
broker or salesperson is punishable by a civil fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 10-25 § 1, 2010)
CHAPTER 2.65
ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS
SECTION:
2.65.010: Authority And Purpose
2.65.020: Definitions
2.65.030: Request For Access
2.65.040: Appeal
2.65.050: Fees
2.65.060: Forms
2.65.010: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
Under authority of Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-701, this chapter
specifies how records in the custody of the City of Logan may be accessed, and
where and to whom requests for access to records shall be directed. All other
regulations related to access to public records, including but not limited to,
standards for the classification and designation of records; the standards for
the management and retention of records; response times for access requests;
and time limits for appeals shall be as set forth in Utah Code Annotated title
63G, chapter 2. (Ord. 18-15, 2018)
2.65.020: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter are defined in Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-
103. (Ord. 18-15, 2018)
2.65.030: REQUEST FOR ACCESS:
   A.   A request for access to records shall be made in writing, include the
information required by Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-204, and be submitted
by first class mail; hand delivery; or electronically to the Records Officer as
follows:
      1.   For records maintained by the City of Logan (excluding Logan police
records): Office of the City Recorder, 290 North 100 West, Logan, Utah 84321.
Electronically submitted request shall be sent to
loganrecordrequest@loganutah.org.
      2.   For Logan police records: Logan Police Records Clerk, 62 West 300
North, Logan, Utah 84321. Electronically submitted request shall be sent to
loganrecordrequest@loganutah.org.
   B.   Requests submitted in a manner other than set forth herein will not be
accepted. (Ord. 18-15, 2018)
2.65.040: APPEAL:
   A.   An appeal of a decision of a Records Officer, shall be in writing,
comply with the information required by Utah Code Annotated 63G-2-401(2), and
be submitted by first class mail; hand delivery; or electronically to the
Office of the Logan City Mayor, 290 North 100 West, Logan, Utah 84321 or
loganrecordrequest@loganutah.org.
   B.   Appeals submitted in a manner other than set forth herein will not be
accepted. (Ord. 18-15, 2018)
2.65.050: FEES:
   A.   A schedule of fees that may be charged in response to a records request
may be obtained by contacting the Records Officer. The fee schedule is also
available on the Logan City website at www.loganutah.org.
   B.   Fees for providing a record may be waived under certain circumstances
described in Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-203(4). A request for a fee
waiver shall be made in writing to the Records Officer as part of the records
request. (Ord. 18-15, 2018)
2.65.060: FORMS:
   A.   Request forms are available at www.loganutah.org, or from the Records
Officer.
   B.   These forms are provided as a convenience, and a requester is not
required to use these forms as long as information required by the statute is
provided. (Ord. 18-15, 2018)
TITLE 3
REVENUE AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 3.04
PURCHASING
SECTION:
3.04.010: System Adopted
3.04.020: Definitions
3.04.030: Administration
3.04.040: Procedure
3.04.050: Contracts
3.04.060: Exemptions To Competitive Bidding Requirements
3.04.070: Budget Officer
3.04.080: City Retains Certain Discretion
3.04.090: Purchases Of Real Property
3.04.100: Prohibited Acts; Disciplinary Action
3.04.010: SYSTEM ADOPTED:
Pursuant to Utah code section 10-8-2 and other pertinent provisions of the laws
of the state, there is adopted and established a purchasing system for the city
which shall be based on the principles set out in this chapter. (Ord. 14-75,
2014)
3.04.020: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms used in this chapter, or the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter, shall have the
following meanings:
ADEQUATE APPROPRIATION BALANCE: Sufficient fund balance existing in the
appropriation item against which the purchase order is to be charged.
BID: An offer, submitted by a bidder, to furnish supplies, materials,
equipment, other personal property, or contractual services in conformity with
the specifications, delivery terms and conditions, and other requirements
included in the invitation for bids or otherwise required by the city.
BIDDING: The procedure used to solicit quotations on price and delivery from
various prospective suppliers of supplies, materials, equipment, other personal
property, or contractual services.
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES: Professional and nonprofessional service contracts
entered into for the accomplishment of a particular project or a limited period
of time.
EMERGENCY PURCHASE: A purchase for a significant event involving the risk of
life, property or essential government service where the failure to act
immediately could exacerbate the emergency situation.
ESTIMATES OF REQUIREMENTS: Forecasts of future requirements of supplies,
equipment, materials, other personal property, or contractual services
submitted by city departments or representatives upon request of the mayor or
the mayor's designee.
FORMAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING: The process by which written and sealed, or
electronically sealed bids are solicited by publication of notice and are read
at a designated bid opening with a specific date and time.
OPEN MARKET PROCEDURES: Purchasing goods or services from the open market by,
whenever possible, obtaining at least three (3) bids. This bid solicitation can
be done by department heads, division managers, or their designees. The goal of
open market procedures is to obtain substantially equal goods and services at
the lowest possible price.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any item of real or personal property owned by the city.
PURCHASE ORDERS: Official documents used in authorizing the commitment of city
funds toward the purchase of supplies, materials, equipment, other personal
property, or contractual services.
REQUISITIONS: Electronic forms used by departments or other authorized city
representatives to request a purchase order by providing detailed information
as to quantity, description, estimated price, possible supplier and
authorization for requested purchases.
RESPONSIBLE BIDDER: A bidder who has proven by experience or information
furnished to the satisfaction of the purchasing agent that his or her current
financial resources, production or service facilities, service or reputation,
and experience are adequate to make satisfactory delivery of supplies of
acceptable quality, equipment or contractual services on which she or he bids;
and who has not violated or attempted to violate any provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 14-28, 2014)
3.04.030: ADMINISTRATION:
The purchasing agent shall administer the purchasing system provided by this
chapter. By virtue of the statutes provided in this chapter and by other
applicable laws, the purchasing agent shall perform the duties and have powers
concerning purchasing matters as follows:
   A.   Administer and maintain the purchasing system according to the rules
and regulations established or authorized by this chapter and other ordinances;
   B.   Recommend to the mayor and council additional rules and regulations or
changes from time to time that the purchasing agent considers desirable, and to
interpret, with legal advice, the provisions of this chapter and applicable
statutes;
   C.   Negotiate and recommend execution of contracts for the purchase of
supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services after consultation with
department directors, division managers and other responsible city agents;
   D.   Seek to obtain as full and open competition as possible either by
bidding or negotiation on all city purchases;
   E.   Keep informed of current developments in the field of purchasing, i.e.,
prices, market conditions, new products, etc.;
   F.   Prescribe and maintain such forms as are reasonably necessary to the
operation of this chapter and other rules and regulations;
   G.   Supervise the inspection of all city purchased equipment to assure
conformance with specifications;
   H.   Maintain a bidders' list, vendors' catalog file and other records
needed for the efficient operation of the purchasing system;
   I.   Supervise the maintenance of the inventory system.
(Ord. 14-28, 2014)
3.04.040: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Open Market Procedures: All purchases, over five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), shall be made in compliance with open market procedures. Evidence
of compliance with open market procedures must be maintained by the department
making the purchase. Purchases below the open market procedures threshold may
be made without competitive price quotations if the price is reasonable. Effort
should always be made to obtain the best value for the product or services
purchased.
   B.   Purchase Orders: All services, contracts, supplies, materials, and
equipment of a value of more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) shall be
purchased with the authority of a written purchase order. Written documentation
of compliance with open market procedures must accompany all purchase orders.
Purchases that by their nature are made without a purchase order include travel
reimbursements, training, airline reservations, hotel reservations, membership
fees, maintenance contracts, and other written agreements. Other contracts or
similar purchases may be exempted from the purchase order requirement with the
authorization of the mayor and purchasing agent.
   C.   Annual Purchase Orders: Annual purchase orders may be established for
standard goods and services ordered periodically by one or more departments
throughout a fiscal year. Annual purchase orders are established by the
purchasing agent at the beginning of a fiscal year and are valid for all
purchases made during that fiscal year. Such items as pipe, fencing material,
gravel, concrete, etc., are applicable. An annual purchase order may be
established for a specific vendor and is only good for those specific items
listed on the purchase order.
   D.   Formal Competitive Bidding: If the purchase price exceeds one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00), formal competitive bidding procedures shall be
used unless such purchases are made for an inventory warehouse. Inventory
warehouse purchases can be made using open market procedures. The purchasing
agent shall call for competitive bids by giving reasonable notice of the city's
intent to receive sealed bids, describing therein the requested property or
services needed, and the place where bid blanks and specifications may be
obtained as well as the place, date and time when bids will be received and/or
opened. In the case of CMGC, formal bidding procedures may be performed by the
selected contractor under the direction of the purchasing agent.
      1.   Publication Of Notice: Unless otherwise required by state law, bids
may be invited by one or more of the following: a single publication in a local
newspaper, by mailing invitations to interested qualified bidders, electronic
notification (facsimile or e-mail) to interested vendors, posting of the bid or
proposal package on the city website, or posting of the bid or proposal package
on an online procurement notification system selected by the purchasing agent.
A minimum of three (3) bidders, where applicable, will be solicited. Bids are
accepted in a manner determined by the purchasing agent.
      2.   Firm Bids: All bids submitted to the city shall be open for
acceptance for a period of ten (10) days following bid openings.
      3.   Rejection Of Bids: The city may reject without cause any or all bids
and may readvertise for bids pursuant to the procedure described in this
chapter.
      4.   Payment And Performance Bonds: Before entering into a contract the
purchasing agent may require a one hundred percent (100%) payment and
performance bond from the successful bidder. The bond must be furnished to the
city purchasing division upon awarding of a contract. A payment and performance
bond shall be required on public works construction projects.
      5.   Bid Bonds: The purchasing agent may require as a condition of
bidding a bid bond or a cashier's check in lieu thereof in the amount of five
percent (5%) of the amount bid. A bid bond may be required on public works
construction projects. Note: The security mentioned above may be submitted in
the form of a bond, certified or cashier's check or other security satisfactory
to the city.
   E.   Award Of Bids: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter the city
shall accept the bid of the lowest responsible bidder.
   F.   Award To Other Than Low Bidder: When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the
order elsewhere shall be prepared by the department head and submitted to the
purchasing agent and filed with the other papers relating to the transaction.
   G.   Noncompliant Purchases: Purchases that are not in compliance with the
purchasing system must be documented in writing. The documentation must include
the reason for the noncompliance and must be signed by the department head, and
the mayor. Failure to follow the purchasing system may result in disciplinary
action.
   H.   Bidder Eligibility: Bidders who are involved in a pending claim or
litigation or have threatened same against the city may be disqualified from
doing business with the city when determined to be in the best interest of the
city. This disqualification may apply to a bidder or a subcontractor or
supplier of the bidder.
(Ord. 23-34, 2023: Ord. 14-28, 2014)
3.04.050: CONTRACTS:
   A.   Contractual Service Contracts; Procedure: Contracts for contractual
services may be awarded by use of open market procedures or competitive
bidding. Wherever practical, competitive bidding shall be used.
   B.   Award Of Contracts: Contracts shall be awarded at the discretion of the
mayor based on the evaluation of professional qualifications, service ability,
cost of service and other criteria deemed applicable by the mayor and concerned
department heads.
(Ord. 14-28, 2014)
3.04.060: EXEMPTIONS TO COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Contracts Not Adaptive To Competitive Bidding: Contracts which by their
nature are not adaptive to competitive bidding, such as contracts for
maintenance and repairs and contracts for items which may, as a practical
matter, only be purchased from a single source, contracts for repairs or
additions to equipment owned by the city, which may be more efficiently added
to by a certain person or firm, and contracts for additional engineering or
professional services specifically related to current or previous contracts may
not be subject to the competitive bidding requirements of this chapter. When
the foregoing or similar conditions exist, a written justification for the
exemption to competitive bidding shall be approved by the mayor and filed with
the purchasing documents.
   B.   Library Purchases: The purchase of library books, records, tapes,
films, publications, periodicals and subscriptions are specifically exempted
from the requirements of competitive bidding.
   C.   Auction, Closeout, Used Equipment, And Bankruptcy Sales: If the mayor
determines that supplies, materials or equipment can be purchased by any public
auction, closeout sale, used equipment, bankruptcy sale, or inventory reduction
sale or other similar sale, and makes a finding that a purchase at any such
auction or sale will be made at a cost below the market cost in the community,
the mayor may authorize the purchases.
   D.   Exchanges: The purchasing agent may by agreement exchange supplies,
materials, equipment or services with other public agencies, or the purchasing
agent may exchange the property or services with private persons or entities
when special circumstances exist which indicate that such an exchange would
prove more advantageous to the city than a simple purchase for cash.
   E.   Interlocal Agreements In Letting Of Contracts For Commodities Or
Services: The city shall have the power to enter into joint purchase agreements
with any or all other public agencies within the state for the purchase of any
commodity or service, where it is determined by the mayor to be in the best
interest of the city.
   F.   Emergency Purchases: To qualify as an emergency purchase, the purchase
must be ratified, after the emergency, by the department head, the mayor, and
the purchasing agent as a qualifying emergency. The department must notify the
purchasing agent of the emergency purchase by the end of the first business day
following the event.
   G.   Open Market Procedure: When the formal bidding process is required, but
the purchasing agent determines that none of the bidders can give a competitive
bid because of the time between the date of the bid and the date required for
delivery of the goods or services, then the purchasing agent may utilize the
open market procedure to obtain the lowest price for those particular goods or
services.
   H.   State Contract: Goods and services purchased from the Utah state
contract are exempt from the competitive bidding requirements.
   I.   Equivalent Bidding Procedures: Goods and services that have been
competitively bid by another political subdivision of the state of Utah, other
government cooperatives, alliances, or other entities within twelve (12) months
may also be exempt from the competitive bidding requirements at the discretion
of the purchasing agent, provided the bidding requirements followed by the
political subdivision are substantially in compliance with the requirements
described in this chapter.
(Ord. 23-34, 2023: Ord. 14-28, 2014)
3.04.070: BUDGET OFFICER:
The budget officer or the budget officer's representative shall approve all
requisitions in an amount over one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for
the purpose of determining the existence of budget authorization for the
proposed purchase and an adequate appropriation balance including encumbrances.
(Ord. 23-34, 2023: Ord. 14-28, 2014)
3.04.080: CITY RETAINS CERTAIN DISCRETION:
Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the city shall retain
the discretion to construct public works and other new improvements using its
own personnel and equipment without requiring bids as allowed by Utah law.
(Ord. 14-28, 2014)
3.04.090: PURCHASES OF REAL PROPERTY:
Negotiations for purchases of real property shall be directed by the mayor or
the mayor's representative.
(Ord. 23-34, 2023: Ord. 14-28, 2014)
3.04.100: PROHIBITED ACTS; DISCIPLINARY ACTION:
   A.   Collusion Among Bidders: Any agreement or collusion among bidders or
prospective bidders to either buy or sell, in restraint of freedom of
competition, be it an agreement to bid a fixed price, or otherwise, shall
render the bids of such bidders void and subject them to possible exclusion
from future bidding with the city as determined by the mayor to be in the best
interest of the city.
   B.   Purchasing Procedures: No officer or employee of the city shall make
any purchase for or on behalf of the city of any material, goods, wares or
supplies of any kind whatsoever except through purchasing procedures as
specified in this chapter. It shall be a breach of duty on the part of any
officer or employee of the city to make any purchase in any manner other than
through specified purchasing procedures. If such purchases are made, the city
shall not be bound and such officer or employee shall be personally responsible
for payment. However, the provisions of this section shall not apply to
emergency purchases and other purchases as provided for in this chapter.
   C.   Disclosure Of Formal Bid Contents: Any disclosure in advance of the
opening of bids, of any information contained in the sealed or formal bid, made
or permitted by a city officer or employee may render each bid void either by
the city or the parties submitting bids. Appropriate disciplinary action shall
be taken against both the persons revealing the information and the persons
using the information. Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the
contrary, all bids submitted by bidders taking advantage of any information
revealed contrary to this section shall at once become null and void.
   D.   Personal Purchases: Other purchases of supplies or equipment for
personal use shall not be permitted and shall be cause for disciplinary action.
(Ord. 14-28, 2014)
CHAPTER 3.08
PUBLIC CONTRACTS
SECTION:
3.08.010: Contracts
3.08.020: Specifications; Advertisements
3.08.010: CONTRACTS:
Every contract for the construction of public work made by the mayor shall
contain such stipulations as shall require the contractor to erect and maintain
good and sufficient guards, barricades and signals at all unsafe places at or
near where the work or improvement contemplated by the contractor is to be done
or made; also such stipulations as will render the contractor and the
contractor's bondspersons in every case liable to the city for any liability
that it may incur for any injury that any person may suffer by reason of the
failure to erect and maintain such good and sufficient barricades, guards or
signals; every contract shall also contain a provision that in case any injury
to any person shall arise by reason of the failure to erect and maintain such
barricades, guards and signals or by reason of negligence of the contractor,
the contractor's agents or employees during the performance of the contract or
before the warrants to become due on the contract shall have been delivered,
the city and its officials may withhold such payment so long as shall seem
necessary for the indemnity of the city. Such contracts shall also contain a
provision that when the contractor shall remove any earth from any street,
alley or other public place, the same shall, when replaced, be solidly tamped
and shall make such further rules and regulations in the city's behalf as will
ensure full protection to the city from loss or liability, and make such
further stipulations in such contracts as will ensure the city from all loss or
liability that ray arise by reason of the carelessness and all negligence of
such contractors, their agents or servants. (Prior code § 13-1-1)
3.08.020: SPECIFICATIONS; ADVERTISEMENTS:
Before any new improvements are made which are to be paid for out of the
general funds of the city, the mayor shall cause plans and specifications to be
prepared and an estimate of the costs made. If the estimated cost does not
exceed eight thousand dollars ($8,000.00), the improvements may be made without
publication of notice and advertising for bids, but if the estimated cost
exceeds eight thousand dollars ($8,000.00), a contract must be let after
publication of notice for at least five (5) days in a newspaper of general
circulation published in the city; or personal notice to interested bidders as
the mayor may order. The mayor shall have the right to reject any or all bids
received and all notices calling for bids shall so state. In case bids are
called as provided in this section and the proposals received shall exceed the
estimate of the cost of making the improvements, all bids shall be rejected and
the mayor shall advertise anew in the same manner as before. If, after twice
advertising as provided in this chapter, no bid shall be received which is
satisfactory and less than the estimated costs of such improvements, the mayor
may proceed under his or her own direction to make the improvement. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to require bids to be called for, or contracts
let, for the conduct or management of any of the departments, business or
property of the city or for lowering or repairing water mains or sewers or
making connections with water mains or sewers or for the grading, repairing or
maintenance of streets, sidewalks, bridges, culverts or conduits. (1989 Code:
prior code § 13-1-2)
CHAPTER 3.12
CLAIMS BY AND AGAINST THE CITY
SECTION:
3.12.010: Generally
3.12.020: Officers To Report To Treasurer
3.12.030: Collection
3.12.010: GENERALLY:
Every claim against the city for damages or injury alleged to have been caused
by defective, unsafe or dangerous conditions of any property owned or
maintained by the city or from the negligence of any city officer or employee
shall be presented as required by state law. (Ord. 14-75, 2014)
3.12.020: OFFICERS TO REPORT TO TREASURER:
When any proper charge against any person in favor of the city shall become
known to any city official or employee, such person must immediately report the
same to the city treasurer. (Prior code § 1-5-1)
3.12.030: COLLECTION:
   A.   Statements: The city treasurer shall keep a record of all such notices
of indebtedness and shall mail to the debtor a statement or a bill for the sum,
directing that the amounts due thereon be paid, and the treasurer shall use all
reasonable efforts to collect the same.
   B.   Delinquent Accounts: In case any claims due the city are not paid
within thirty (30) days of the date when the city treasurer mails a statement
of claim as hereinbefore provided, the city treasurer shall send a statement of
such claims to the city attorney stating that the same are past due, together
with a statement of all information possessed by her or him concerning the
same. The city attorney shall take such action as the city attorney deems
appropriate to effect the collection of all such claims. Where the debtor
resides at some distance from the city, the city attorney may refer the claim
to an attorney or agency for collection if his or her efforts at collection are
unsuccessful. (Prior code §§ 1-5-2, 1-5-3)
CHAPTER 3.20
SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENTS
(Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
CHAPTER 3.24
CABLE TV TAX
SECTION:
3.24.010: Cable TV Franchise Tax
3.24.020: Payment
3.24.030: Violation; Penalty
3.24.010: CABLE TV FRANCHISE TAX:
There is levied upon the business of every person or company engaged in
business in the city, supplying cable television services, an annual license
tax equal to three percent (3%) of the gross revenue derived from all
advertising and cable television sales within the corporate limits of Logan
City, from and after March 1, 1995, the fee being in addition to the two
percent (2%) franchise tax heretofore levied in section VII of that certain
ordinance passed December 22, 1970. (Ord. 95-6 § 1, 1995: prior code § 7-20-1)
3.24.020: PAYMENT:
Within forty five (45) days after the end of each month, the entity taxed
thereunder shall file with the city treasurer, a report of its gross revenue
derived from the sale and use of cable television service in the city as
defined in this chapter, together with a computation of the tax levied
hereunder against the utility. Coincidental with the filing of such report, the
utility shall pay to the city treasurer the amount of the tax due for that
calendar month. (Prior code § 7-20-2)
3.24.030: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Penalty provisions pertaining to violations of this code are found in chapter
1.16 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code § 7-21-1)
CHAPTER 3.26
MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3.26.010: Definitions
3.26.020: Municipal Energy Sales And Use Tax Levied
3.26.030: Exemptions
3.26.040: No Effect Upon Existing Franchises; Credit For Franchise Fees
3.26.050: Tax Collection Contract With State Tax Commission
3.26.060: Incorporation Of Part 1, Chapter 12, Title 59, Utah Code, Including
Amendments
3.26.070: No Additional License Or Reporting Requirements
3.26.010: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the municipal energy sales and use tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE: Means:
   A.   A fee:
       1.   Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
      2.   That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   B.   1.   A fee similar to subsection A of this definition;
      2.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
DELIVERED VALUE: The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for sale
or use in the municipality and includes:
   A.   The value of the energy itself; and
   B.   Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges service charges or
other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable form to
each class of customer in the municipality.
Delivered value does not include the amount of a tax paid under part 1 or part
2 of chapter 12, title 59 of the Utah Code Annotated.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimus amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded
by rule promulgated by the state tax commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract, or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX:
   A.   A franchise tax;
   B.   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   C.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
PERSON: Means and includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate,
this state, any county, city, municipality, district, or other local government
entity of the state, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
   A.   Installment and credit sales;
   B.   Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C.   Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in Logan City for any
purpose except sale in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
USE: The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
   Use does not include the sale, display, demonstration or trial of the
taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (Ord. 97-
26 § 2, 1997)
3.26.020: MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX LEVIED:
   A.   There is levied, subject to the provisions of this chapter, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made within Logan City equaling six percent
(6%) of the delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax
shall be known as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   B.   The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer.
   C.   The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on taxable energy
imposed by Logan City authorized by title 59, chapter 12, part 2 of the Utah
Code Annotated, the local sales and use tax act. (Ord. 97-26 § 3, 1997)
3.26.030: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax
except as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b);
notwithstanding an exemption granted by section 59-1-104 of the Utah code.
   B.   The following are exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b):
      1.   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel and special fuels subject
to taxation under title 59, chapter 13 of the Utah Code Annotated;
      2.   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
federal law, the United States constitution or the Utah constitution;
      3.   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
      4.   Sales or use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a
fuel subject to taxation under title 59, chapter 13 of the Utah Code Annotated;
      5.   Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident living or
working in the state at the time of purchase;
      6.   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      7.   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of Logan
City.
   C.   The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of taxable energy is
exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied in this chapter,
provided:
      1.   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
state authorized by title 59, chapter 12, part 3 of the Utah Code Annotated;
and
      2.   Logan City is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this chapter, if the
tax due under this chapter exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.
(Ord. 97-26 § 4, 1997)
3.26.040: NO EFFECT UPON EXISTING FRANCHISES; CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE FEES:
   A.   This chapter shall not alter any existing franchise agreements between
Logan City and energy suppliers.
   B.   There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the amount
of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to Logan City
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 1997;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (Ord. 97-26 § 5,
1997)
3.26.050: TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
   A.   The city shall contract with the state tax commission to perform all
functions incident to the administration and collection of the municipal energy
sales and use tax, in accordance with this chapter. The mayor is authorized to
enter into agreements with the state tax commission that may be necessary to
the continued administration and operation of the municipal energy sales and
use tax ordinance enacted by this chapter.
   B.   An energy supplier shall pay the municipal energy sales and use tax
revenues collected from consumers directly to Logan City monthly if:
      1.   Logan City is the energy supplier; or
      2.   a. The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales and
use tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more; and
         b.   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   C.   An energy supplier paying the municipal energy sales and use tax
directly to Logan City may deduct any contractual franchise fees collected by
the energy supplier qualifying as a credit and remit the net tax less any
amount the energy supplier retains as authorized by section 10-1-307(4), Utah
Code Annotated. (Ord. 97-26 § 6, 1997)
3.26.060: INCORPORATION OF PART 1, CHAPTER 12, TITLE 59, UTAH CODE, INCLUDING
AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Except as provided in this chapter, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of title 10, chapter 1, part 3, municipal
energy sales and use tax act, as well as this chapter, all of the provisions of
part 1, chapter 12, title 59 of the Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, and
in force and effect on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes, excepting sections 59-
12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, and excepting for the amount of the sales and use
taxes levied therein, are adopted and made a part of this chapter as if fully
set forth herein.
   B.   Wherever, and to the extent that in part 1, chapter 12, title 59, Utah
Code Annotated 1953, as amended, the state of Utah is named or referred to as
the "taxing agency", the name of Logan City shall be substituted, insofar as is
necessary for the purposes of that part, as well as part 3, chapter 1, title
10, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended. Nothing in this subsection shall be
deemed to require substitution of the name Logan City for the word "state" when
that word is used as part of the title of the state tax commission or of the
constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of Logan City be substituted for that
of the state in any section when the result of such a substitution would
require action to be taken by or against Logan City or any agency thereof,
rather than by or against the state tax commission in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.
   C.   Any amendments made to part 1, chapter 12, title 59, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, as amended, which would be applicable to Logan City for the
purposes of carrying out this chapter are incorporated herein by reference and
shall be effective upon the date that they are effective as a Utah statute.
(Ord. 97-26 § 7, 1997)
3.26.070: NO ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and use
tax levied by this chapter is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under section 59-12-106, Utah Code Annotated.
(Ord. 97-26 § 8, 1997)
CHAPTER 3.28
SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3.28.010: Title
3.28.020: Purpose
3.28.030: Sales Tax
3.28.040: Use Tax
3.28.050: Mayor Authorized To Execute Documents
3.28.060: Contract With State Tax Commission
3.28.070: Violation; Penalty
3.28.010: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the UNIFORM LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE of
the city. (Prior code § 3-3-1)
3.28.020: PURPOSE:
   A.   The Utah legislature authorized municipalities of the state to enact
sales and use tax ordinances imposing a 58/64 of one percent (1%) tax effective
July 1, 1986.
   B.   It is the purpose of this chapter to levy and impose a 58/64 percent
local option sales and use tax, effective July 1, 1986, to authorize and
designate the Utah state tax commission as agent for the municipality to
collect the tax and to conform with the requirements of the uniform local sales
and use tax law of Utah. (Ord. 14-75, 2014)
3.28.030: SALES TAX:
   A.   1. From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax on every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and means made within the municipality at the rate of 58/64
percent.
      2.   For the purpose of this chapter, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or the retailer's
agent to an out of state designation. If a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the state, or has more than one place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under the
rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by the state tax commission.
Public utilities as defined by title 54, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, shall not
be obligated to determine the place or places within any county or municipality
where public utility services are rendered, but the place of sale or the sales
tax revenues arising from such service allocable to the municipality shall be
determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and
other rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   B.   1. Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the uniform local sales and use tax law of
Utah, all the provisions of Utah Code Annotated 59-15, 1953, as amended, and in
force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales
taxes, excepting sections 59-15-1 and 59-15-21 thereof, and excepting for the
amount of the sales tax levied therein, are adopted and made a part of this
chapter as though fully set forth in this chapter.
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated 59-15, 1953,
the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this
municipality shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be
deemed to require substitution of the name of the municipality for the word
"state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax
commission, or of the constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of the
municipality be substituted for that of the state in any section when the
result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the
municipality or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax
commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this chapter.
      3.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated 59-15-3, 1953, an additional license shall not be required by reason
of this section.
      4.   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by
which the tax is measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state on a
retailer or consumer;
         b.   Receipts from the sale of tangible personal property on which a
sales or use tax has become due by reason of the same transaction to any other
municipality and any county in the state, under a sales or use tax ordinance
enacted by that county or municipality in accordance with the uniform local
sales and use tax law of Utah. (Prior code § 3-3-4)
3.28.040: USE TAX:
   A.   An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
this municipality of tangible personal property from any retailer on or after
the operative date of the ordinance codified in this chapter for storage, use
or other consumption in the municipality at the rate of 58/64 percent of the
sales price of the property.
   B.   1. Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the uniform local sales and use tax law of
Utah, all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated 59-16, 1953, as amended, and
in force and effect on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, applicable to use taxes, excepting the provisions of sections 59-16-
1 and 59-16-25 thereof, and excepting for the amount of the tax levied therein,
are adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set forth in this
section.
      2.   Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated 59-16, 1953,
the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the city
shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to
require the substitution of the name of this municipality for the word "state"
when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax commission or of
the constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of the municipality be substituted
for that of the state in any section when the results of that substitution
would require action to be taken by or against the municipality or any agency
thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.
      3.   There shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:
         a.   The amounts of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer;
         b.   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross receipts from the sales of or the cost of which has been
subject to sales or use tax under a sales or use tax ordinance enacted in
accordance with the uniform local sales and use tax law of Utah by any other
municipality and any county of the state. (Prior code § 3-3-5)
3.28.050: MAYOR AUTHORIZED TO EXECUTE DOCUMENTS:
The mayor is authorized to execute whatever documents are necessary to
distribute sale and use tax revenues on the combination of point of sale and
population factors set forth in Utah Code Annotated 11-9-5, 1953. (Prior code §
3-3-6)
3.28.060: CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
Heretofore, this municipality has entered into an agreement with the state tax
commission to perform all functions incident to the administration or operation
of the sales and use tax ordinance of the municipality. That contract is
confirmed and the mayor is authorized to enter into such supplementary
agreement with the state tax commission as may be necessary to the continued
administration and operation of the local sales and use tax ordinance of the
municipality as reenacted by this chapter. (Prior code § 3-3-7)
3.28.070: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Penalty provisions pertaining to violations of this code are found in chapter
1.16 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code § 3-3-8)
CHAPTER 3.29
ENVIRONMENTAL FUND FRANCHISE FEE
SECTION:
3.29.010: Levied
3.29.020: Contract
3.29.010: LEVIED:
There is levied upon the business of every person or company engaged in the
business in Logan City of supplying environmental services as a public service,
a franchise fee equal to six percent (6%) of the gross revenues derived from
the sales and use of the services of environmental health delivered from July
1, 2001, within the corporate limits of the city of Logan. (Ord. 01-46, 2001)
3.29.020: CONTRACT:
Any business entity other than Logan City Municipal Corporation shall enter
into a contract with Logan City Municipal Corporation outlining the terms and
conditions related to the establishment and the providing of a franchise fee to
Logan City Municipal Corporation as a result of doing business within Logan
City limits. (Ord. 01-46, 2001)
CHAPTER 3.30
WATER AND SEWER FUND FRANCHISE FEE
SECTION:
3.30.010: Levied
3.30.020: Contract
3.30.010: LEVIED:
There is levied upon the business of every person or company engaged in the
business in Logan City of supplying water and sewer services as a public
service, a franchise fee equal to six percent (6%) of the gross revenues
derived from the sales and use of the services of water and sewer delivered
July 1, 2001, within the corporate limits of the city of Logan. (Ord. 01-49,
2001)
3.30.020: CONTRACT:
Any business entity other than Logan City Municipal Corporation shall enter
into a contract with Logan City Municipal Corporation outlining the terms and
conditions related to the establishment and the providing of a franchise fee to
Logan City Municipal Corporation as a result of doing business within Logan
City limits. (Ord. 01-49, 2001)
CHAPTER 3.31
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX 1
SECTION:
3.31.010: Levied
3.31.020: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. Prior history: Ord. 05-57 § 1, 2005.
3.31.010: LEVIED:
   A.   There is levied upon the business of every person, company, corporation
or other like and similar persons, groups or organizations, doing business in
the city as tourist homes, hotels, motels, inns, trailer courts or the like,
and similar public accommodations and services that are regularly rented for
less than thirty (30) consecutive days, an annual license tax equal to one
percent (1%) of the gross revenue derived from the rent for each and every
occupancy of a suite, room or rooms, for a period of less than thirty (30)
days.
   B.   For purposes of this section, gross receipts shall be computed upon the
base room rental rate. There shall be excluded from the gross revenue, by which
this tax is measured:
      1.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state or by any
other governmental agency upon a retailer or consumer;
      2.   The amount of any transient room tax levied under authority of
chapter 31 of title 17, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, or its
successor;
      3.   Receipts from the sale or service charge for any food, beverage or
room service charges in conjunction with the occupancy of the suite, room or
rooms, not included in the base room rate; and
      4.   Charges made for supplying telephone service, gas or electrical
energy service, not included in the base room rate.
   C.   The tax imposed by this section shall be due and payable to the city
treasurer quarterly on or before the last day of the month next succeeding each
calendar quarterly period, the first of such quarterly periods being the period
commencing with October 1, 2005. Every person or business taxed hereunder shall
on or before the last day of the month next succeeding each calendar quarterly
period, file with the license office a report of its gross revenue for the
preceding quarterly tax period. The report shall be accompanied by a remittance
of the amount of tax due for the period covered by the report.
   D.   The city may contract with the state tax commission to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this chapter. (Ord.
05-65 § 1, 2005)
3.31.020: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Penalty provisions pertaining to violations of this chapter are found in
chapter 1.16 of this code. (Ord. 05-65 § 1, 2005)
CHAPTER 3.34
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3.34.010: Definitions
3.34.020: Levy Of Tax
3.34.030: Rate
3.34.040: Rate Limitation And Exemption Therefrom
3.34.050: Effective Date Of Tax Levy
3.34.060: Changes In Rate Or Repeal Of The Tax
3.34.070: Interlocal Agreement For Collection Of The Tax
3.34.080: Procedures For Taxes Erroneously Recovered From Customers
3.34.090: Repeal Of Inconsistent Taxes And Fees
3.34.010: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
COMMISSION: The state tax commission.
CUSTOMER:
   A.   Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, the person who is
obligated under a contract with a telecommunications provider to pay for
telecommunications service received under the contract.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter, "customer" means:
      1.   The person who is obligated under a contract with a
telecommunications provider to pay for telecommunications service received
under the contract; or
      2.   If the end user is not the person described in subsection B1 of this
definition, the end user of telecommunications service.
   C.   "Customer" does not include a reseller:
      1. Of telecommunications service; or
      2.   For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's
licensed service area.
END USER:
   A.   The person who uses a telecommunications service.
   B.   For purposes of telecommunications service provided to a person who is
not an individual, "end user" means the individual who uses the
telecommunications service on behalf of the person who is provided the
telecommunications service.
GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE MUNICIPALITY: Those gross receipts from a
transaction for telecommunications services that is located within the
municipality for the purposes of sales and use taxes under Utah code title 59,
chapter 12, sales and use tax act, and determined in accordance with Utah code
section 59-12-207.
GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered
except for amounts collected or paid as:
   A.   A tax, fee, or charge:
      1.   Imposed by a governmental entity;
      2.   Separately identified as a tax, fee, or charge in the transaction
with the customer for the telecommunications service; and
      3.   Imposed only on a telecommunications provider;
   B.   Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a
customer under title 59, chapter 12, sales and use tax act; or
   C.   Interest, a fee, or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications
provider on a customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when
payment is due.
MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
MUNICIPALITY: City of Logan.
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE:
   A.   For telecommunications service other than mobile telecommunications
service, means the street address representative of where the customer's use of
the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which shall be:
      1.   The residential street address of the customer; or
      2.   The primary business street address of the customer; or
   B.   For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
SERVICE ADDRESS: Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid:
   A.   If the location described in this subsection A is known, the location
of the telecommunications equipment:
      1.   To which a call is charged; and
      2.   From which the call originates or terminates;
   B.   If the location described in subsection A of this definition is not
known but the location described in this subsection B is known, the location of
the origination point of the signal of the telecommunications service first
identified by:
      1.   The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
      2.   If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the
telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider; or
   C.   If the locations described in subsection A or B of this definition are
not known, the location of a customer's place of primary use.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER:
   A.   Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, a person that:
      1.   Owns, controls, operates, or manages a telecommunications service;
or
      2.   Engages in an activity described in subsection A1 of this definition
for the shared use with or resale to any person of the telecommunications
service.
   B.   A person described in subsection A of this definition is a
telecommunications provider whether or not the public service commission of
Utah regulates:
      1.   That person; or
      2.   The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls,
operates, or manages.
   C.   "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator as defined
in Utah code section 54-8b-2.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE:
   A.   Telephone service, as defined in Utah code section 59-12-102, other
than mobile telecommunications service, that originates and terminates within
the boundaries of this state; and
   B.   Mobile telecommunications service, as defined in Utah code section 59-
12-102:
      1.   That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state;
and
      2.   Only to the extent permitted by the mobile telecommunications
sourcing act, 4 USC section 116 et seq. (Ord. 04-37A, 2004)
3.34.020: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to this municipality. (Ord.
04-37A, 2004)
3.34.030: RATE:
The rate of the tax levied against a telecommunications provider’s gross
receipts from telecommunications services attributable to the municipality
shall reflect the rate specified under Utah Code Ann. § 10-1-403(1)(c) as
amended. If the location of a transaction is determined to be other than this
municipality then the rate imposed on the gross receipts for telecommunications
services shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of Utah code section
10-1-407. (Ord. 04-37A, 2004; amd. Ord. 23-14, 4-18-2023)
3.34.040: RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION THEREFROM:
This rate of this levy shall not exceed four percent (4%) of the
telecommunication provider's gross receipts from telecommunication service
attributed to the municipality unless a higher rate is approved by a majority
vote of the voters in this municipality that vote in:
   A.   A municipal general election;
   B.   A regular general election; or
   C.   A local special election. (Ord. 04-37A, 2004)
3.34.050: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX LEVY:
This tax shall be levied beginning July 1, 2004. (Ord. 04-37A, 2004)
3.34.060: CHANGES IN RATE OR REPEAL OF THE TAX:
This chapter is subject to the requirements of Utah code section 10-1-403. If
the tax rate is changed or the tax is repealed, then the appropriate notice
shall be given as provided in Utah code section 10-1-403. (Ord. 04-37A, 2004)
3.34.070: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR COLLECTION OF THE TAX:
On or before the effective date hereof, the municipality shall enter into the
uniform interlocal agreement with the commission as described in Utah code
section 10-1-405 for the collection, enforcement, and administration of this
municipal telecommunications license tax. (Ord. 04-37A, 2004)
3.34.080: PROCEDURES FOR TAXES ERRONEOUSLY RECOVERED FROM CUSTOMERS:
Pursuant to the provisions of Utah code section 10-1-408, a customer may not
bring a cause of action against a telecommunications provider on the basis that
the telecommunications provider erroneously recovered from the customer the
municipal telecommunication license tax except as provided in Utah code section
10-1-408. (Ord. 04-37A, 2004)
3.34.090: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT TAXES AND FEES:
Any tax or fee previously enacted by this municipality under authority of Utah
code section 10-1-203 or Utah code title 11, chapter 26, local taxation of
utilities limitation, is hereby repealed.
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to repeal any municipal ordinance
or fee which provides that the municipality may recover from a
telecommunications provider the management costs of the municipality caused by
the activities of the telecommunications provider in the rights of way of the
municipality, if the fee is imposed in accordance with Utah code section 72-7-
102 and is not related to the municipality's loss of use of a highway as a
result of the activities of the telecommunications provider in a right of way,
or increased deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the
telecommunications provider in a right of way nor does this chapter limit the
municipality's right to charge fees or taxes on persons that are not subject to
the municipal telecommunications license tax under this chapter and locate
telecommunications facilities, as defined in Utah code section 72-7-108, in
this municipality. (Ord. 04-37A, 2004)
CHAPTER 3.36
IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
3.36.010: Purpose
3.36.020: Definitions
3.36.030: Written Impact Fee Analysis
3.36.040: Impact Fee Calculations
3.36.050: Impact Fee Facilities Plan
3.36.060: Impact Fee Schedules And Formulas
3.36.070: Fee Exceptions And Adjustments
3.36.010: PURPOSE:
   This chapter establishes the city’s impact fee policies and procedures and
is promulgated pursuant to the requirements of the Utah impact fees act. This
chapter establishes or re-enacts impact fees for water, wastewater, parks,
power, and transportation within the service area, describes certain capital
improvements to be funded by impact fees, provides a schedule of impact fees
for differing types of land-use development, and sets forth direction for
challenging, modifying and appealing impact fees.
(Ord. 13-01, 2013; amd. Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020; Ord. 25-01, 2-18-2025)
3.36.020: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases that are defined in the act shall have the same definition in
this chapter. The following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings:
CITY: A political subdivision of the state of Utah and is referred to herein as
city of Logan.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any construction or expansion of building, structure or
use, any change in use of building or structure, or any change in the use of
land that creates additional demand and need for public facilities. Development
activity will include residential and commercial users who are not currently
connected to any of the city’s public facilities systems but will be located
within the city service area.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Any written authorization from the city that authorizes
the commencement of development activity.
IMPACT FACILITIES PLAN: The plan required by section 11-36a-301 of the act.
IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed upon development activity as a condition
of development approval. "Impact fee" includes development impact fees, but
does not include a tax, special assessment, hookup fee, building permit fee,
fee for project improvements, or other reasonable permit or application fees.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS: Site improvements and facilities that are planned and
designed to provide service for development resulting from a development
activity and are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or
users of development resulting from a development activity. “Project
improvements” do not include “system improvements” as defined below.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: An amount that is roughly proportionate and reasonably
related to the service demands and needs of a development activity.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Water, wastewater, parks, power, and transportation
infrastructure of the city for the city service area.
SERVICE AREA: A geographic area designated by the city based on sound planning
and engineering principles in which a defined set of the city's public
facilities provides service. The service area for purposes of this chapter
includes all of the area within the corporate limits and jurisdictional
boundaries of the city.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS: Both existing public facilities designed to provide
services within the service area and future public facilities identified in a
reasonable plan for capital improvements adopted by the city that are intended
to provide service to the service area. “System improvements” do not include
“project improvements” as defined above.
(Ord. 13-01, 2013; amd. Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020; Ord. 25-01, 2-18-2025)
3.36.030: WRITTEN IMPACT FEE ANALYSIS:
   A.   Executive Summary: A summary of the findings of the written impact fee
analyses that is designed to be understood by a lay person is included in each
of the impact fee facilities plans and impact fee analyses (Exhibit A) and
demonstrates the need for impact fees to be charged. The impact fee facilities
plans, impact fee analyses, and executive summaries have been available for
review at city hall at least ten (10) days prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   B.   Written Impact Fee Analysis: The city has prepared impact fee
facilities plans and impact fee analyses that identify the impacts upon public
facilities required by the development activity and demonstrate how those
impacts on system improvements are reasonably related to the development
activity, estimate the proportionate share of the costs of impacts on system
improvements that are reasonably related to the development activity and
identify how the impact fees are calculated. A copy of the impact fee
facilities plans and impact fee analyses has been available for public
inspection at least ten (10) days prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   C.   Proportionate Share Analysis: The city must prepare a proportionate
share analysis which analyzes whether or not the proportionate share of the
costs of future public facilities is reasonably related to new development
activity. The proportionate share analysis must identify the costs of existing
public facilities, the manner of financing existing public facilities, the
relative extent to which new development will contribute to the cost of
existing facilities and the extent to which new development is entitled to a
credit for payment towards the costs of new facilities from general taxation or
other means apart from user charges in other parts of the city. A copy of the
proportionate share analysis is included in the impact fee facilities plans and
impact fee analyses and has been available for public inspection at least ten
(10) days prior to the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-01, 2013; amd. Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020; Ord. 25-01, 2-18-2025)
3.36.040: IMPACT FEE CALCULATIONS:
   A.   The city council, by this chapter, approves impact fees in accordance
with the written impact fee analyses.
      1.   In calculating the impact fee, the city has included the
construction costs, land acquisition costs, costs of improvements, fees for
planning, surveying, and engineering services provided for and directly related
to the construction of system improvements, and debt service charges if the
city might use impact fees as a revenue stream to pay principal and interest on
bonds or other obligations to finance the cost of system improvements.
      2.   The city has held a public hearing on February 18, 2020, and a copy
of the ordinance codified herein was available in its substantially final form
at Logan City Hall, 290 North 100 West, the Logan City Library and City of
Logan website, at least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing, all in
conformity with the requirements of Utah Code Annotated § 10-9a-205.
      3.   This chapter adopting or modifying an impact fee will contain such
detail and elements as deemed appropriate by the city council, including a
designation of the service area within which the impact fees are to be
calculated and imposed. The city service area will be the service area included
in this analysis, which is defined as all of the areas within the corporate
limits and jurisdictional boundaries of the city.
      4.   The standard impact fee may be adjusted at the time the fee is
charged in response to unusual circumstances or to fairly allocate costs
associated with impacts created by a development activity or project. The
standard impact fee may also be adjusted to ensure that impact fees are imposed
fairly for affordable housing projects, in accordance with the local
government’s affordable housing policy, and other development activities with
broad public purposes. The impact fee assessed to a particular development may
also be adjusted should the developer supply sufficient written information
and/or data to the city showing a discrepancy between the fee being assessed
and the actual impact on the system.
      5.   To the extent that new growth and development will be served by
previously constructed improvements, the city’s impact fees may include public
facility costs and outstanding bond costs related to the public facilities
improvements previously incurred by the city. These costs may include all
projects included in the impact fee facilities plan which are under
construction or completed but have not been utilized to their capacity. Any
future debt obligations determined to be necessitated by growth activity will
also be included to offset the costs of future capital projects.
   B.   A developer, including a school district or charter school, may be
allowed a credit against impact fees for any dedication of land for system
improvements, a dedication of a public facility that will result in a reduced
need for system improvements, or improvement to land or new construction of
system improvements provided by the developer provided that it is: 1)
identified in the city’s impact fee facilities plan and 2) required by the city
as a condition of approving the development activity. Otherwise, no credit may
be given.
   C.   The city will establish separate interest bearing ledger accounts for
each type of public facility for which an impact fee is promulgated in
accordance with the requirements of the impact fees act and deposited in the
appropriate ledger account. Interest earned on each fund or account shall be
segregated to that account. Impact fees collected prior to the effective date
of this chapter need not meet the requirements of this section.
      1.   At the end of each fiscal year, the city shall prepare a report on
each fund or account generally showing the source and amount of all monies
collected, earned and received by the fund or account and each expenditure from
the fund or account.
      2.   The city may expend impact fees covered by this chapter only for
system improvements that are: (a) public facilities identified in the city’s
impact fee facilities plan and (b) of the specific public facility type for
which the fee was collected.
      3.   Impact fees collected pursuant to the requirements of this chapter
are to be expended, dedicated or encumbered for a permissible use within six
(6) years of the receipt of those funds by the city, unless the city council
directs otherwise. For purposes of this calculation, the first funds
   received shall be deemed to be the first funds expended.
      4.   The city may hold previously dedicated or unencumbered fees for
longer than six (6) years if it identifies in writing: a) an extraordinary and
compelling reason why the fees should be held longer than six (6) years and b)
an absolute date by which the fees will be expended.
   D.   The city shall refund any impact fees paid by a developer plus interest
actually earned when: 1) the developer does not proceed with the development
activity and files a written request for a refund; 2) the fees have not been
spent or encumbered; and 3) no impact has resulted. An impact that would
preclude a developer from a refund from the city may include any impact
reasonably identified by the city, including, but not limited to, the city
having sized facilities and/or paid for, installed and/or caused the
installation of facilities based in whole or in part upon the developer’s
planned development activity even though that capacity may, at some future
time, be utilized by another development.
   E.   The impact fees authorized hereby are separate from and in addition to
user fees and other charges lawfully imposed by the city and other fees and
costs that may not be included as itemized component parts of the impact fee
schedule. In charging any such fees as a condition of development approval, the
city recognizes that the fees must be a reasonable charge for the service
provided.
   F.   Unless the city is otherwise bound by a contractual requirement, the
impact fee shall be determined from the fee schedule in effect at the time of
payment in accordance with the provisions of section
3.36.060 of this chapter.
   G.   The city will collect the impact fees at the time of building permit
issuance. The fees will be calculated by the city.
   H.   Should any developer undertake development activities such that the
ultimate density or other impact of the development activity is not revealed to
the city, either through inadvertence, neglect, a change in plans, or any other
cause whatsoever, and/or the impact fee is not initially charged against all
units or the total density within the development, the city shall be entitled
to charge an additional impact fee to the developer or other appropriate person
covering the density for which an impact fee was not previously paid.
(Ord. 13-01, 2013; amd. Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020; amd. Ord. 25-01, 2-18-2025)
3.36.050: IMPACT FEE FACILITIES PLAN:
   A.   The city has developed impact fee facilities plans for the water,
wastewater, parks, power, and transportation systems. The impact fee facilities
plans have been prepared based on reasonable growth assumptions for the city
and general demand characteristics of current and future users of each system.
Furthermore, the impact fee facilities plans identify the impact on system
improvements created by development activity and estimate the proportionate
share of the costs of impacts on system improvements that are reasonably
related to new development activity. (Ord. 13-01, 2013; amd. Ord. 20-03, 2-18-
2020)
3.36.060: IMPACT FEE SCHEDULES AND FORMULAS:
   A.   The fee schedules included herein represent the maximum impact fees
which the city may impose on development within the defined service area and
are based upon general demand characteristics and potential demand that can be
created by each class of user. The city reserves the right as allowed by law to
assess an adjusted fee to respond to unusual circumstances to ensure that fees
are equitably assessed.
   B.   The city may decrease the impact fee if the developer can provide
documentation that the proposed impact will be less than what could be expected
given the type of user 1 .
   C.   The city reserves the right to establish the impact fees as established
in this chapter by rate resolution or consolidated fee schedule. In no event
will the impact fees established by resolution exceed the maximum supportable
impact fee schedule.
MAXIMUM SUPPORTABLE IMPACT FEE SCHEDULES
 
CULINARY WATER FEE SCHEDULE
METER SIZE                      ERC MULTIPLIER FEE PER ERC
1" Displacement Meter           1.0            $2,293
2" Displacement/ Compound Meter 4.0            $9,172
4" Compound Meter               15.0           $34,398
Water Impact Fees for meters larger than 4" will be calculated using this
equation: (estimated usage/0.45 ac-ft) * $2,293
 
 
WASTEWATER COLLECTION FEE SCHEDULE
METER SIZE                     ERU MULTIPLIER FEE PER ERU
1" Displacement Meter          1.0            $203
2" Displacement/Compound Meter 3.2            $650
4" Compound Meter              10.0           $2,030
Collection Impact Fees for meters larger than 4" will be calculated using
this equation: (estimated usage/245 gpd) * $203
 
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FEE SCHEDULE
METER SIZE ERU MULTIPLIER FEE PER ERU
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FEE SCHEDULE
METER SIZE                     ERU MULTIPLIER FEE PER ERU
Residential User
   Single Family Unit       1              $2,433.00/unit
   Multi Family User*       0.7*           $1,703.00/unit*
Non-Standard Impact Fee**
2" Displacement/Compound Meter 3.2            $7,786.00 Minimum Fee
4" Compound Meter              10             $24,327.00 Minimum Fee
Non-Standard Impact Fee User                  (GPD/245GPD) * $2,433.00
 
*Multi-family refers to a residential dwelling that consists of duplex,
triplex, quadplex, apartment, condominium, and all other dwelling units that
are individually or jointly water metered and not classified as Single Family
Residential. These may consist of one building or multiple buildings within a
complex. Units can be arranged side-by-side or stacked vertically and can be
owned individually or leased separately.
**Non-Standard Impact Fee: Defined as commercial and industrial facilities, and
public facilities.
 
PARKS & TRAILS FEE SCHEDULE
Impact Fee Per Unit                   Persons per Unit Fee per Unit
Single Family                         3.28             $1,292
Multi-Family (Including Mobile Homes) 2.45             $965
 
POWER FEE SCHEDULE
TABLE 8.6: POWER IMPACT FEE PER UNIT - RESIDENTIAL
AMPS KVA PEAK DEMAND IMPACT FEE
POWER FEE SCHEDULE
TABLE 8.6: POWER IMPACT FEE PER UNIT - RESIDENTIAL
AMPS KVA PEAK DEMAND IMPACT FEE
100  24  3.00        $213
125  30  4.00        $284
150  36  5.00        $355
200  48  6.00        $426
225  54  8.00        $568
400  96  24.00       $852
 
 
TABLE 8.7: COMMERCIAL SINGLE PHASE
AMPS KVA PEAK DEMAND IMPACT FEE
100  24  3.00        $213
125  30  5.00        $355
150  36  7.00        $497
200  48  12.00       $852
400  96  19.00       $1,349
 
TABLE 8.8: COMMERCIAL 3 PHASE (120/208V) OR (120/240 V)
AMPS KVA PEAK DEMAND IMPACT FEE
TABLE 8.8: COMMERCIAL 3 PHASE (120/208V) OR (120/240 V)
AMPS KVA PEAK DEMAND IMPACT FEE
125  45  9.00        $639
150  54  14.00       $994
200  72  18.00       $1,278
400  144 36.00       $2,556
600  216 54.00       $3,834
800  288 72.00       $5,112
1000 360 90.00       $6,390
1200 432 108.00      $7,668
1600 576 144.00      $10,224
2000 720 180.00      $12,780
 
TABLE 8.9: COMMERCIAL 3 PHASE (277/480 V)
AMPS KVA PEAK DEMAND IMPACT FEE
TABLE 8.9: COMMERCIAL 3 PHASE (277/480 V)
AMPS KVA  PEAK DEMAND IMPACT FEE
125  104  20.00       $1,420
150  125  30.00       $2,130
200  166  42.00       $2,982
400  332  83.00       $5,893
600  498  1125.00     $8,875
800  664  166.00      $11,786
1000 830  208.00      $14,768
1200 996  249.00      $17,679
1600 1329 333.00      $23,643
2000 1661 416.00      $29,536
 
Non-standard power fee will be calculated using this equation: Estimate of kWs
per Unit x $71 = Impact fee per Unit
TRANSPORTATION FEE SCHEDULE
 ITE            Units Weekay Pass-By Adjustment Adjusted Trips Estimated Fee
 Classification
TRANSPORTATION FEE SCHEDULE
              ITE            Units Weekay Pass-By    Adjusted Estimated Fee
              Classification              Adjustment Trips
Single Family 210            Unit  9.44   0%         9.44     $1,020
Homes
Multi-Family  220            Unit  7.32   0%         7.32     $791
(Low-Rise)
General
Commercial/   820            1K SF 37.75  34%        24.92    $2,691
Shopping
Center
General       710            1K SF 9.74   0%         9.74     $1,052
Office
General Light 110            1K SF 4.96   0%         4.96     $536
Industrial
Manufacturing 140            1K SF 3.93   0%         3.93     $424
 
Non-standard transportation fee will be calculated using this equation:
Estimate of trips per Unit x $108 = Impact fee per Unit
(Ord. 13-01, 2013; amd. Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020; Ord. 25-01, 2-18-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA 11-36a-402(1)(d).
3.36.070: FEE EXCEPTIONS AND ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   The city may adjust the impact fees imposed pursuant to this chapter as
necessary in order to:
      1.   Respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases;
      2.   Ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly;
      3.   Ensure that the fee represents the proportionate share of the costs
of providing such facilities which are reasonably related to and necessary in
order to provide the services in question to anticipated future growth and
development activities;
      4.   Allow credits against impact fees for dedication of land for
improvement to or new construction of any system improvements which are
identified in the capital facilities plan and required by the city as a
condition of approving the development activity. No credits shall be given for
project improvements. The determination of what constitutes a project
improvement will, of necessity, vary somewhat depending on the specific facts
and circumstances presented by the nature, size and scope of any particular
development activity. All new development activity will be required to install
site improvements and facilities which are reasonably necessary to service the
proposed development at adopted level of service standards; and
      5.   Exempt low income housing and other development activities with
broad public purposes from impact fees and establish one or more sources of
funds other than impact fees to pay for that development activity.
   B.   The mayor or his designee shall have the authority to make such
adjustments based upon reliable information submitted by an applicant and any
recommendation from the city staff.
   C.   The mayor may adopt policies consistent with this chapter and any
resolutions passed by the municipal council to assist in the implementation,
administration and interpretation of this chapter related to impact fees.
   D.   If the applicant, person, or entity is not satisfied with the decision
of the mayor, a further appeal may be made under the procedures set forth in
Utah Code Annotated section 11-36a-703. (Ord. 13-01, 2013)
TITLE 4
RESERVED
 
TITLE 5
BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 5.02
BUSINESS LICENSE GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
Article I. General Provisions
5.02.000: Short Title
5.02.010: Purpose
5.02.020: Definitions
5.02.030: Exemptions
Article II. Licensing Provisions
5.02.040: Application Of Regulations
5.02.050: Bonding
5.02.060: Application; Responsibility Of Applicant; Contents
5.02.070: Separate License Required For Each Branch
5.02.080: Display
5.02.090: Inspections
5.02.100: Inspections; Notice Of Violations
5.02.110: Inspections; Complaint In Case Of Noncompliance
5.02.120: Preparation And Listing
5.02.130: Applications For Special Licenses
5.02.140: Applicant Information Referred To Police Department
5.02.150: Revocation
5.02.160: Appellate Process
5.02.170: Doing Business Unlawful After License Denied, Suspended Or Revoked
Article III. License Fees
5.02.190: Fees
5.02.200: Fee; Additional
5.02.210: Fee Payments; Delinquent Fees And Penalties
5.02.220: Renewal Billing Procedure
5.02.230: Fee Adjustment To Avoid Burdening Interstate Commerce
5.02.240: Exemption Of Insurance Companies
5.02.250: Unspecified Fees Or Time Periods
5.02.260: Mistakes In Fee Calculations
5.02.270: Deviations Prohibited
5.02.280: Duplicate License; Fee
5.02.290: Refunds
5.02.300: Transfers
Article IV. Enforcement
5.02.310: Police; Appointed Inspectors Of Licenses; Powers And Duties
5.02.320: Effect Of Conviction; Prosecution Not Barred
5.02.330: Violation; Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
5.02.000: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the BUSINESS LICENSES AND
REGULATIONS or title 5 of this code. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.010: PURPOSE:
Pursuant to powers granted by the state as set forth in various provisions of
the Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, the city intends by this chapter to
regulate and license businesses and occupations within its corporate limits, to
maintain a current index of licensed businesses and occupations and to raise
revenue necessary to regulate licensed entities.
It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way
impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances,
except those specifically repealed by the ordinance codified in this chapter.
Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon persons, premises or
personal property than is imposed or required by such existing provisions of
law, ordinance, contract or deed, the provision of this chapter shall control.
The amendment of this ordinance does not preclude enforcement of violations or
collection of business license taxes and penalty fees under the code which
existed at the time of taxation or violation prior to the implementation of any
amendment. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms, words and phrases and
their derivations shall have the meanings prescribed in this section. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
BUSINESS LICENSE ADMINISTRATOR OR ADMINISTRATOR: The division manager charged
with issuance, suspension and revocation of business licenses and compliance of
licenses to this code or the administrator's designee.
CITY: The municipality of the city of Logan, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL OR MUNICIPAL COUNCIL: The municipal council of the city of Logan.
CONSENT: A written license or instrument issued by the city authorizing and
empowering the grantee thereof to some act not forbidden by law but not
allowable without such authority.
CONSENTEE: The person to whom a consent has been issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter and whom may also be referred to under the general
term "licensee".
CONTRACTOR: Means and includes anyone defined as a contractor in the Utah
construction trades licensing act.
DIRECTOR: The director of the department of finance for the city, or the
director's designee.
DIVISION: The business license division of the department of finance.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS OR CONDUCT OF BUSINESS: Means and includes, but is not
limited to, the sale of tangible personal property at retail or wholesale, the
manufacturing of goods or property and the rendering of services to others for
a consideration by persons engaged in any profession, vocation, craft,
business, occupation, enterprise, and all other kinds of activities and
matters, together with all devices, machines, vehicles and appurtenances used
therein, any of which are conducted for private profit, or benefit, either
directly or indirectly, on any premises in this city, or anywhere else within
its jurisdiction. The act of employees rendering services to employers shall
not be included in such terms unless otherwise specifically prescribed.
Separate licenses shall not be required for persons who engage in business with
others as a partnership or corporation legally constituted.
INSIGNIA: "Insignia" or its singular number "insigne" is any tag, plate, badge,
emblem, sticker, or any other kind of device which may be required for any use
in connection with any license.
LICENSE: A certificate or document issued by the city evidencing permission or
authority of its named holder to carry on a particular business or to pursue a
particular occupation.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license has been issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter or to whom a consent, permit or registration has
been granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter when the term
"licensee" is used in a general sense of this definition.
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: The average number of employees engaged in business at the
place of business each regular working day during the preceding calendar year.
In computing the number, each part time employee shall be counted as that
fraction which is formed by using the total number of hours worked by such
employee as the numerator and the total amount of hours regularly worked by a
full time employee as the denominator.
PERMIT: A written license or instrument issued by the city authorizing and
empowering the grantee thereof to some act not forbidden by law but not
allowable without such authority.
PERMITTEE: The person to whom a permit has been issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter and whom may also be referred to under the general
term "licensee".
PERSON: Any individual or natural person, receiver, assignee, trustee in
bankruptcy, trust, firm, partnership, joint venture, corporation, syndicate,
estate, club, company, business trust, association, society or other group of
individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit
or otherwise; or any officers, agents, employees, factors, or any kind of
personal representatives of any thereof in any capacity, acting either for
himself, or for any other person, under either personal appointment or pursuant
to law.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: A location maintained or operated within the City from which
a person engages in business.
PREMISES: All lands, structures, places, and also the equipment and
appurtenances connected or used therewith in any business, and also any
personal property which is either affixed to, or is otherwise used in
connection with any such business conducted on such premises.
REGISTRANT: The person who has registered with the City pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter and who may also be referred to under the general
term "licensee".
REGISTRATION: A written license or instrument issued by the City authorizing
and empowering the grantee thereof to some act not forbidden by law but not
allowable without such authority. (Ord. 14-75, 2014)
5.02.030: EXEMPTIONS:
A business license shall not be required for a business that is operated only
occasionally and by an individual who is under eighteen (18) years of age. The
Administrator will evaluate the size, frequency, duration, visibility, and
seasonality of the proposed business to determine whether the proposed business
is considered occasional. (Ord. 17-06, 2017)
ARTICLE II. LICENSING PROVISIONS
5.02.040: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It is unlawful for any person, either directly or
indirectly, to engage in business or conduct any nonprofit enterprise, or to
use in connection therewith any vehicle, premises, machine or device, in whole
or in part, within the City for which a license, permit, consent or
registration is required by any law or ordinance of this City, without first
procuring a license, permit, consent or registration, or for any person to
continue a business when the license, permit, consent or registration
pertaining thereto has been suspended or revoked or has been rendered invalid
by a change of ownership, location or other invalidating circumstance.
   B.   Special Sales: This chapter shall apply to all business in the nature
of special sales for which a license is required by any law or ordinance of
this city and it shall be unlawful for any person, either directly or
indirectly, to conduct any such sale except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter.
      1.   One Act Constitutes Doing Business: For the purpose of this chapter,
any person shall be deemed to be in business or engaging in nonprofit
enterprise, and thus subject to the requirements of this section, when he or
she does one act of:
         a.   Selling any goods or service;
         b.   Soliciting business or offering goods or services for sale or
hire;
         c.   Acquiring or using any vehicle or any premises in the city for
business purposes. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.050: BONDING:
   A.   The following occupations or businesses shall require the posting of a
cash or corporate surety bond in the sum listed below in addition to whatever
regular or special licenses may be required pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter:
 
Occupation Or Business                  Amount
Alcoholic beverage retail establishment $5,000.00 surety
Auctioneer                              5,000.00 surety
Employment service                      5,000.00 surety
Itinerant or transient merchant         5,000.00 surety
Pawnbrokers                             5,000.00 surety
Wrestling, boxing                       5,000.00 surety
 
   B.   All such bonds shall be conditional for the faithful observance by the
licensee of all laws and ordinances of the city and for the honest performance
of all duties required of the licensee by ordinance as well as for such
additional purposes as may be required in the particular chapter of this title
requiring a license for such occupation or business. Any corporate surety bond
must be issued by a company with an office in Utah, or in the absence of an
office, the company must have designated an office for the service of process
in the state.
   C.   All such cash bonds shall be refunded by way of a payment from the city
to the licensee for the amount of the cash bond no less than thirty (30) days
after the license expires, conditional on the faithful observance by the
licensee and employees and representatives thereof of the laws and ordinances
of the city and the honest performance of all duties required of the licensee.
   D.   If the licensee, including employees and representatives thereof, is
cited for conduct of fraudulent or other noncompliant business, or there is
other verifiable or substantial fraudulent or other noncompliant business
conducted by the licensee, including employees and representatives thereof, the
cash bond shall be forfeited, or in the case of a surety bond, a claim filed
against the licensee on behalf of the city.
   E.   Appeal for any decision regarding bond forfeiture or claims shall be
pursuant to the appellate process identified in section
5.02.160 of this chapter. (Ord. 05-25 § 1, 2005: Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.060: APPLICATION; RESPONSIBILITY OF APPLICANT; CONTENTS:
It shall be the responsibility of a person engaging in business within the city
to voluntarily apply for and maintain in full force and effect a valid license.
   A.   Form: The application form shall be issued by the division, and shall
require the following information: business name, address, mailing address and
telephone number; owner's and local manager's names, addresses and home
telephone numbers; dates of birth; driver's license numbers; emergency phone
number; Utah state sales tax number, federal employer identification number,
Utah employer withholding number, business name and entity registration
information, Utah state regulatory license information, and other identifiers
as they are required for the applicant to legally conduct the applied for
business; business start date; location start date if different from business
start date; and a description of the business activity(ies) to be conducted.
In the case of a corporate applicant, the above identified information shall be
required for the corporation and the corporate officers in addition to any
stockholder who holds at least twenty percent (20%) of the total issued and
outstanding stock of the corporation. Any registered agent not also an officer
of the corporation shall be required to submit personal name and contact
address and phone number.
   B.   Fee: Should it be necessary that a person be required by the
administrator to make application for a license, the administrator shall charge
a nonrefundable application fee based on the cost of setting up new records,
distributing the application, inspecting the business site, reviewing the
application for approval or denial, notifying the applicant of license status
and other activities related to license setup and status determination.
   C.   Application Is Not A License: Submission of an application does not
constitute license approval. License approval or denial shall be determined
within approximately two (2) weeks from application submission, except as
indicated in subsequent chapters of this title for limited identified purposes.
If circumstances do not allow completion of the application process in a timely
manner, the applicant may receive a notice warning of application denial for
noncompliant issues and allowing a specified time frame for resolution of such.
If compliance is not possible, the application will be denied.
   D.   Short Notice Application: Applications submitted with insufficient time
to attend to the regular application review process prior to opening their
business or submitted in response to a citation for operating a business
without a license will receive expeditious review as far as possible. Until a
decision for license approval is rendered by the administrator, the applicant
must cease and desist all activities requiring a business license. There will
be an additional fee charged for the expeditious nonroutine handling necessary
to inform the affected jurisdictional agencies and obtain the appropriate
approvals. (Ord. 14-75, 2014: Ord. 05-25 § 1, 2005: Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.070: SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH BRANCH:
A separate license must be obtained for each branch established or separate
place of business in which the business of a licensee is carried on. Each
license shall authorize the person obtaining it to carry on, pursue or conduct
only that business described in such license and only at the location which is
indicated thereon. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.080: DISPLAY:
Every licensee licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall keep
his license displayed and exhibited while the same is in force in some
conspicuous part of the place of business. Every licensee not having a fixed
place of business shall carry such license with them at all times while
carrying on the business for which the license is issued and shall produce the
license for inspection when requested to do so by any person. (Ord. 97-76 § 1,
1997)
5.02.090: INSPECTIONS:
Prior to the issuance of a license to engage in a new business not heretofore
licensed, the applicant shall permit inspections to be made of the prospective
place of business by any appropriate department of the city or other
governmental agency to ensure compliance with building, fire and health and
safety codes. No license shall be granted without the approval of all such
required inspections. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.100: INSPECTIONS; NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS:
Existing places of business licensed within the city shall be inspected
periodically by departments of the city for compliance with building, fire,
health and safety codes. Written notice shall be given by the inspector to a
licensee upon the finding of any code violations, which notice shall provide
for a reasonable period not to exceed sixty (60) days in which to correct such
violations, the failure of which shall result in the revocation of the license
by the administrator. A copy of any such notice to the licensee shall be
provided by the inspector to the administrator when issued to the licensee.
(Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.110: INSPECTIONS; COMPLAINT IN CASE OF NONCOMPLIANCE:
The administrator shall request that a citation be issued to any applicant or
any licensee who continues to conduct business beyond the time limits provided
in this chapter for noncompliance with the required standards. (Ord. 97-76 § 1,
1997)
5.02.120: PREPARATION AND LISTING:
The division shall prepare and issue an appropriate license for every person
qualifying therefor under the provisions of this chapter and shall state in
each license the period of time for which it is issued, the name of the person
to whom issued and the location of the place of business. All licenses shall be
signed by the administrator. The division shall maintain a list of all persons
holding licenses and the status of each such license. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.130: APPLICATIONS FOR SPECIAL LICENSES:
Applications shall be required and special licenses issued pursuant to the
provisions of other chapters of this title. For the activities defined in
subsequent chapters of this title, a regular license to engage in business of
the kind required by this chapter will also be required in addition to the
respective special licenses. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.140: APPLICANT INFORMATION REFERRED TO POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Applicants for a business license will have their business and personal
identification information referred to the police department by the
administrator for a local background check and to alert the police to any new
business to enable informed emergency support.
An applicant's criminal background may be grounds for denial of the license
application if the applicant's record contains convictions for violations of
any city, county, state or federal laws or other verifiable issues which
demonstrate a potential risk to the health, safety, peace or general welfare of
the city or its inhabitants; or if there are unresolved warrants for any
applicant; or any other reason expressly provided for in this chapter or in
subsequent chapters as applicable to the subject special license or
registration.
Applicants may appeal license application denial or conditional approval by
submitting a request to the business license administrator pursuant to the
appellate process identified within each chapter or in section
5.02.160 of this chapter. (Ord. 05-25 § 1, 2005: Ord. 02-62 § 1, 2002: Ord. 97-
76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.150: REVOCATION:
Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter by the
administrator may be suspended or revoked for the violation by the licensee of
any provisions in this chapter or any other applicable ordinance or law,
failure to pay license fees, or falsification of application. Notification of
business license revocation shall be mailed by the administrator to the
licensee and shall be mailed by certified mail to such licensee. (Ord. 05-25 §
1, 2005: Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.160: APPELLATE PROCESS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide uniform appeals
procedures for business license actions of the city, including application
denial, conditional approval of the license, and license denial, nonrenewal,
revocation, or suspension.
   B.   Exceptions: Exceptions to the use of the appeal process in this section
will occur if an appeal process is detailed otherwise for a special license
within the applicable chapter.
   C.   Filing Appeals:
      1.   All administrative appeals are filed in writing with the business
license administrator ("administrator") in the business license division
("division") of the city of Logan within fifteen (15) calendar days of the
action being appealed. An appeals application not filed in the above specified
division shall not constitute a filing for purposes of meeting the fifteen (15)
day limit.
      2.   Appeals filed with district court shall be filed in conformance with
the requirements of state law and court procedures. Nothing in this chapter is
intended to imply changes to, other procedures for, or otherwise override
standard procedures and time lines of district court.
   D.   Body To Hear Appeals; License Review Board:
      1.   Purpose: The license review board shall act as a governing board
over the business license appellate process when licenses, consents or permits
have been suspended, revoked, denied, or not renewed by the administrator, or
when applications have been denied, or when licenses or applications have been
conditionally approved by the administrator.
      2.   Board Composition: The license review board shall be appointed by
the mayor and shall be comprised of two (2) citizens of Logan and three (3)
employees of the city, including the fire chief, the community development
director, and the chief of police, or their designees. Alternate department
head(s) shall be assigned by the mayor to participate on the board if conflict
of interest issues arise for board members/designees employed by the city. The
business license administrator shall not serve as a member of this board.
      3.   Board Decision: Following the hearing, the board shall render a
decision based on a simple majority vote by a quorum of the board.
      4.   Board Quorum: A quorum shall be comprised of at least three (3)
members of the board with not less than one citizen member of the board
present.
      5.   Split Vote: Should a split vote occur due to an even number of
members present, the decision being appealed will stand.
   E.   Standing To File An Appeal: The licensee, applicant, proponent, or any
affected party may file an appeal of a decision by the administrator. In the
case of death or health related disability of the applicant, rendering that
individual unable to request or participate in the appeal process, the
applicant's designee may proceed on behalf of the applicant.
   F.   Contents Of The Request For An Appeal; Minimum Requirements: At a
minimum the request for an appeal shall be filed in writing and include the
following:
      1.   The name of the person or persons filing the appeal, a mailing
address, and daytime telephone number;
      2.   The business name and the identification number assigned by the
administrator in the action/appeal process notification;
      3.   The date of the action notice;
      4.   Any required appeal application fee;
      5.   The specific issues being appealed:
         a.   If the license was conditionally approved and specific conditions
are being appealed, the request for an appeal shall specify the conditions
being appealed and the reason(s) for the appeal,
         b.   If the license was approved without conditions, the request for
appeal shall specify the actions taken that have generated the appeal request,
         c.   If the application was denied or the license was suspended,
revoked or not renewed, the request for appeal shall specify the findings used
by the administrator or other decision maker(s) that have generated the appeal
request;
      6.   A statement shall be included demonstrating applicant's standing as
set forth in subsection E of this section;
      7.   Incomplete applications are unacceptable. An incomplete application
for an appeal shall not be accepted. Submitting an incomplete application shall
not waive, defer, or delay the fifteen (15) day appeal deadline.
   G.   Staff Report Required: The administrator rendering the decision being
appealed shall provide the board and appellant with a written report or
memorandum explaining the basis of the decision or interpretation.
   H.   Appeal Meeting: Not less than fourteen (14) days following the receipt
of the application for appeal, the license review board shall hold a meeting to
hear the appeal. At that meeting, the board shall hear the administrator's
report including a summary of the action being appealed, clarification by the
other decision maker(s) involved, as needed, and the testimony of the appellant
and any additional proponent(s) of the appeal. The board may take testimony and
comments from the general public, and it may consider new information and facts
in reaching its decision.
   I.   Decision Of The Appeal: The board shall render its decision at the
meeting by majority vote of the members present, unless the matter is continued
to a future meeting pending a request of the board for more information. The
board may overturn the administrator on the basis of its findings, it may
uphold the administrator, or if new information is presented that was not
previously presented to the administrator, the board may return the matter to
the administrator for new proceedings. The action of the board is the final
administrative procedure within the city's process.
   J.   Findings Required To Overturn Or Modify The Decision Maker's Action: If
the board overturns or modifies the action of the administrator, the board
shall make findings substantiated in conformance with the requirements of
procedures for the type of action being appealed. If the board upholds the
appealed action, no additional findings are required, the board's action
automatically affirms the previously adopted findings. The board may, upon
upholding the administrator, add, clarify, or enhance findings based upon the
facts of the appeal meeting. (Ord. 05-25 § 1, 2005: Ord. 02-62 § 1, 2002: Ord.
97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.170: DOING BUSINESS UNLAWFUL AFTER LICENSE DENIED, SUSPENDED OR REVOKED:
If at any time a license is denied, suspended or revoked under the provisions
of this chapter, it shall thereafter be unlawful for any person to conduct a
business for which a license is required at the premises where the license is
suspended or revoked or the application for the license denied until a new
license shall be granted by the administrator or the license under suspension
is reinstated to active status. Every day the business operates while in a
state of denial, revocation or suspension shall be considered a separate
offense subject to citation. (Ord. 05-25 § 1, 2005: Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
ARTICLE III. LICENSE FEES
5.02.190: FEES:
The schedule of fees shall be established and amended from time to time by
resolution of the municipal council. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.200: FEE; ADDITIONAL:
The license fee imposed by this chapter shall be in addition to any and all
other taxes or licenses imposed by any other provisions of the ordinances of
the city. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.210: FEE PAYMENTS; DELINQUENT FEES AND PENALTIES:
Any person who fails to file with the division a return, together with the
required license fee within thirty (30) days of the final day of the license
period shall be immediately liable to pay a penalty fee equal to twenty five
percent (25%) of the annual business license fee for each thirty (30) day
period for which payment was not made not to exceed one hundred percent (100%)
of the cost of the business license, plus the usual license fee. (Ord. 97-76 §
1, 1997)
5.02.220: RENEWAL BILLING PROCEDURE:
Any person more than sixty (60) days delinquent in his or her license fees
shall be considered to be operating a business without a license and a citation
may be issued for engaging in a business without a valid business license, or
legal action may be initiated for collection of the delinquent fees or both.
(Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.230: FEE ADJUSTMENT TO AVOID BURDENING INTERSTATE COMMERCE:
None of the license fees provided in this chapter shall be applied to occasion
an undue burden on interstate commerce. State law requires local governments to
establish license fees based on the cost to the city to regulate and license
the businesses. The city has an interest in not bearing undue burden for
licensing any type of business practice or enterprise. The fee structure
approved by municipal council shall be reasonably related to the actual cost to
the city of the licensing process and uniformly assessed on businesses of like
nature. In any case, where a license fee is believed by a licensee or an
applicant for a license to place an undue burden upon such interstate commerce,
such licensee or applicant may apply to the administrator for an adjustment of
the fee to relieve such burden. The licensee or applicant shall indicate her or
his method of doing business and such other information that may be relevant to
establishing the license category for the fee assessment. The administrator
shall then evaluate the information provided, comparing the subject business
with other businesses of like nature and shall make findings of fact to
determine whether the license is discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair as to
the licensee or applicant from the standpoint of its impact on interstate
commerce. The administrator shall make any adjustments to the license category
and/or fee assessment, if merited, and report to the licensee or applicant any
findings and subsequent action taken. If the applicant or licensee is not
satisfied with the decision of the administrator, he or she may appeal the
decision according to section
5.02.160 of this chapter. (Ord. 05-25 § 1, 2005: Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.240: EXEMPTION OF INSURANCE COMPANIES:
Insurance companies shall apply in all respects for the obtaining of a business
license pursuant to this chapter, but shall not pay a fee unless providing
services that are not exempt from local fees pursuant to state law. The
certificate of authority issued by the state of Utah department of insurance
for that business shall accompany the business license application and shall be
maintained in good standing for the duration of the conduct of such business.
The licensee shall notify the division in writing should additional authorities
be granted the company by the Utah department of insurance. Businesses which
perform services in addition to insurance services licensed by the Utah
department of insurance shall pay fees as set by resolution of the municipal
council and as administered by the business license administrator. (Ord. 05-25
§ 1, 2005: Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.250: UNSPECIFIED FEES OR TIME PERIODS:
The fees and time periods for licenses not specifically set forth elsewhere in
this chapter for the conduct of any business shall be those set forth by
resolution of the municipal council pursuant to section
5.02.210 of this chapter. The licenses shall be effective for the calendar year
in which issued unless specified for a period less than a calendar year. (Ord.
97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.260: MISTAKES IN FEE CALCULATIONS:
In no event shall any mistakes made by an applicant, a licensee or the division
in the calculation of a license fee prevent or prejudice the collection by the
city of amounts actually due from any person subject to licensing or prejudice
the refund to licensees of amounts overpaid by the reason of mistakes. (Ord.
97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.270: DEVIATIONS PROHIBITED:
No greater or lesser amounts shall be charged or received for licenses and no
license shall be issued for any period of time other than as specifically
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.280: DUPLICATE LICENSE; FEE:
The administrator shall not charge a fee for each duplicate license issued to
replace any license issued under the provisions of this chapter when the same
has been lost or destroyed. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.290: REFUNDS:
No refund shall be made against any fee for a license issued pursuant to this
chapter unless such refund is approved by the administrator. (Ord. 97-76 § 1,
1997)
5.02.300: TRANSFERS:
Upon the written consent of the administrator endorsed thereon, licenses issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be transferred from one place of
business to another; provided, that the licensee remains the same; that the new
business site is identified on an application form prescribed by the
administrator, completed and submitted by the licensee to the administrator and
distributed by the administrator to the reviewing authorities; and that the new
site is found compliant with fire, building, zoning and planning, and other
health and safety codes. A transfer fee shall be paid for each such transfer
based on the fee schedule adopted by resolution of the city council. There
shall be no transfers of licenses from one person to another. (Ord. 97-76 § 1,
1997)
ARTICLE IV. ENFORCEMENT
5.02.310: POLICE; APPOINTED INSPECTORS OF LICENSES; POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   All police officers of the city are appointed inspectors of licenses
and, in addition to their several duties as police officers, are empowered and
required in the performance of their duties to examine all places of business
and persons who are required to see that such licenses are in fact valid and
that they are posted in a conspicuous place within the place of business or
displayed as required. Police officers shall have and exercise the power:
      1.   To enter free of charge, at any time, any place of business for
which a license is required; to demand the exhibition of a current license by
any person engaged or employed in the conduct of such business; and if such
person shall then and there fail to exhibit such license, such person shall be
liable for the penalties provided for violation of this chapter;
      2.   To make arrests for the violation of any provisions of this chapter.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the city police officers to cause complaints to
be filed for all persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.320: EFFECT OF CONVICTION; PROSECUTION NOT BARRED:
The conviction and punishment of any person for transacting business without a
license shall not excuse or exempt such person from the payment of any license
fees due or unpaid at the time of such conviction; and nothing in this chapter
shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the provisions of
this title. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
5.02.330: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person or business found doing business without a license may be subject to
citation for a class B misdemeanor unless specified otherwise in any section or
subsection of this chapter. (Ord. 97-76 § 1, 1997)
CHAPTER 5.04
SPECIAL EVENT LICENSES
SECTION:
5.04.010: Definitions
5.04.020: License Required
5.04.030: Application For License
5.04.040: Indemnification And Insurance Required
5.04.050: Review And Approval Process
5.04.010: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
5.02.020 of this title, the following words and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the meanings prescribed in this chapter:
SPECIAL EVENT: Any short term event at a temporary location that is open to the
public for a fee, where the public can participate as a spectator or a
participant. Special events shall also include any event available to the
public that requires the full or partial closure of the public right of way or
the use of city property whether or not a fee is required. Special events
include, but are not limited to, races, concerts, dances, exhibitions,
lectures, parades or other types of entertainment. (Ord. 12-17, 2012)
5.04.020: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every person, before conducting any special event shall first obtain a special
event license and shall pay the regulatory fees as set forth in the schedule of
fees adopted by the municipal council. (Ord. 12-17, 2012)
5.04.030: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   All applications for a special event license shall be made in writing
upon the forms provided by the city.
   B.   In addition to the information required by chapter 5.02 of this title,
an applicant for a special event shall submit the following:
      1.   Complete description of the special event including all the
anticipated elements such as signage, lighting, types of merchandise, types of
food being prepared/sold, alcohol sales, types of live entertainment, sound
systems, temporary structures, temporary power, open flames, amusement rides,
inflatable devices, and/or fireworks.
      2.   A copy of a valid lease or written permission from the property
owner allowing the special event on the property; written permission allowing
the applicant use of toilet facilities within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed business location, signed by the property owner.
      3.   A site plan, drawn to scale, showing the property and its existing
features including buildings, parking stalls, driveways, sidewalks, fire
hydrants; the exact location of the vendor(s) in relation to buildings,
sidewalks, roadways, driveways, fire hydrants and other important features on
the property and photographs and/or illustrations showing all components of the
business including temporary structures, storage bins, trash receptacles and
signage. The site plan and photographs/illustrations shall include all
information necessary to show compliance with the applicable zoning
requirements set forth in chapter 17, land development code.
      4.   If the special event occurs in the public right of way, a detailed
plan identifying the anticipated route, street names, start/finish points,
start/finish times, traffic control plans, traffic fixture locations, and
anticipated street crossings.
      5.   If power is required for the special event, an electrical plan
showing the power source, how it is connected to the temporary structure, how
it is protected from the elements, wire size and location. If it is a new power
source, a temporary electrical permit must be obtained from the city.
      6.   A copy of the special event or temporary business sales tax numbers
issued by the state of Utah.
      7.   Proof of insurance and indemnification agreement as required in
section
5.04.040 of this chapter.
      8.   If the special event involves Utah department of transportation UDOT
managed rights of way, a copy of the UDOT permit. (Ord. 12-17, 2012)
5.04.040: INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Applicant shall agree in writing to indemnify the city and its officials,
employees and agents and to hold them harmless from and against any and all
claims, liability, damage, loss or expense of any kind (including attorney fees
and costs) arising or resulting in any way from the activities of the licensee
on city property, including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks or other
public rights of way. Applicant may be required to maintain insurance in such
types and amounts as deemed necessary by the city and to present a written
certificate of insurance in a form acceptable to the city and verifying said
coverage and naming the city as an additional insured. (Ord. 12-17, 2012)
5.04.050: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   A complete application for a special event license that requires the
full or partial closure of the public right of way or the use of city property
shall be submitted at least forty five (45) days prior to the date of operation
or the day of the event. All other applications shall be submitted fifteen (15)
days prior to the event. Incomplete or late applications may be rejected.
Applicant revisions or modifications to the original application may extend the
date of approval.
   B.   Applications shall be subject to review by code authorities, including
those for public works, planning, zoning, building, fire, police, health, and
others as required for the product, vendor or special event.
   C.   Approvals shall be based on a combination of code compliance in all
applicable areas.
   D.   The applicant must obtain and maintain proper business and sales tax
registration for all aspects of the operation prior to operating.
   E.   Any other factors or circumstances review authorities consider
necessary to protect the public and enhance the community, such as:
      1.   Pedestrian traffic and site compatibility with proposed operation;
and
      2.   Ability of the applicant to manage the operation and maintain
compliance with all laws and local codes; and
   F.   After recommendation by the reviewing agency representatives, the
license administrator may issue the special event license which shall specify
the operational limitations as may be required. (Ord. 12-17, 2012)
CHAPTER 5.06
AGRICULTURAL VENDORS
SECTION:
5.06.010: Definitions
5.06.020: License Required; Display
5.06.030: License Fees
5.06.040: Inspections
5.06.050: Exemptions
5.06.060: Procedure
5.06.070: Unlawful Acts
5.06.010: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
5.02.020 of this title, the following words and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the meanings prescribed in this section:
AGRICULTURAL VENDOR: A person engaged in the sale of fruits and/or vegetables
from stands, motor vehicles or roadsides. (Ord. 05-25 § 2, 2005)
5.06.020: LICENSE REQUIRED; DISPLAY:
It is unlawful for any person to conduct the business of agricultural vendor,
except as exempted in this chapter, without first securing a license for such
business. The licensee shall conspicuously display such license in their place
of business so that the same is plainly visible to the public. (Ord. 05-25 § 2,
2005)
5.06.030: LICENSE FEES:
License fees for licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be the same as
set forth in section
5.02.190 of this title. (Ord. 05-25 § 2, 2005)
5.06.040: INSPECTIONS:
The division reserves the right to inspect any premises or location utilized
for carrying on the business of agricultural vendors to assure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 05-25 § 2, 2005)
5.06.050: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Agricultural vendors who sell only fruits and vegetables produced and
sold from their own homes or property immediately adjoining their own homes are
exempt from the payment of license fees under this chapter; provided, however,
that such agricultural vendors shall nevertheless be required to obtain a
certificate of registration from the Administrator, as provided in section
5.06.060 of this chapter, to assure adequate and safe off street parking at the
place of sale.
   B.   Door to door solicitation to sell fruits and vegetables is regulated
pursuant to the provisions of this title and is exempt from this chapter. (Ord.
05-25 § 2, 2005)
5.06.060: PROCEDURE:
All applicants for a license or certificate of registration under this chapter
must obtain approval from the Planning Division prior to the issuance of a
temporary or annual license or certificate of registration. The Planning
Division shall review each request to assure that adequate and safe parking
exists at the place of sale. All applicants shall receive from, fill out and
file with the division a business license application as required under the
provisions of section
5.02.040 et seq., of this title. The provisions set forth in chapter 5.02 of
this title shall be controlling as to all matters relating to the requirements
for the issuance of a license, license fees, exemptions, renewals, etc. (Ord.
05-25 § 2, 2005)
5.06.070: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It is unlawful for an agricultural vendor to supply an exempted location with
produce grown at nonexempt locations or to sell any merchandise other than
fruits and vegetables at an exempted location. (Ord. 05-25 § 2, 2005)
CHAPTER 5.08
AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS
SECTION:
5.08.010: Definition
5.08.020: License; Fees
5.08.030: License Not Transferable
5.08.040: Receipts For Goods; Commission
5.08.050: Time Of Sales
5.08.060: False Representation
5.08.070: Conduct; Restrictions
5.08.080: Exceptions
5.08.010: DEFINITION:
An "auctioneer" as contemplated in this chapter, is a person who conducts a
public competitive sale of property, not the auctioneer's own, by outcry to the
highest bona fide bidder. (Prior code § 7-2-1)
5.08.020: LICENSE; FEES:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of auctioneer within
the city without first procuring a license so to do. Such auctioneer shall pay
into the city treasury the sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each
three (3) months as an annual license therefor, or the sum of twenty dollars
($20.00) per day, and shall also execute a cash deposit to the city in the
amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00) conditional for faithful observance
of all laws and ordinances of the city, and the honest performance of all
duties required by ordinance, and the protection of all persons dealing with
such auctioneer against all fraud, deception and imposition; the bond to be
approved by the license administrator and filed with the city recorder before
license shall be issued. (Prior code § 7-2-1)
5.08.030: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
Neither the license nor the permit granted under the provisions of this chapter
shall be transferable, nor shall the same be loaned or used by any other
person. (Prior code § 7-2-4)
5.08.040: RECEIPTS FOR GOODS; COMMISSION:
It shall be the duty of all licensed auctioneers to receive all articles which
may be offered them for sale at auction, and give receipts therefor; and at the
close of any sale, which must be made as the owner directs, the auctioneer
shall deliver a fair account of such sale, and pay the amount received for such
articles to the person entitled thereto. (Prior code § 7-2-6)
5.08.050: TIME OF SALES:
All sales of goods, wares and merchandise by public auction in the city must be
made between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. (Prior code § 7-2-2)
5.08.060: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
It is unlawful for any auctioneer when selling or offering for sale at public
auction any goods, wares or merchandise under the provisions of this chapter,
while describing the goods, wares or merchandise with respect to character,
quality, kind or value or otherwise, to make any fraudulent, misleading,
untruthful or unwarranted statements tending in any way to mislead bidders or
to substitute an article sold for another. (Prior code § 7-2-5)
5.08.070: CONDUCT; RESTRICTIONS:
All auctioneers are forbidden to conduct their sales in such manner as to cause
people to gather in crowds on the sidewalks so as to obstruct the same; nor
shall they use obscene language or fighting words in crying their sales; or
make or cause to be made noisy acclamations such as ringing of bells, blowing
of whistles, or otherwise, though not enumerated here, through the streets in
advertising their sales; and no bedlam or crier, drum or fife or other musical
instrument or loudspeaker or amplifier or noise making means of attracting the
attention of passersby, except the customary auctioneer's flags, shall be
employed or suffered to be used at or near any auction room or near any auction
whatsoever. (1989 Code: prior code § 7-2-7)
5.08.080: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any auction held by any court
or officer thereof or any sheriff's sale. (Prior code § 7-2-3)
CHAPTER 5.10
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
Article I. Administration
5.10.010: Application Of Chapter
5.10.020: Policy
5.10.030: Definitions
5.10.040: Licensee Compliance With Other Laws
5.10.050: License Required
5.10.060: Application And Renewal Requirements
5.10.070: Duties Of Division Before Granting Consents
5.10.080: Qualifications
5.10.090: Operational Restrictions
5.10.100: Enforcement
5.10.110: Appellate Process
5.10.120: Emergencies
Article II. Local License Requirements
5.10.200: License Types Not Specified
5.10.210: Live Entertainment
5.10.220: Bar
5.10.230: Tavern
5.10.240: Brew Restaurant
5.10.250: Taproom
5.10.260: Manufacturing
5.10.270: Single Event Permit
ARTICLE I. ADMINISTRATION
5.10.010: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
   The city adopts the state of Utah alcoholic beverage control act (UABC), in
its entirety, as amended from time to time and supplemented by ordinance. It is
the responsibility of any applicant for an alcoholic beverage license, consent
or permit to be in compliance with identified conditions and requirements of
state law and local ordinances prior to making application with the city for
any license (including any license, consent or permit, as the specific
licensing designation may be). It is the obligation of each applicant and
licensee (including any licensee, consentee or permittee) to stay in compliance
with state law and local ordinances regardless of changes to those laws and
ordinances.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024: Ord. 14-75, 2014)
5.10.020: POLICY:
   It has been and is the policy of the city to neither promote nor encourage
the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages, but to license, tax and
regulate the sale or other distribution of alcoholic beverages and protect the
public interest, including the rights of citizens who do not wish to be
involved with alcoholic products.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024: Ord. 96-64 § 1, 1996)
5.10.030: DEFINITIONS:
   By reference the city adopts all definitions contained in the UABC in its
entirety and the changes to such, as amended from time to time, without further
reference and supplemented by the more specific language as defined in the
local ordinances, including:
ADMINISTRATOR OR BUSINESS LICENSE ADMINISTRATOR: The city of Logan business
license administrator.
BAR ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE: Bar establishment license means one of the following
types of licenses as defined by the UABC: a dining club license, equity
license, fraternal license or bar license.
BREW RESTAURANT: A business licensed to manufacture and sell beer for primarily
on premises consumption in connection with a restaurant. A brew restaurant is
also licensed to brew beer in batch sizes that provide enough beer for
primarily sale and consumption on site in connection with the restaurant and
has any licenses subject to the applicable provisions of the DABS. The alcohol
to food sales revenue ratio for a brew restaurant shall comply with the
requirements UABC for a restaurant.
DABS: The Utah department of alcoholic beverage services.
DIVISION: The city of Logan business license division.
HOMEBREW: Means and includes all beer manufactured by individuals and not by
regular licensed brewers by process of malting, brewing or fermentation and
which contains alcohol in one-half of one percent or more by weight.
LICENSE REVIEW AUTHORITIES: Any departmental or other state, county, or city
authorities assigned by the business license administrator to review each
application to ascertain code compliance, including, but not limited to: chief
of the police department; chief of the fire department; community development
department director for zoning, planning and building code compliance; and
health officials at city, county and/or state levels, and their designees.
LOCAL CONSENT: Local business licensing authority to provide written consent to
the Alcoholic Beverage Services Commission to issue an alcohol license.
Application approval by the administrator is based on applicant or consentee
compliance with all terms and conditions under this chapter. Such approval
shall be communicated to the DABS for their license application/renewal review
purposes.
POPULATION: Figures used shall be determined by the most recent U.S. decennial
or special census or by any other population determination made by the United
States government or the state or by calculating the number of residents of
Logan using the municipal population estimate provided by the governor's office
of planning and adding the number of residents on Utah State University
property in the city of Logan boundaries.
TAPROOM: A business licensed to manufacture and sell beer for primarily on
premises consumption in connection with a bar or tavern. A taproom is licensed
to brew beer in batch sizes that provide enough beer for primarily sale and
consumption on site in connection with the tavern and has any licenses subject
to the applicable provisions of the DABS. A taproom shall not exceed five
thousand (5,000) square feet gross floor area.
UABC: The state of Utah alcoholic beverage control act, in its entirety, as
amended.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024: Ord. 14-75, 2014)
5.10.040: LICENSEE COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
   A.   Each licensee shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and
local laws. Failure to do so may result in the suspension or revocation of the
licensee's license, permit or consent.
   B.   If any person neglects, fails or refuses to pay the amount assessed for
the license renewal when it becomes due and payable, a penalty of fifty dollars
($50.00) and ten percent (10%) of the amount of such license shall be added to
the original amount and the same shall be collected as other licenses are
collected and payment thereof is enforced.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024: Ord. 96-64 § 1, 1996)
5.10.050: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of the sale,
manufacturing, packaging, single events, or warehousing of alcohol within the
city without first having procured a license from the city as provided in this
chapter. A separate license shall be required for each place of sale and the
license shall at all times be conspicuously displayed in the place to which it
shall refer or for which it shall be issued.
   B.   The division may issue local consent for businesses located in this
city. State alcohol license issuance shall be determined by the DABS and shall
entitle the consentee to only those privileges they may have by virtue of
having been issued a state liquor license and shall thereafter exercise the
privileges granted them under the UABC only as they are in harmony with the
state license issued and with city code. A local consent to a state liquor
license is required prior to the state's original and annual consideration for
licensure. Such local consent will not be granted until the applicant has met
all applicable city and state requirements.
   C.   A person may not sell or offer for sale any alcoholic beverage subject
to alcohol licensure unless an alcohol license has been issued by the state
following local consent. A separate consent is required for each place of
business and for each premises having different ownership. A separate business
license is required for each business name used.
   D.   The division may prescribe by policy, as consistent with state law, the
general operational requirements of consentees relating to:
      1.   Physical facilities;
      2.   Other matters considered appropriate by the division as they are
allowed by state law.
   E.   The division may grant consents to a state alcohol license when the
applicant is in compliance with all applicable municipal code. Licenses will be
issued based on state application approval and license availability.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024: Ord. 96-64 § 1, 1996)
5.10.060: APPLICATION AND RENEWAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each person seeking an alcohol license under this chapter shall file a
written application with the division, in a form prescribed by the
administrator. It shall be accompanied by:
      1.   A nonrefundable application fee (for a determination of all fees
under this section, refer to the current alcoholic beverage application and
license fee schedule approved by municipal council);
      2.   Any other documents and evidence the division may require by rule or
policy to allow complete evaluation of the application.
   B.   Prior to operating under the authority of this chapter, each approved
applicant must obtain and provide to the business license administrator proof
of:
      1.   Respective state licensure immediately upon state approval (not more
than one year from approval of the original local consent);
      2.   Respective federal licensure immediately upon federal approval.
   C.   All city alcohol licenses expire on December 31 of each year. Persons
desiring to renew their license shall submit a renewal fee no later than
December 31 of the year the license expires. Failure to meet the renewal
requirements results in an automatic forfeiture of the license effective on the
date the existing license expires. Renewal applications shall be in a form
prescribed by the division and shall be accompanied by the license renewal fee.
   D.   If any alcohol license holder does not immediately notify the division
of any change in the ownership of the entity holding the consent, or in the
case of a Utah corporate owner of any change in the corporate officers or
directors, the division may suspend or revoke that license.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024: Ord. 96-64 § 1, 1996)
5.10.070: DUTIES OF DIVISION BEFORE GRANTING CONSENTS:
   Before any local consent may be granted or city alcohol license may be
issued by the administrator, the division may conduct investigations and hold
on site inspections of the premises by license review authorities as directed
by the administrator for the purpose of gathering information and making
recommendations to the administrator to aid in the determination regarding
licensure. Reviews and inspections conducted by license review authorities
include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Conformance with all appropriate building codes, as inspected and
verified by the building inspection division of the community development
department;
   B.   Police and criminal background check and clearance by the city police
department;
   C.   Zoning and planning review by the community development department to
address issues of locality, proximity, building design and conformance with
relative code;
   D.   Fire department inspections of premises and determination of code
compliance;
   E.   Reviews and inspections by various health officers, including city and
state representatives making determinations regarding hazardous waste, solid
waste, environmental health, pretreatment requirements, and other health issues
which may be presented;
   F.   Division review for state and federal identification of business,
including identification of the business ownership and entity structure,
employer's withholding account number, federal employer identification number,
state sales and use tax number, workers' compensation insurance carrier policy
number and expiration date, business name registration number, and Utah
corporate identification number or limited liability company identification
number (when applicable);
   G.   Division review for complete information on the application, including
the provision of:
      1.   Authorized signature on the application and written evidence of said
authority;
      2.   Appropriate application and license fees; and
      3.   Any other documentation considered necessary to render a
determination.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024: Ord. 96-64 § 1, 1996)
5.10.080: QUALIFICATIONS:
   If any person to whom an alcohol license has been issued under this chapter
no longer possesses the qualifications required by this chapter and UABC for
obtaining that license, the business license administrator may suspend or
revoke that license.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024)
5.10.090: OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
   Each entity issued an alcohol license shall conform to all the operational
restrictions assigned by the UABC, including the following conditions:
   A.   Transfers will not be granted from one person, partnership or
corporation to another person, partnership or corporation.
   B.   There shall be no transfer of an alcohol license from one location to
another without prior written approval of the administrator. Transfers may be
granted for a change of location within the city by the original licensee
providing all qualifying conditions are met.
   C.   Each separate location must be separately licensed.
   D.   Each location with more than one type of operation, more than one
business name, or more than one specific ownership must have a separate license
and/or consent for each and must submit applications for licensure which
includes diagrams depicting the boundaries of the premises for each as well as
defining the distinctive operations.
   E.   It is unlawful to sell, serve, or give away alcoholic beverages except
during the hours allowed by state law.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024)
5.10.100: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any alcohol license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
by the administrator may be suspended or revoked for the violation by the
licensee of any provisions in this chapter or any other applicable ordinance or
law, failure to pay license fees, or falsification of application.
   B.   Violation of this section are subject to Administrative Enforcement
provisions of the Land Development Code Chapter 17.60 and is a class B
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024)
5.10.110: APPELLATE PROCESS:
   Appeal from any decision regarding alcohol license transfer, probation,
conditional approval, denial, revocation, suspension or nonrenewal shall be
pursuant to the appellate process identified in section
5.02.160 of this title.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024: Ord. 02-62 § 1, 2002: Ord. 96-64 § 1,
1996)
5.10.120: EMERGENCIES:
   A.   Upon the declaration of an emergency, as defined by Utah law, all
alcohol beverage licenses are automatically suspended, which suspension may be
lifted by the mayor at any time.
   B.   It is unlawful for the holder of any license issued under this chapter
or the holder's agent, employee, manager or representative to sell or serve
beer during the period of temporary suspension. Any violation hereof shall
constitute a class B misdemeanor.
   C.   In addition, the business license administrator, after notice and
hearing, may revoke or suspend any license issued under this chapter for any
violation of this section.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024: Ord. 14-75, 2014: Ord. 96-64 § 1, 1996)
ARTICLE II. LOCAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
5.10.200: LICENSE TYPES NOT SPECIFIED:
   UABC license types that are not specifically referenced in this section are
allowed in the city subject to zoning, local license shall be required.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024)
5.10.210: LIVE ENTERTAINMENT:
   Any duly licensed business establishments which sell alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises which permit their patrons to dance or entertains
their patrons with live performers who sing or dance shall obtain a cabaret
license.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024)
5.10.220: BAR:
   The division may grant consent to a state bar establishment license based on
one per ten thousand (10,000) population.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024)
5.10.230: TAVERN:
   A.   The division may grant local consents to a tavern based on one per ten
thousand (10,000) population.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024)
5.10.240: BREW RESTAURANT:
   A.   A brew restaurant is licensed to brew beer in batch sizes that provide
enough beer for primarily sale and consumption on site in connection with the
restaurant and has any licenses subject to the applicable provisions of the
DABS.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024)
5.10.250: TAPROOM:
   A.   A taproom is licensed to manufacture and sell beer for primarily on
premises consumption in connection with a bar or tavern. A taproom is licensed
to brew beer in batch sizes that provide enough beer for primarily sale and
consumption on site in connection with the bar or tavern and has any licenses
subject to the applicable provisions of the DABS.
   B.   A taproom is subject to the bar or tavern population limits.
   C.   A taproom shall not exceed five thousand (5,000) square feet.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024)
5.10.260: MANUFACTURING:
   Manufacturing is permitted and subject to zoning. See Logan Municipal Code
Title 17, Logan Land Development Code.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024)
5.10.270: SINGLE EVENT PERMIT:
   Entities seeking a Single Event Permit from the State shall also apply for a
Special Event license from Logan City if applicable. A fifty dollars ($50.00)
administrative fee will be charged to process Single Event Local Consent
applications that do not require a Special Event license from Logan City.
(Ord. 24-13, 2024: Ord. 24-04, 2024)
CHAPTER 5.12
ELECTRONIC AND MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
5.12.010: Definitions
5.12.020: Classifications
5.12.030: Music Boxes; Violation; Penalty
5.12.040: License Fees
5.12.050: Gambling Devices Prohibited
5.12.060: Regulations And Restrictions
5.12.070: Violation
5.12.010: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
5.02.020 of this title, the following words and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the meanings prescribed in this section:
EXHIBITOR: A person on whose premises an amusement device may be located
pursuant to arrangement with the owner of such device.
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any machine, device or contrivance
designed or intended to be operated or used for amusement or the playing of a
game, whether or not registering a score, upon or in response to the payment of
some type of coin, slug, token, plate or disc or upon the payment of a
consideration. Such term shall also include such devices as marble machines;
pinball machines; skill balls; mechanical grab machines which yield prizes;
electronic skill games of all types; and all games, operations or transactions
similar thereto, however called or by whatever name may be indicated. (Prior
code § 7-7-1)
5.12.020: CLASSIFICATIONS:
Amusement devices are classified as follows:
   A.   Class A: All amusement devices that permit the player to win free games
by a high score or by any system of reward.
   B.   Class B: All amusement devices that do not have provisions for
additional games and all electronic and video skill games regardless of
provisions for additional games.
   C.   Class C: All amusement devices known as claw, scoop or grab machines
wherein upon payment of a consideration a player manipulates the device or
parts thereof in expectation of receiving a prize.
   D.   Class D: Coin operated music machines, known as jukeboxes.
   E.   Class E: Table devices such as pool, billiards, football, air hockey,
shuffleboard, etc.
   F.   Class F: Children's ride on machines and all others not classified
above. (Prior code § 7-7-2)
5.12.030: MUSIC BOXES; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who keeps any amusement device, music box or other game or
device available to the public operated by the depositing of a coin or coins
therein and which is automatically or manually controlled and intended for the
amusement of the patrons of any place of business wherein the same is located,
shall have placed in a conspicuous place on such amusement device, music box or
other game or device the name and address of the owner and operator thereof.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided, any person convicted of violating any
provisions of this section is guilty of an infraction. (1989 Code: prior code
§§ 12-1-3, 12-6-2)
5.12.040: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Owners of amusement devices, as such devices are defined and classified
in sections
5.12.010,
5.12.020 and
5.12.050 of this chapter, shall pay a license fee to the division as follows:
all classes twenty five dollars ($25.00) per annum per device.
   B.   Fee payments and as well as renewal billings shall be governed by the
provisions of sections
5.02.210 and
5.02.220 of this title. (Prior code § 7-7-4)
5.12.050: GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED:
Nothing in this chapter shall in any way be construed to authorize, license or
permit the use of any gambling devices whatsoever, or any mechanism that has
been judicially determined to be a gambling device, or gambling or amusement
devices, or any other such action contrary to law. (Prior code § 7-7-3)
5.12.060: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
The licenses provided for in this chapter relative to amusement devices in all
classes shall be subject to the following regulations and restrictions:
   A.   The license fee for amusement devices shall be paid by the owner of
such devices, not the exhibitor. Where the owner of the devices and the
exhibitor are the same, the revenue derived from the amusement devices shall be
included in the gross receipts of the business, for the computation of fee
stated in section
5.02.190 of this title.
   B.   An identification sticker shall be posted conspicuously near each
amusement device which shall indicate that such device is licensed for the
current year.
   C.   Amusement devices may be rotated by the owner thereof from one location
to another as long as the total number of machines does not increase.
   D.   If the licensee shall move his place of business to another location
within the city, the license for the devices may be transferred to such new
location upon application to the division.
   E.   Every amusement device license issued under this chapter is subject to
the right, which is expressly reserved, to revoke the same should the licensee,
directly or indirectly, permit the operation of any amusement device contrary
to the provisions of this chapter, the ordinances of the city, or the laws of
the state. Such licenses may be revoked.
   F.   If any amusement device is being used as a gambling device, such
machine may be seized, impounded and disposed of pursuant to the procedures
established in the applicable section of the Utah Code Annotated. (Prior code §
7-7-5(a) – (f))
5.12.070: VIOLATION:
It is a misdemeanor to falsify any information on any application for license
under this chapter. (Prior code § 7-7-5(g))
CHAPTER 5.14
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
SECTION:
5.14.010: License Required; Agencies For Teachers Excepted
5.14.020: License; Application
5.14.030: License; Fee; Bond
5.14.010: LICENSE REQUIRED; AGENCIES FOR TEACHERS EXCEPTED:
It is unlawful for any person to open and establish in the city any
intelligence or employment office for the purpose of procuring or obtaining for
money or other valuable consideration, either directly or indirectly, any work
or employment for persons seeking the same, or to otherwise engage in such
business, or in any way to act as a broker or go-between between employers and
persons seeking work, without first having obtained a license so to do from the
city. Any person performing any of these services shall be deemed to be an
employment agent within the meaning of this chapter. This chapter shall not
apply to any person operating agencies for schoolteachers. (Prior code § 7-15-1
(a))
5.14.020: LICENSE; APPLICATION:
Any person applying for a license under the provisions of this chapter shall
make application to the business license administration for the same and shall
deposit with the city in advance the usual ten dollar ($10.00) business license
application fee, plus the annual fee for such license evidenced by receipt of
the city endorsed on the application. If the business license administrator
refuses to issue the license to the party applying for the same, the annual
business license fee shall be refunded to the applicant. (Prior code § 7-15-1
(b))
5.14.030: LICENSE; FEE; BOND:
Any person licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall pay an annual
license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). Before any such license shall be issued,
the person shall deposit with the city a surety bond in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). The bond shall be made payable to the city and shall be
conditioned that the person applying for the license will comply with this
section and will pay all damages occasioned to any person by reason of any
misstatement, misrepresentation, fraud or deceit of any person, or by any other
violation of this section in carrying on the business for which the license is
granted. (Prior code § 7-15-1(c))
CHAPTER 5.15
SHORT TERM RENTALS
SECTION:
5.15.010: Definitions
5.15.020: Purpose
5.15.030: License Required
5.15.040: License Application
5.15.050: License Fee
5.15.060: License Renewal
5.15.070: Local Property Manager Required
5.15.080: Required Posting
5.15.090: Limitation On Total Number Of Short Term Rental Licenses
5.15.100: Minimum Requirements
5.15.110: Inspections
5.15.120: Penalties
5.15.010: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
5.02.020 of this title, the following words and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the meanings prescribed in this chapter:
 
                   Temporary lodging typically located in a residential
                   dwelling for charge or fee and for a rental period of less
SHORT TERM RENTAL: than thirty (30) continuous days. A short term rental
                   excludes hotels, motels, or bed and breakfast
                   establishments. (Ord. 22-08, 5-3-2022)
 
5.15.020: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to accomplish the following:
   A.   To promote the public health, safety and welfare by requiring short-
term rental to be safe and fit for human occupancy;
   B.   To provide contact information, through licensing, for each short-term
rental to allow problems to be resolved expeditiously; and
   C.   To provide consistency with licensing of all other businesses in the
city by requiring licensing of short-term rentals. (Ord. 22-08, 5-3-2022)
5.15.030: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or firm to keep, conduct, operate or
maintain a short-term rental within the city without a business license.
   B.   A business license for a short-term rental is not transferable. Any
owner holding a license shall give written notice within thirty (30) days to
the business license official after having transferred or otherwise disposed of
legal or equitable control of any short-term rental. Such notice of transferred
interest shall include the name, address, and information regarding the person
(s) or entity succeeding to the ownership or control thereof. The new owner
shall obtain a business license within thirty (30) days of the date of purchase
and as required by this Chapter. (Ord. 22-08, 5-3-2022)
5.15.040: LICENSE APPLICATION:
An application for a short term rental business license shall conform to the
requirements of Section
5.02.050 of this title and shall include the following additional information:
   A.   A detailed floor plan drawn to scale with labels on rooms indicating
uses or proposed uses;
   B.   A detailed site plan identifying location and numbers of off-street
parking spaces;
   C.   A copy of the Utah State tax license number for remittance of transient
lodging taxes;
   D.   The name and contact information of the owner, and if applicable, the
designated local contact, residing in the state of Utah, who is authorized by
the owner for service of process.
   E.   If located in a residential zone, a copy of the Conditional Use Permit
issued by Logan City for the short term vacation rental. (Ord. 22-08, 5-3-2022)
5.15.050: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   The fee for a short-term rental license shall be as set forth in the
consolidated fee schedule adopted by the municipal council.
   B.   The business license shall be paid annually and shall be due and
payable on or before the license expiration date of owner's application for a
business license. A license shall be delinquent if paid after said date in the
year for which it is due. (Ord. 22-08, 5-3-2022)
5.15.060: LICENSE RENEWAL:
   A.   A renewal application for a business license shall conform to the
requirements of Section
5.02.050 of this title. The owner shall include with their renewal application
evidence that minimum Utah State Sales Tax and Transient Taxes were submitted
for the prior year.
   B.   Failure to renew the business license within thirty (30) days of the
license expiration date may result in revocation of the license and subject the
property to the license limitations in Section
5.15.090. (Ord. 22-08, 5-3-2022)
5.15.070: LOCAL CONTACT/PROPERTY MANAGER REQUIRED:
   A.   All short-term rental properties shall have a designated local contact
or property manager that resides within one (1) hour travel time of the
property. The property owner shall provide the registered local contact
person's contact information at the time of registration. A property owner may
contract with a private security company that is licensed to conduct business
with the City to act as the designated local contact. The local contact shall
be available twenty-four (24) hours per day to respond to questions or
concerns.
   B.   Upon receipt of a notification regarding a complaint, the designated
local contact shall contact the occupant of the short term rental and resolve
the issue giving rise to the complaint. The designated local contact shall have
sixty (60) minutes from the time of notification of a complaint to resolve the
problem giving rise to the complaint. Failure to resolve the problem within
sixty (60) minutes shall constitute a violation of this code unless the
designated local contact can demonstrate that they contacted the occupant of
the short term rental within sixty (60) minutes and attempted to resolve the
problem but were unable to do so. In that event, the designated local contact
shall visit the short term rental property to address the problem and resolve
the complaint if reasonably possible within sixty (60) minutes thereafter.
   C.   Failure to resolve any complaints to the Department of Community
Development as required in this Section, may be a violation of this Chapter and
may be cause for the issuance of enforcement action, administrative fines and
potential termination of licensing pursuant to Section
5.15.120. Violations of this Section shall be considered separate and
independent from any violation of any other provision of
Chapter 5.15 or of the Land Development Code. The City may take enforcement
action against a short-term rental for any violation of this Section separately
from and in addition to any enforcement action taken to address the violation
underlying the complaint, if any. (Ord. 22-08, 5-3-2022)
5.15.080: REQUIRED POSTING:
The following information must be posted in a clear, concise, and unambiguous
manner in a conspicuous location inside all short term rentals:
   A.   A copy of the short term rental license.
   B.   The name, address, and phone number of the owner and/or property
manager.
   C.   Emergency exit plan and the location of all fire extinguishers.
   D.   A list of all rules applicable to short term rentals.
   E.   The maximum occupancy of the short term rental, the maximum number of
vehicles allowed, and the location of all parking stalls. (Ord. 22-08, 5-3-
2022)
5.15.090: LIMITATION ON TOTAL NUMBER OF SHORT TERM RENTAL LICENSES:
The total number of short term rental licenses issued shall be limited in
accordance with the following:
   A.   The maximum number of short term rental licenses issued citywide shall
be proportionate to the total population of the City and is limited to three
(3) licenses for every one thousand (1,000) of total population.
   B.   The total number of licenses available each year shall be re-calculated
based on the City's most current population as of July 1st using the American
Community Survey (ACS) data, U.S. Census data, or official State of Utah
population numbers.
   C.   If, after the maximum number of licenses has been issued, an
application meeting all other requirements for issuance of a license shall be
placed on a waiting list in order of the date of receipt. No fees will be due
until a license becomes available. When a license becomes available, the first
applicant on the waiting list shall be notified of the license availability,
and the applicant shall have thirty (30) days from the date of such notice to
file an updated and complete application, pay the filing fee, and sixty (60)
days to complete the licensing process. In the event that the applicant fails
to file a complete application and filing fee within thirty (30) days or fails
to complete the licensing process within sixty (60) days, the application shall
be deemed to have expired, and the next applicant will be notified of the
license availability, and the same procedure shall apply.
   D.   In the event of a sale or other transfer of any property containing a
dwelling licensed as a short term vacation rental, the purchaser or transferee
of the property shall be required to apply for a new license within thirty (30)
days of the date of purchase. In the event that the purchaser or transferee
fails to apply for a new license within said thirty (30) days, the license will
be forfeited, and the owner must reapply for any available license or be placed
on the waiting list. (Ord. 22-08, 5-3-2022)
5.15.100: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each short term rental unit shall meet the zoning and building code
requirements for installation, maintenance, and operation in effect at the time
the short-term rental unit was legally permitted.
   B.   Each sleeping room must meet current international code requirements
for egress and be equipped with smoke and CO2 detectors. A fire exiting plan
and maximum occupancy number must be posted in each sleeping room.
   C.   A Conditional Use Permit shall be issued for all short term rentals in
residential zones prior to the issuance of a business license.
   D.   Each short term rental shall comply with the noise standards in LMC
Chapter 8.16 Sound and Vibration. Quiet hours shall be established, posted, and
enforced for the short term rental and which shall be between the hours of ten
o’clock (10:00) p.m. and eight o’clock (8:00) a.m.
   E.   The short term rental owner and designated local contact, upon
notification that the short term rental occupants and/or their guests have
created unreasonable noise or disturbances or violated provisions of the Logan
Municipal Code pertaining to noise or disorderly conduct, will promptly act
within sixty (60) minutes to prevent continuation and/or a recurrence of such
conduct by those short term rental occupants and/or their guests.
   F.   No later than ten (10) days following the issuance of a short term
rental license, the property owner shall disseminate the designated local
contact information, a copy of the Conditional Use Permit, and a copy of the
short term rental license to all properties located within a three hundred
(300) foot radius of the short term rental. The property owner shall also mail
the same information to each property owner of record as listed with the Cache
County Assessor's office within the three hundred (300) foot radius. Proof of
mailing and a copy of the information sent to residents and adjoining property
owners shall be provided to Community Development within fourteen (14) days of
mailing. (Ord. 22-08, 5-3-2022)
5.15.110: INSPECTIONS:
Inspections of short-term rental units may be conducted pursuant to Chapter
5.02.090, Logan Municipal Code.
   A.   The City or other authorized agency shall conduct a life safety
inspection of the short term rental at the time of application for the initial
short term rental license. License renewals will not automatically require
subsequent re-inspections unless subsection
5.15.110.B necessitates additional re-inspections.
   B.   The City or other authorized agency shall be permitted to make an
inspection of any short-term rental unit to enforce any part of this title or
any other applicable statute or ordinance if the short-term rental unit has a
recorded and valid complaint. Complaints may be submitted by any person
including a city employee.
   C.   Except in emergencies, as determined by the city, the business license
official shall make a reasonable effort to make an appointment with the owner
or other responsible person at least one week in advance of the inspection. The
owner or other responsible person shall inform the occupant(s) of the short-
term rental unit of the appointed time of inspection. If an appointment cannot
be arranged after a reasonable effort or if the appointment is not attended by
the owner or other responsible person, an inspector or other authorized agent
of the city may enter the building or may enter upon the premises during
regular business hours if an occupant consents to the inspector entering the
property.
   D.   No owner, occupant, or any other person having charge, care, or control
of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made
as herein provided, to properly permit entry therein by the business license
official or their designee for the purpose of inspection and examination to
ensure compliance with this title. If the property owner or other responsible
person refuses to allow an inspection, the business license official or their
designee may obtain and execute an administrative search warrant. (Ord. 22-08,
5-3-2022)
5.15.120: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and may also be subject to enforcement action
pursuant to section 17.60 of the Logan City Administrative Enforcement Code.
   B.   In the event of three or more violations of this Chapter or the Logan
City Land Development Code committed by an owner or guest, or any combination
of the two, within any twelve (12)-month period, the City may, depending on the
nature or extent of the violations, proceed with revocation of the short term
rental license for any short term rental property in accordance with the
provisions of
Chapter 5.02 of the Logan Municipal Code. (Ord. 22-08, 5-3-2022)
CHAPTER 5.16
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
5.16.010: Definitions
5.16.020: Exemptions
5.16.030: License Required; Display
5.16.040: License; Application; Procedure
5.16.050: Inspections
5.16.060: Zoning Requirements
5.16.010: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
5.02.020 of this title, the following words and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the meanings prescribed in this section:
HOME OCCUPATION: Any business activity conducted or operated from or in a
residential premises within the City which is secondary to and compatible with
the residential use of the property. (Prior Code § 7-4-1; amd. Ord. 24-19, 9-
17-2024)
5.16.020: EXEMPTIONS:
The City will not require a business license for a home occupation, unless the
combined offsite impact of the home-based business and the primary residential
use materially exceeds the offsite impact of the primary residential use alone.
Home occupations that are exempt from licensing remain subject to other state
and local business licensing regulations, including those found in Title 17 of
the Logan Land Development Code.
A home occupation owner who is otherwise exempt from licensing but would still
like to have a local business license may obtain one by making application with
the Logan City Business Licensing Division. The business will be charged an
administrative fee for application and renewal as shown on the Logan City fee
schedule. (Ord. 24-19, 9-17-2024)
5.16.030: LICENSE REQUIRED; DISPLAY:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in a home occupation that does not meet
the exemption requirements of this chapter without first securing a license.
The licensee shall conspicuously display such license in his place of business
so that the same is plainly visible to the public. (Prior Code § 7-4-2; amd.
Ord. 24-19, 9-17-2024)
5.16.040: LICENSE; APPLICATION; PROCEDURE:
Applicants for a license required by this chapter must obtain permission for
the issuance of a home occupation permit from the City Zoning Administrator.
The Zoning Administrator shall review each request in view of the definitions
of permitted home occupations as outlined in the zoning ordinance. Upon
presenting an approved permit from the Zoning Administrator to the division,
the applicant shall receive from, fill out and file with the division a
business license application as required under the provisions of
chapter 5.02 of this title. The provisions set forth in the chapter shall be
controlling as to all matters relating to the requirements for and issuance of
a license, license fees, exemptions, renewals, etc. (Prior Code § 7-4-3; amd.
Ord. 24-19, 9-17-2024)
5.16.050: INSPECTIONS:
The division reserves the right to inspect any premises used for a home
occupation which presents a potential danger to the public health, morals or
welfare but does not require all such premises to be inspected. (Prior Code §
7-4-5; amd. Ord. 24-19, 9-17-2024)
5.16.060: ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
Home occupations shall comply with all zoning requirements. (Prior Code § 7-4-
6)
CHAPTER 5.17
OWNERS OF RENTAL DWELLINGS
SECTION:
5.17.010: Definitions
5.17.020: Purpose
5.17.030: License Required
5.17.040: License Application
5.17.050: License Procedure
5.17.060: License Fee
5.17.070: Effect Of License Issuance
5.17.080: License Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation
5.17.090: Minimum Requirements
5.17.095: Owners And Agents; Notice Of Occupancy Limitations
5.17.100: Inspections
5.17.110: Effective Date
5.17.120: Penalties
5.17.010: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
5.02.020 of this title, the following words and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the meanings prescribed in this section:
OWNER: A person who is recognized by law as the owner of real property.
RENTAL DWELLING: A building or portion of a building used or designated for use
as a legally established dwelling unit and is arranged, designed, or built and
is available to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a period of one
month or longer. (Ord. 13-52, 2013)
5.17.020: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to accomplish the following:
   A.   To promote public health, safety and welfare by requiring rental
dwellings to be safe and fit for human occupancy,
   B.   To ensure that all rental dwellings were established legally and
constructed compliant with the building code at the time of establishment,
   C.   To provide contact information, through licensing, for each rental
dwelling to allow problems to be resolved expeditiously, and
   D.   To provide consistency with licensing of all other businesses in the
city by requiring licensing of owners who rent dwellings. (Ord. 10-15 § 1,
2010)
5.17.030: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner to keep, conduct, operate or maintain a
rental dwelling within the city without a business license. An owner of
multiple rental dwellings or multiple buildings containing rental dwellings is
not required to obtain more than one business license for the operation and
maintenance of those rental dwellings.
   B.   A business license for owners is not transferable. Any owner holding a
license shall give written notice within thirty (30) days to the business
license official after having transferred or otherwise disposed of legal or
equitable control of any rental dwelling. Such notice of transferred interest
shall include the name, address, and information regarding the person(s) or
entity succeeding to the ownership or control thereof. The new owner shall
obtain a business license as required by this chapter.
   C.   A business license shall not be required for a dwelling unit which is
ordinarily owner occupied but is temporarily rented because:
      1.   The owner is placed in a hospital, nursing home, assisted living
facility or other similar facility, or
      2.   The owner has a bona fide, temporary absence of three (3) years or
less for activities such as temporary job assignments, sabbaticals, or
voluntary service. Indefinite periods of absence from the dwelling shall not
qualify for this exception.
      3.   As used in this subsection "owner occupancy" means:
         a.   A natural person who possesses fifty percent (50%) ownership or
more in the dwelling and said dwelling is the primary residence of such person;
or
         b.   A family trust created for the primary purpose of estate planning
by one or more trustors who create the trust, place the dwelling in such trust,
and whose primary residence is such dwelling. (Ord. 13-52, 2013)
5.17.040: LICENSE APPLICATION:
An application for a business license shall conform to the requirements of
section
5.02.060 of this title and shall include the following additional information:
   A.   The address of each rental dwelling which is owned, operated or
maintained by the applicant;
   B.   The name, address, and both home and business telephone numbers of the
owner, and if applicable, an agent, residing in the state of Utah, who is
authorized by the owner for service of process;
   C.   The signature of the owner of the rental dwelling(s) certifying, to the
best of the owner's knowledge or belief, that the use and occupancy of the
rental dwelling(s) conforms to applicable ordinances. (Ord. 13-52, 2013)
5.17.050: LICENSE PROCEDURE:
   A.   A landlord business license shall be issued pursuant to the
requirements of this title except as modified by this chapter.
   B.   An owner or the owner's agent shall declare, at the time of
application, all rental dwellings and locations.
   C.   An evaluation will be conducted for each rental dwelling to determine
eligibility for a landlord business license. Eligibility for a landlord
business license will be determined on the basis of the following criteria:
      1.   Rental dwelling(s) is located within zoning districts which allow
the same type of occupancy and residential uses, and
      2.   Any remaining rental dwelling(s) which does not meet the conditions
of the criterion in subsection C1 of this section shall have been determined
legally existing nonconforming (grandfathered). Those rental dwellings that are
not eligible for licensing based on grandfathered status will be required to
apply for grandfathered status.
   D.   A business license shall be issued to the owner when all application
and eligibility requirements of this chapter and other applicable ordinances
have been fulfilled. (Ord. 13-52, 2013)
5.17.060: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   The fee for a landlord business license shall be as set forth in the
consolidated fee schedule adopted by the municipal council.
   B.   The business license fee shall be paid annually and shall be due and
payable on or before the license expiration date of owner's application for
business license. A license shall be delinquent if paid after said date in the
year for which it is due.
   C.   The city may choose to have a voluntary good landlord program where a
portion of the licensing fee may be used to inform owners and managers of
improved management practices and to educate about city codes pertinent to
rental housing. Fees will be collected by the city as set forth in the
consolidated fee schedule and a designated portion may be used by the city to
purchase training and materials to promote better rental practices. (Ord. 13-
52, 2013)
5.17.070: EFFECT OF LICENSE ISSUANCE:
The issuance of a landlord business license shall not have the effect of
changing the legal status of a rental dwelling, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Legalizing an illegally created dwelling unit, use, or other
circumstance, or
   B.   Recognizing a nonconformity. (Ord. 10-15 § 1, 2010)
5.17.080: LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION:
An application for a landlord business license may be denied, suspended, or
revoked for any of the following reasons:
   A.   The applicant does not meet the qualifications for a license as
provided in this title.
   B.   For a new application, nonpayment and return of a check for the
required license fee. For a renewal application, nonpayment of the required
license fee plus any penalty assessed for late payment.
   C.   An application contains false or incomplete information.
   D.   The rental dwelling does not comply with applicable health department
regulations governing the premises, or any city, state or federal law.
   E.   For an existing license, the licensee has allowed the licensed premises
to be occupied, operated or maintained in a manner contrary to the conditions
set forth in the license, this title or any other law. (Ord. 10-15 § 1, 2010)
5.17.090: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
Each rental dwelling shall meet the zoning and building code requirements for
installation, maintenance, and operation in effect at the time the rental
dwelling was legally permitted. (Ord. 10-15 § 1, 2010)
5.17.095: OWNERS AND AGENTS; NOTICE OF OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Owners or agents shall provide to the lessee of any residential
property that the owner or agent leases, information regarding the zoning
district in which the property is located and the applicable occupancy
limitations contained in the Logan land development code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to lease or sublease any rental
dwelling without first providing to the lessee or sublessee notice of the
occupancy limits in the zone in which the property is located pursuant to the
Logan land development code. The notice shall either be contained in the
written lease or shall be on a zoning occupancy disclosure form provided by the
director and signed by the owner or agent and each lessee. All current zoning
occupancy disclosure forms and leases for the property shall be maintained by
the owner or agent.
   C.   Owners and agents shall provide a written lease containing tenant
information or a zoning occupancy disclosure form within seven (7) days of a
request by a city code official or police officer investigating any code
violation. (Ord. 13-54, 2013)
5.17.100: INSPECTIONS:
Inspections of rental dwellings may be conducted as allowed by state law. (Ord.
13-52, 2013)
5.17.110: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The provisions of this chapter shall take effect on March 2, 2010, after which
no rental dwelling shall be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a period
of one month or longer without a valid business license. (Ord. 10-15 § 1, 2010)
5.17.120: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and may also be subject to enforcement action pursuant to
section 17.60 of the Logan City administrative enforcement code. (Ord. 10-15 §
1, 2010)
CHAPTER 5.18
ITINERANT OR TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
5.18.010: Definitions
5.18.020: License Required
5.18.030: Applications; License; Term
5.18.040: Responsible Party Identification
5.18.050: Conditions And Requirements; Number Of Itinerant Or Transient
Merchants Permitted On A Property
5.18.060: Review And Approval Process
5.18.010: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
5.02.020 of this title, the following words and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the meanings prescribed in this chapter:
ITINERANT OR TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who offers for sale at wholesale or
retail any goods, wares or merchandise in or from any hotel, stall, tent,
building, structure, stand, field, corner or other place in the City and who
shall not occupy the place for the purpose of conducting a permanent business
thereon or therein shall be deemed an itinerant or transient merchant. The
organizer of a single event that consists of multiple vendors at any one time
may obtain one (1) license under this chapter. (Ord. 17-10, 2017)
5.18.020: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to conduct the business of an itinerant or
transient merchant without first securing a license for each place to be so
operated. The licensee shall conspicuously display such license so that the
same is plainly visible to the public. The division shall collect a license fee
from each itinerant or transient merchant as set forth in the schedule of fees
adopted by the Municipal Council. (Ord. 17-10, 2017)
5.18.030: APPLICATIONS; LICENSE; TERM:
   A.   All applications for a license under this chapter shall be made to and
upon forms provided by the division, shall require that the applicant have a
current State sales tax number and written permission from the owner of the
property where the itinerant or transient merchant is to do business, and shall
have written permission allowing the applicant use of toilet facilities within
three hundred feet (300') of the proposed business location, signed by the
property owner.
   B.   A complete application for a license shall be submitted at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the date of operation. Incomplete or late
applications may be rejected. Applicant revisions or modifications to the
original application may extend the date of approval.
   C.   Upon the granting of a license, the division shall issue a temporary
business license signed by the Director. The license shall show the name of the
licensee, the business or occupation to be carried on thereunder, the place
where the licensed business is to be carried on if at a fixed place, and the
date of expiration of such license.
   D.   All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter for a single itinerant or
transient merchant shall expire as follows:
      1.   The license for an itinerant or transient merchant is valid for up
to one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of issuance.
   E.   The organizer of a single event that consists of multiple vendors at
any one time may obtain one (1) license under this chapter upon satisfaction of
the following conditions:
      1.   The license for a single event consisting of multiple vendors at any
one time is valid for up to fourteen (14) days after the date of issuance.
(Ord. 17-10, 2017)
5.18.040: RESPONSIBLE PARTY IDENTIFICATION:
Each applicant, whether a partnership, sole proprietorship or corporation,
shall designate an individual for whom the business shall be responsible, and
this individual shall:
   A.   Provide a valid driver's license or other governmental issued ID
(passport, military ID, etc.). (Ord. 17-10, 2017)
5.18.050: CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS; NUMBER OF ITINERANT OR TRANSIENT
MERCHANTS PERMITTED ON A PROPERTY:
Each itinerant or transient merchant shall abide by the following conditions
and requirements:
   A.   An itinerant or transient merchant may operate between the hours of
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. On a temporary basis,
extended hours may be approved by the Director of Community Development, upon
application by the merchant showing substantial justification why extended
hours on a temporary basis are appropriate.
   B.   An itinerant or transient merchant proposing to operate on public
property shall submit evidence of insurance as set forth in section
5.04.040 of this title. The organizer of a single event consisting of multiple
vendors and operating on public property shall be responsible for providing
evidence of insurance covering all vendors as set forth in section
5.04.040 of this title.
   C.   The applicant for a license or renewal under this section shall submit
written permission from the property owner.
   D.   All aspects of the itinerant or transient merchant shall be temporary
in nature with no permanent facilities constructed on site. No overnight
parking or outdoor storage shall be allowed.
   E.   An itinerant or transient merchant selling, offering to sell or
displaying for sale any retail merchandise on private property shall obtain a
separate license for each individual private property location.
   F.   An itinerant or transient merchant proposing to operate on private
property shall only be permitted in the Airport, Commercial, Commercial
Services, Gateway, Industrial, Mixed Use or Town Center Zoning Districts as per
the Logan Land Development Code and according to the following:
      1.   An itinerant or transient merchant shall not be located on vacant or
undeveloped property. (Ord. 25-02, 2025: Ord. 17-10, 2017)
5.18.060: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Applications shall be subject to review by Code authorities, including
those for public works, planning, zoning, building, fire, police, health, and
others as required for the product, vendor or special event;
   B.   Approvals shall be based on a combination of Code compliance in all
applicable areas;
   C.   The applicant shall obtain and maintain proper business and sales tax
registration for all aspects of the operation prior to operating;
   D.   Approvals shall be based on any other factors or circumstances review
authorities consider necessary to protect the public and enhance the community,
such as:
      1.   Pedestrian traffic and site compatibility with proposed operation;
and
      2.   Ability of the applicant to manage the operation and maintain
compliance with all laws and local codes.
   E.   Based on recommendations from the different reviewing entities, the
License Administrator may issue the license with any operational limitations
specified. (Ord. 17-10, 2017)
lo692   5-19.txt ()
CHAPTER 5.19
NONDEPOSITORY FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
SECTION:
5.19.010: Definitions
5.19.020: Limitation
5.19.010: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
5.02.020 of this title, the following words and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the meanings prescribed in this chapter:
NONDEPOSITORY FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: A business that conducts transactions of
cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred deposit loan and
shall include any other similar types of businesses licensed by the state of
Utah pursuant to the check cashing and deferred deposit lending registration
act. (Ord. 09-39 § 1, 2009)
5.19.020: LIMITATION:
Nondepository financial institutions shall be limited to one nondepository
financial institution per ten thousand (10,000) in population to include all
residents in the city of Logan. The total population figures shall be based on
the U.S. census bureau's annual estimates. (Ord. 09-39 § 1, 2009)
CHAPTER 5.20
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
SECTION:
5.20.010: Definitions
5.20.020: License Required
5.20.030: Applications; License; License Reciprocity
5.20.040: Responsible Party Identification
5.20.050: Conditions And Requirements
5.20.060: Sales On Private Property
5.20.070: Review And Approval Process
5.20.010: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
5.02.020 of this title, the following words and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the meanings prescribed in this section:
ICE CREAM TRUCK: A fully encased food service establishment on a motor vehicle
or on a trailer that a motor vehicle pulls to transport; from which a vendor,
from within the frame of the vehicle, serves ice cream, shaved ice or like
desserts; that attracts patrons by traveling through a residential area and
signaling the truck's presence in the area, including by playing music; and
that may stop to serve ice cream, shaved ice or like desserts at the signal of
a patron.
MOBILE FOOD TRAILER: A fully encased food service establishment on a trailer,
that a motor vehicle pulls to transport, and from which a food vendor, standing
within the frame of the trailer, prepares, cooks, sells, or serves food
beverages for immediate human consumption.
MOBILE FOOD TRUCK: A fully encased food service establishment on a motor
vehicle and from which a food truck vendor, standing within the frame of the
vehicle, prepares, cooks, sells, or serves food or beverages for immediate
human consumption.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: The conduct of business from a licensed and operable motor
vehicle, including but not limited to mobile food trucks, mobile food trailers,
or ice cream trucks, from which food or beverages are sold or offered for sale
on a temporary basis.
STATIONARY FOOD VENDOR: A food vendor that operates from a structure which is
not permanently affixed to the property, such as a snow shack, and is located
in one location during the duration of the temporary use. A stationary food
vendor shall be subject to the licensing and operational requirements contained
in chapter 5.18 of this title and shall not include either a food truck, food
trailer, or ice cream truck. (Ord. 17-09, 2017)
5.20.020: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to conduct the business of a mobile food vendor
without first securing a license. The licensee shall conspicuously display such
license so that the same is plainly visible to the public. The division shall
collect a license fee from each mobile food vendor as set forth in the schedule
of fees adopted by the Municipal Council. (Ord. 17-09, 2017)
5.20.030: APPLICATIONS; LICENSE; LICENSE RECIPROCITY:
   A.   All applications for a license under this chapter shall be made to and
upon forms provided by the division, and shall require that the applicant have
a current State Sales Tax number.
   B.   A complete application for a license shall be submitted at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the date of operation. Incomplete or late
applications may be rejected. Applicant revisions or modifications to the
original application may extend the date of approval.
   C.   The application for a mobile food vendor shall include the address of
the location where the mobile food vendor is to be cleaned, restocked, and
stored overnight (commissary).
   D.   Upon approval of the mobile food vendor application, the division shall
issue a business license signed by the Director. The license shall show the
name of the licensee, the business or occupation to be carried on thereunder,
and the date of expiration of such license.
   E.   License Reciprocity. The City shall recognize as valid the business
license of a mobile food vendor obtained in another political subdivision
within the state, if the business license is current and in good standing in
accordance with 11-56-103(3)(A) of the Utah Code.
   F.   Each mobile food vendor shall keep within their possession, and provide
for inspection by the City as requested, a copy of a valid business license for
the mobile food vendor, whether issued by the City or another political
subdivision of the State; a valid health department permit whether issued by
the local health department of another health department; and evidence of
passing a fire safety inspection whether conducted by the City or another
political subdivision. (Ord. 17-09, 2017; amd. Ord. 22-17, 2022)
5.20.040: RESPONSIBLE PARTY IDENTIFICATION:
Each applicant, whether a partnership, sole proprietorship, or other entity
shall designate an individual that shall be responsible for the business, and
this individual shall:
   A.   Provide valid driver's license number, date of birth and vehicle
identification information. (Ord. 17-09, 2017)
5.20.050: CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
Each mobile food vendor shall abide by the following conditions and
requirements:
   A.   For those ice cream trucks operating within the public right-of-way,
the motor vehicle shall have a clearly audible backup warning device that
activates whenever the vehicle is shifted into reverse gear and shall have a
flashing yellow beacon on the roof of the vehicle that is visible from all
sides of the vehicle and is activated whenever merchandise is being sold,
offered for sale or displayed for sale. Food trucks and food trailers are not
permitted to prepare, cook, sell, or serve food within the public right-of-way,
unless authorized in conjunction with a special event licensed pursuant to
Chapter
5.04.020.
   B.   The motor vehicle shall be inspected and approved by the Bear River
Health Department on an annual basis. The presentation to the City of a current
Health Department permit from another local Health Department within the State
of Utah will suffice to meet this requirement.
   C.   The motor vehicle shall be inspected by the City for safety,
appearance, signage and accessibility. The presentation to the City of a
current fire safety approval conducted by another political subdivision within
the State of Utah will suffice to meet this requirement.
   D.   A mobile food vendor may operate between the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. On a temporary basis, extended hours may
be approved by the Director of Community Development, upon application by the
merchant showing substantial justification why extended hours on a temporary
basis are appropriate.
   E.   Ice cream trucks shall not sell or offer to sale food or beverages on
public streets where the speed limit exceeds twenty five (25) miles per hour.
   F.   Food or beverages shall only be sold or offered for sale when the ice
cream truck is completely stopped and lawfully parked, and only from the rear
or side of the vehicle nearest to the curb or edge of the roadway on the right
side of the vehicle. The operator of the ice cream truck shall not sell to any
person standing in the roadway.
   G.   For those mobile food vendors operating on public property, the
applicant shall submit evidence of insurance as set forth in section
5.04.040 of this title.
   H.   All mobile food vendors, including but not limited to mobile food
trucks, mobile food trailers, or ice cream trucks, shall be operable and shall
maintain current vehicle registration, licensing, and insurance while operating
in Logan City. (Ord. 17-09, 2017; amd. Ord. 22-17, 2022)
5.20.060: SALES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Each mobile food vendor conducting business on private property, in addition to
the other requirements of this chapter, shall comply with the following:
   A.   All aspects of the business shall be temporary in nature and must be
able to be removed from the premises each day. No outdoor storage of tables,
chairs, umbrella or signs associated with the mobile food vendor operation,
shall be allowed and no overnight parking of the mobile food vendor is
permitted. The mobile food vendor shall return on a nightly basis to a
specified location for cleaning, restocking, dumping of waste, storage, etc.
The specific location shall be identified in the business license application.
   B.   Be fully self-contained with respect to gas, water, and waste. All
waste and waste water shall be disposed of according to Logan City requirements
and shall not be dumped on the ground or in the stormwater system.
   C.   Food trucks and food trailers are prohibited in the following
Residential Zoning Districts (NR-2, NR-4, NR-6, MR-9, MR-12, MR-20, and MR-30)
unless authorized in conjunction with a special event licensed pursuant to
Chapter
5.04.020.
      1.   A mobile food vendor shall not be located on vacant or undeveloped
property. (Ord. 18-12, 2018; amd. Ord. 22-17, 2022)
5.20.070: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Applications shall be subject to review by Code authorities, including
those for public works, planning, zoning, building, fire, police, health, and
others as required.
   B.   Approvals shall be based on a combination of Code compliance in all
applicable areas.
   C.   The applicant must obtain and maintain proper business and Sales Tax
registration for all aspects of the operation prior to operating.
   D.   Approvals shall be based on any other factors or circumstances review
authorities consider necessary to protect the public and enhance the community,
such as:
      1.   Pedestrian traffic and site compatibility with proposed operation;
and
      2.   Ability of the applicant to manage the operation and maintain
compliance with all laws and local codes.
   E.   Based on recommendations from the different reviewing entities, the
License Administrator may issue the license with any operational limitations
specified. (Ord. 17-09, 2017)
CHAPTER 5.22
PAWNBROKERS
(Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
CHAPTER 5.24
PUBLIC DANCE HALLS AND CABARETS
SECTION:
Article I. General Provisions
5.24.010: Definitions
5.24.020: Exemptions
Article II. Licenses
5.24.030: Required
5.24.040: License Review Board; Issuance Conditions And Procedures
5.24.050: Requirements For Issuance
5.24.060: Cabaret Fees
5.24.070: Dance Hall Fees
Article III. Regulations
5.24.080: Misrepresenting Age
5.24.090: Hours
5.24.100: Pass Out And Return Cards
5.24.110: Lighting And Sound Barriers
5.24.120: Exhibitions (Rep. by Ord. 12-17, 2012)
5.24.130: Unlawful To Smoke Or Drink On Floor
5.24.140: Obscene Acts
5.24.150: Right Of Entry
5.24.160: Public Dances Generally
5.24.170: Cabarets Generally
Article IV. Unlawful Acts
5.24.180: Prostitutes Prohibited
5.24.190: Solicitation Of Drinks
5.24.200: Indecent Exposure
Article V. Violation; Penalty
5.24.210: Violation; Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
5.24.010: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth in this section:
CABARETS: Duly licensed business establishments which sell beer or other
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises which permit their patrons
to dance, and business establishments which sell beer or other alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises which entertain their patrons with
live performers who sing or dance shall be deemed a cabaret; and such places
shall be subject to the cabaret licensing provisions and general dance
regulations as provided in this chapter.
CONDUCT OR MAINTAIN A CABARET: Means and includes any time live performers
entertain patrons and the premises are used by patrons for any purpose for
which the performers or the license holder receives any compensation, or
consideration directly or indirectly, regardless of the time when the
compensation or consideration is given, the nature of that compensation or
consideration or the manner in which such compensation is given.
EXEMPT DANCES: Dances conducted and sponsored by public or private schools and
churches for the students and members thereof, even though an admission fee is
charged, and dances conducted in private homes on a private basis by invitation
to specifically named persons shall not be deemed to be public dances and shall
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
PUBLIC DANCE: Any dance to which the public generally may obtain admission,
with or without payment of a fee, except in a cabaret, shall be deemed a public
dance.
PUBLIC DANCE HALL: Means and includes any room, building, place or space in
which a public dance may be held or is held except in a cabaret. Public dance
halls shall be licensed and regulated as provided in this chapter. (Prior code
§ 12-5-5(a) - (d),(f))
5.24.020: EXEMPTIONS:
Dances conducted and sponsored by private nonprofit clubs, organized, operated,
regulated and bonded pursuant to Utah law, for members and their guests only
shall be exempt from the licensing provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 14-75,
2014)
ARTICLE II. LICENSES
5.24.030: REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to hold or conduct any public dance or cabaret in any dance
hall, restaurant or any other place within the limits of the city until such
dance hall or cabaret or other place in which the same may be held shall first
have been duly licensed by the city. Any person desiring to keep or conduct a
public dance hall or cabaret shall make application therefor in writing to the
city recorder or administrator of business licenses, and a license shall be
issued only after approval by the building inspector and police department who
shall visit the premises to assure compliance with this chapter. The findings
of the police department and building inspector regarding the condition of the
premises shall be accompanied by a recommendation as to whether a license
should be granted or refused, and if refused, the basis for the refusal
recommendation. The police department and building inspector shall, before a
license is issued, visit the owner, manager or some other representative of the
business, and deliver a copy of this chapter and answer any question regarding
the regulations governing the operation of a cabaret. They shall be permitted
to have access to all public dance halls and cabarets at all times, and shall
investigate complaints lodged against dance halls or cabarets, and shall make
periodic inspection of the premises and report their findings to the city
recorder or administrator of business licenses. (Prior code § 12-5-1(a))
5.24.040: LICENSE REVIEW BOARD; ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   A license review board consisting of the city recorder or administrator
of business licenses, the mayor and the assistant mayor, after notice and
hearing, may revoke or suspend any license issued. No license shall be issued,
and any license issued shall be revoked or suspended, if the applicant or
licensee, such person's agent or employee fails to comply with the ordinances
of the city, or the rules, regulations and orders of duly authorized health
officials relating to matters of health and sanitation, or if the licensed
premises are not conducted and kept in a quiet peaceable and orderly manner, so
as not to disturb a reasonable person of normal sensibility under circumstances
which are usual or customary and lawful for that person, including, but not
limited to, their neighboring business or other operations or activities, or if
any nuisance is suffered to be committed or to be maintained upon the premises.
If at any time a license issued under the provisions of this chapter is denied,
revoked or suspended, it shall thereafter be unlawful for any person to
operate, maintain, manage or conduct a dance hall or cabaret until a new
license shall be granted or until a suspended license is restored or the period
of suspension shall have elapsed. No license suspended shall be suspended for a
period of less than thirty (30) days. (Prior code § 12-5-1(b))
5.24.050: REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE:
No license shall be issued pursuant to this chapter until it shall be found
that the place for which it is issued complies with and conforms to all the
laws, and is properly ventilated, and has available and sufficient toilet
convenience for each sex, which shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
at all times. Every person to whom a dance hall or cabaret license is issued
shall post restroom notices in a conspicuous place in the dance hall or
cabaret. (Prior code § 12-5-2)
5.24.060: CABARET FEES:
Cabaret license fees shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year, in
addition to the business license fee. (Prior code § 12-5-3)
5.24.070: DANCE HALL FEES:
The license fee required for public dance halls shall be as follows: Where the
floor space is two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet or more, one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per year; where the floor space is over one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet and less than two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet, one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year; where the
floor space is one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet or less, fifty
dollars ($50.00) per year, in addition to the business license fee. Licenses
issued on a "per day" basis shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) for each dance.
(Prior code § 12-5-4)
ARTICLE III. REGULATIONS
5.24.080: MISREPRESENTING AGE:
It is unlawful for any person to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
obtaining admission to a public dance or cabaret or to falsely represent
himself or herself to be a parent or legal guardian of any person in order that
the same person may attend or remain at any public dance or cabaret. (Prior
code § 12-5-6(a))
5.24.090: HOURS:
It is unlawful for any person to conduct or maintain a public dance hall or
cabaret licensed by this chapter between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
of any day and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of the following day or upon Sunday
after one o'clock (1:00) A.M. (Prior code § 12-5-6(b))
5.24.100: PASS OUT AND RETURN CARDS:
No pass out and return cards shall be issued for use by any person who leaves
licensed dance premises, anterior rooms thereof, and such portions of the
grounds immediately adjacent to the premises. However, the cabaret manager or
his agent may use some sort of a stamp to stamp the hand of a person to
identify persons who have previously paid for admission. (Prior code § 12-5-6
(c))
5.24.110: LIGHTING AND SOUND BARRIERS:
Premises licensed pursuant to this chapter shall maintain throughout the
licensed premises and during business hours a minimum of two (2) candlepower
light measured at a level of five feet (5') above the floor. Whenever the
premises are located immediately adjacent to, above or below another enterprise
or activity separated by a single barrier such as a wall or a floor, the
premises shall be constructed or equipped with adequate sound barriers so as
not to disturb the occupants engaged in adjacent businesses or activities
utilizing the standards set forth in sections
5.24.030 and
5.24.040 of this chapter. (Prior code § 12-5-6(d))
5.24.120: EXHIBITIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 12-17, 2012)
5.24.130: UNLAWFUL TO SMOKE OR DRINK ON FLOOR:
It is unlawful to smoke or drink any liquid while dancing on any licensed dance
floor or cabaret or to permit the same. (Prior code § 12-5-6(f))
5.24.140: OBSCENE ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person to whom a license is granted under this chapter
to allow or permit upon the licensed premises any obscene act to be committed
or any disorder or conduct of a gross, violent or vulgar character, or to
permit prostitutes, pimps or procurers to enter and remain on the same
premises. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-5-6(g))
5.24.150: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
It shall be the duty of every person in charge of a dance hall or cabaret
licensed by this chapter to permit any officer to freely enter and inspect the
dance hall or cabaret at any time and to cooperate with the officers in every
way within their power to prevent violation of the ordinances of this city, and
to maintain proper order and respectable conduct at all times. (Prior code §
12-5-6(h))
5.24.160: PUBLIC DANCES GENERALLY:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every person operating or having charge of any
public dance hall to turn over to the officers any person intoxicated or who
has liquor in his or her possession. It is unlawful for any person who is
intoxicated or who has liquor in her or his possession, to enter a public dance
hall.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in a fight, quarrel, or
threaten to fight, or be guilty of any loud, boisterous or obscene conduct in
public dance hall or in the immediate premises thereof.
   C.   It is unlawful to permit any person who has not reached the age of
eighteen (18) years to attend or remain in any public dance hall unless such
person is accompanied by the parent or legal guardian of such person, or unless
the dance is specifically designed and restricted to persons between the ages
of sixteen (16) years through and including twenty one (21) years of age, no
smoking is permitted therein; and provided further, that the dance is planned
to close and closes no later than eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. (1989
Code: prior code § 12-5-7)
5.24.170: CABARETS GENERALLY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
enter or be in or about the premises of any cabaret where beer is sold or
consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted. It is unlawful for any
operator, agent or employee of a cabaret to permit any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to remain in or about the licensed premises.
   B.   The dance area in a licensed cabaret must be separated from the seating
area by a minimum aisle or areaway of three feet (3'), unless the separation is
accomplished by a physical solid barrier at least three feet (3') high.
   C.   Access to the restroom must be by an aisleway of at least three feet
(3') in width and constructed in a manner which will allow patrons to have
access to the restroom without crossing over the dance area.
   D.   If the dance area is adjacent to or in front of a bar where beer is
served, there must be a minimum aisleway or areaway of five feet (5') between
the bar and the dance area.
   E.   Impromptu audience performers or itinerate entertainers are prohibited.
   F.   It is unlawful to furnish any live entertainment for the patrons of any
establishment or premises open to the public possessing a class B or C beer
license or a consent to a state liquor license pursuant to the beer and
alcoholic beverage ordinances of this city unless the premises is also licensed
as a cabaret as provided in this chapter.
   G.   No cabaret license shall be issued unless the premises contains at
least three hundred (300) square feet of suitable dancing area.
   H.   All cabaret licenses, whether original applicants or renewal applicants
must comply with the applicable provisions of this chapter. (Prior code § 12-5-
8)
ARTICLE IV. UNLAWFUL ACTS
5.24.180: PROSTITUTES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for a proprietor, owner or employee of any dance hall or
cabaret to permit any known prostitute, male or female procurer or vagrant to
be present at any known public dance hall or cabaret.
   B.   It is unlawful for any known prostitute, male or female procurer or
vagrant to be present at any public dance hall or cabaret. (Prior code § 12-5-
9)
5.24.190: SOLICITATION OF DRINKS:
No person shall frequent or loiter in any cabaret for the purpose of soliciting
persons of the opposite sex to purchase drinks. No proprietor or operator of
any cabaret shall allow the presence in such establishments of any person who
violates the provisions of this section. (Prior code § 12-5-10)
5.24.200: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
No entertainer, employee, customer or any other person in a cabaret or dance
hall shall publicly expose his or her person including, but not limited to, the
exposure of the private parts or genitals of a male or female or exposure of
the breast below two inches (2") above the nipple of a female. No owner or
operator of a cabaret or dance hall shall allow the presence in such
establishment of any employee, entertainer or other person who is not
adequately clothed. (Prior code § 12-5-11)
ARTICLE V. VIOLATION; PENALTY
5.24.210: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Penalty provisions relating to violations of this code are found in title 1,
chapter 1.16 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-1-4)
CHAPTER 5.26
POOLROOMS
SECTION:
5.26.010: Disorderly Conduct
5.26.020: Violation; Penalty
5.26.010: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
No person operating or owning a pool or billiard hall or any person employed by
such person or acting in her or his stead or behalf shall allow dancing or any
disorderly conduct within his or her place of business, nor shall such person
keep or maintain any screens, partitions or obstructions in said places of
business that will interfere with or prevent a full and complete view of every
part of the place of business from the street. (Prior code § 12-6-1)
5.26.020: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-1-3)
CHAPTER 5.28
SECONDHAND AND JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
5.28.010: Definitions
5.28.020: License Required
5.28.030: Transaction Records Required; Contents
5.28.040: Copies To Police Department
5.28.050: Minors
5.28.010: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings as
set forth in this section:
ANTIQUE DEALER: Any person engaged in the business of selling old or archaic
items.
DEALER: Any "secondhand dealer", "secondhand precious metal dealer", "junk
dealer", "antique dealer" or "garage/yard sale dealer" as defined herein.
GARAGE/YARD SALE DEALER: Any individual who holds or participates in more than
four (4) (maximum 3 days in length) garage sales in one calendar year.
JUNK DEALER: Any person who engages in buying or selling old metals, glass,
rags, rubber, paper or other junk from a fixed place of business.
SECONDHAND DEALER: Any person who keeps a store, office or place of business
for the purchase, barter or exchange or sale of any secondhand merchandise of
value, or who engages in the business of dealing in secondhand goods. For the
purpose of this chapter, a "secondhand dealer" shall not be meant to include
any person who deals in the purchase, barter, exchange or sale of used motor
vehicles and trailers, nor a scrap metal processor, nor shall any organization
exempted by section
5.02.030 of this title be required to be licensed.
SECONDHAND PRECIOUS METAL DEALER: Any person who engages in buying and selling
old gold, silver, platinum or other precious metal or secondhand articles
containing any of such metals. (Prior code § 7-10-1)
5.28.020: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to operate as a dealer without first obtaining a
business license and paying the fees required by section
5.02.190 of this title. (Prior code § 7-10-2)
5.28.030: TRANSACTION RECORDS REQUIRED; CONTENTS:
   A.   Dealers will record all purchases or receipt of electronic items,
jewelry (other than costume jewelry), and coins brought to their place of
business and purchased by them for resale. The record shall be made on a two
(2) part form, previously approved by the police department and shall contain
the following information:
      1.   The date of the transaction;
      2.   The name and address of the seller (if the property is jointly
owned, each joint owner must be designated);
      3.   An accurate description of the goods, articles or things purchased
or otherwise obtained, including the serial number of the article, if any, the
name of the manufacturer, if available, and the dimensional description, if
applicable;
      4.   The amount of money paid therefor;
      5.   The date and time of day of the purchase or receipt of such goods,
articles or things.
   B.   The following information shall be provided concerning the seller(s):
      1.   a.   The last, first and middle name,
         b.   The signature of the seller(s),
         c.   The street address, city, state and zip code,
         d.   Phone number,
         e.   Sex (male or female),
         f.   Date of birth,
         g.   Height,
         h.   Weight,
         i.   Race,
         j.   Scars/marks,
         k.   Identification used and pertinent numbers;
      2.   The name of the person accepting the property for the dealer;
      3.   A signed statement certifying that the described property has not
been obtained by any illegal means and is the seller's property and is free and
clear of any encumbrances and that the seller has a legal right to sell the
property.
   C.   The disposition of each two (2) part ticket shall be as follows: Both
copies shall be delivered to a representative of the city police department.
   D.   All of the records and information required in this section shall be
open to the inspection of any police officer during regular business hours.
(Prior code § 7-10-3)
5.28.040: COPIES TO POLICE DEPARTMENT:
It is unlawful for any person licensed by this chapter to fail to submit a copy
of all entries or required records to the city police department upon demand.
(Prior code § 7-10-4)
5.28.050: MINORS:
It is unlawful to accept goods or pledges from persons under the age of
eighteen (18), unless such person is married. (Prior code § 7-10-5)
CHAPTER 5.29
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING
SECTION:
5.29.010: Title For Citation
5.29.020: Purpose Of Provisions And Findings
5.29.030: Application Of Provisions
5.29.040: Definitions
5.29.050: Obscenity And Lewdness; Statutory Provisions
5.29.060: Location And Zoning Restrictions
5.29.070: Business License Required
5.29.080: Exemptions From License Requirements
5.29.090: Legitimate Artistic Modeling
5.29.100: Business Categories; Number Of Licenses
5.29.110: Employee Licenses
5.29.120: License; Application; Disclosures Required
5.29.130: License; Fees
5.29.140: License; Bond
5.29.150: License; Premises Location And Name
5.29.160: License; Issuance Conditions
5.29.170: License; Term
5.29.180: License; Notice Of Change Of Information
5.29.190: License; Transfer Limitations
5.29.200: License; Display
5.29.210: License; Statement In Advertisements
5.29.220: Regulations And Unlawful Activities
5.29.230: Outcall Services; Operation Requirements
5.29.240: Adult Business; Design Of Premises
5.29.250: Seminude Entertainment Business; Design Of Premises
5.29.260: Seminude Entertainment Business; Location Restriction
5.29.270: Alcohol Prohibited
5.29.280: Seminude Dancing Agencies
5.29.290: Performers; Prohibited Activities
5.29.300: Patrons; Prohibited Activities
5.29.310: Nudity; Defenses To Prosecution
5.29.320: Existing Businesses; Compliance Time Limits
5.29.330: Violation; Injunction When
5.29.340: Violation; License Suspension Or Revocation
5.29.350: Effect Of License Revocation
5.29.360: Appeal Procedures
5.29.370: Violation; Penalty; Responsibility
5.29.010: TITLE FOR CITATION:
The provisions codified in this chapter shall be known and may be referred to
as the SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 98-68
§ 1, 1998)
5.29.020: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS AND FINDINGS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and object of this chapter that the city
establish reasonable and uniform regulations governing the time, place and
manner of operation of sexually oriented businesses and their employees in the
city. This chapter shall be construed to protect the governmental interests
recognized by this chapter in a manner consistent with constitutional
protections provided by the United States and Utah constitutions.
   B.   Findings: Based on evidence of the adverse secondary effects of adult
uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to the council, and on
findings incorporated in the cases of: City Of L.A. v. Alameda Books, 535 U.S.
425 (U.S. 2002); Pap's A.M. v. City Of Erie, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); Barnes v.
Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); City Of Renton v. Playtime Theatres,
Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres, 427 U.S. 50 (1976);
California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); Doctor John's, Inc. v. City Of Roy,
465 F.3d 1150 (10th Cir. Utah 2006); Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C. v. City Of
Littleton, 311 F.3d 1220 (10th Cir. Colo. 2002); American Target Adver., Inc.
v. Giani, 199 F.3d 1241 (10th Cir. Utah 2000); Z.J. Gifts D-2, L.L.C. v. City
Of Aurora, 136 F.3d 683 (10th Cir. Colo. 1998); Dodger's Bar & Grill v. Johnson
County Bd. Of County Comm'rs, 98 F.3d 1262 (10th Cir. Kan. 1996); Cortese v.
Black, 1996 U.S. App. LEXIS 15311 (10th Cir. June 25, 1996); O'Connor v.
Denver, 894 F.2d 1210 (10th Cir. Colo. 1990); M.S. News Co. v. Casado, 721 F.2d
1281 (10th Cir. Kan. 1983); Am. Library Ass'n v. Reno, 33 F.3d 78 (D.C. Cir.
1994); Midvale City Corp. v. Haltom, 2003 UT 26 (Utah 2003); Salt Lake City v.
Wood, 1999 UT App 323 (Utah Ct. App. 1999); and other cases; and reports of
secondary effects occurring in and around sexually oriented businesses,
including, but not limited to, Illinois - 2012; California - 2012; Missouri -
2010; Palm Beach County, Florida - 2008; Los Angeles, California - 2007;
Seattle, Washington - 2006; Kenton and Campbell Counties, Kentucky - 2005;
Forth Worth and Dallas, Texas - 2004; Toledo, Ohio - 2002; Denver, Colorado -
1998; Newport News, Virginia - 1996; New York, New York (Times Square) - 1994;
Garden Grove, California -1991; city of Kent, Washington - 1982; city of
Amarillo, Texas - 1977; city of Los Angeles, California - 1977; and also on
findings from the law review articles entitled "The Association Of Adult
Businesses With Secondary Effects: Legal Doctrine, Social Theory, And Empirical
Evidence", Alan C. Weinstein & Richard McCleary, 29 Cardozo Arts & Ent LJ 565,
(2011); "Do "Off-Site" Adult Business Have Secondary Effects? Legal Doctrine,
Social Theory And Empirical Evidence", Richard McCleary and Alan C. Weinstein,
Law And Policy, Vol. 31, No. 2, April 2009, the council finds:
      1.   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities and therefore a mechanism is needed by the city to
make the owners and operators of these establishments responsible for the
activities that occur on their premises.
      2.   Certain employees of unregulated sexually oriented businesses
defined in this chapter as adult theaters and cabarets engage in higher
incidence of certain types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other
establishments.
      3.   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur at
unregulated sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide
private or semiprivate booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live
sex shows.
      4.   Offering and providing such unregulated space encourages such
activities, which creates unhealthy conditions.
      5.   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses, or for the purpose of purchasing
or selling illicit drugs.
      6.   Numerous communicable diseases may be spread by activities occurring
in sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, syphilis,
gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital herpes,
hepatitis salmonella, campylobacter and shigella infections, chlamydial,
mycoplasmal and ureaplasmal infections, trichomoniasis and chancroid.
      7.   According to research from the Kaiser Family Foundation, an
estimated one million three hundred thousand (1,300,000) Americans are infected
with HIV. Men and women of all races are most likely to be infected by sexual
contact.
      8.   Relevant statistics revealed that a total of two thousand six
hundred fourteen (2,614) AIDS cases had been reported in Utah as of December
31, 2011.
      9.   The Centers For Disease Control And Prevention estimates that as
many as one in five (5) people with HIV do not know they are infected.
      10.   The number of cases of syphilis in the United States reported
annually is thirteen thousand nine hundred seventy (13,970) in 2011.
      11.   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported
annually is three hundred twenty one thousand eight hundred forty nine
(321,849) in 2011. The number of cases of chlamydia in the United States
reported annually is one million four hundred twelve thousand seven hundred
ninety one (1,412,791) in 2011.
      12.   The surgeon general of the United States in his report of October
22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
      13.   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
See, e.g., findings of U.S. department of health and human services.
      14.   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities.
      15.   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found in
the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view "adult" oriented
films.
      16.   The findings noted in subsections B1 through B15 of this section
raise substantial governmental concerns.
      17.   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics that
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
      18.   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators
of the sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will
place a heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the
sexually oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health,
safety and welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the
city. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is
the actual operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and
control of the premises and activities occurring therein.
      19.   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters.
      20.   Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments.
      21.   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day to day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and will prevent the
further secondary effects of dissemination of illegal obscenity, child
pornography, and to minors, materials harmful to them.
      22.   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent or who
are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
      23.   The fact that an applicant for an adult use has been convicted of a
sexually related crime leads to the rational assumption that the applicant may
engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter.
      24.   The barring of such individuals from employment in sexually
oriented businesses for a specified period of years serves to prevent
distribution of illegal material, to prevent conduct which leads to the
transmission of sexually transmitted diseases, and to preclude the
establishment of criminal enterprises within the city.
      25.   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens of
the city will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter. (Ord. 13-55, 2013)
5.29.030: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on certain
business activities which are characterized as sexually oriented businesses,
and certain employees of those businesses characterized as sexually oriented
business employees. Except where the context or specific provisions require,
this chapter does not supersede or nullify any other related ordinances,
including, but not limited to, those codified in the zoning ordinance. (Ord.
98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.040: DEFINITIONS:
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment:
   A.   Which excludes minors from more than fifteen percent (15%) of the
retail floor or shelf space of the premises; or
   B.   Which, as one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rental, for
any form of consideration, any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals, or other printed matter; or photographs, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, or video reproductions, slides, or other visual
representations, the central theme of which depicts or describes "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or instruments, devices, or
paraphernalia which are designated for use in connection with "specified sexual
activities", except for legitimate medically recognized contraceptives.
ADULT BUSINESS: An adult motion picture theater, adult bookstore, adult video
store, or any business providing sexually oriented product or services which
are illegal to minors and which constitute at least fifteen percent (15%) of
the floor space, unless exempt under the provisions of section
5.29.080 of this chapter.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment which:
   A.   Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions
(repeated showings of any single presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
   B.   As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration, films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
which are primarily characterized by the depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which:
   A.   Holds itself out as such a business; or
   B.   Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions
(repeated performance of the same presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
   C.   As its principal business, features persons who appear in live
performances in a state of seminudity or which are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
EMPLOY: Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary or any other form of
compensation, whether such person is hired on the payroll of the employer, as
an independent contractor, as an agent, or in any other form of employment
relationship.
ESCORT: Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes, visits,
consorts with, or accompanies or offers to date, consort, socialize, visit, or
accompany another or others to or about social affairs, entertainment, or
places of amusement, or within any place of public or private resort or any
business or commercial establishment or any private quarters. Escort shall not
be construed to include persons who provide business or personal services, such
as licensed private nurses, aides for the elderly or handicapped, social
secretaries or similar service personnel whose relationship with their patron
is characterized by a bona fide contractual relationship having a duration of
more than twelve (12) hours and who provide a service not principally
characterized as dating or socializing. "Escort" shall also not be construed to
include persons providing services such as singing telegrams, birthday
greetings, or similar activities characterized by appearances in a public
place, contracted for by a party other than the person for whom the service is
being performed.
ESCORT SERVICE: An individual or entity who, for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes or offers to furnish escorts, or provides or offers to introduce
patrons to escorts.
ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER: Any third person, not an escort, who, for pecuniary
compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service,
escort, or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services, escorts, or
patrons at any location within the city, whether or not such third person is
employed by such escort service, escort, patron, or by another business, or is
an independent contractor or self-employed.
NUDITY: A state of dress in which the areola of the female breast or male or
female genitals, pubic region, or anus are covered by less than the covering
required in the definition of "seminude".
OPERATOR: The manager or other natural person principally in charge of a
sexually oriented business.
OUTCALL SERVICES: Services of a type performed by a sexually oriented business
employee outside of the premises of the licensed sexually oriented business,
including, but not limited to, escorts, models, dancers and other similar
employees.
PATRON: Any person who contracts with or employs any escort services or escort
or the customer of any business licensed pursuant to this chapter.
PECUNIARY COMPENSATION: Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward, or any other form of consideration.
PERSON: Any person, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership, or
other legal entity.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which every portion of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or a
simulation thereof shall be covered by opaque covering; and the male or female
genitals, pubic region, and anus or simulation thereof shall be fully covered
by an opaque covering no narrower than four inches (4") wide in the front and
five inches (5") wide in the back, which shall not taper to less than one inch
(1") wide at the narrowest point.
SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY: Any person, agency, firm, corporation, partnership, or
any other entity or individual which furnishes, books, or otherwise engages or
offers to finish, book, or otherwise engage the service of a professional
dancer licensed pursuant to this chapter for performance or appearance at a
business licensed for adult theaters.
SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: A business, including adult theater, where
employees perform or appear in the presence of patrons of the business in a
state of seminudity. A business shall also be presumed to be a seminude
entertainment business if the business holds itself out as such a business.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Seminude entertainment businesses, sexually
oriented outcall services, adult businesses, and seminude dancing agencies, as
defined herein.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES: Those employees who work on the premises
of a sexually oriented business in activities related to the sexually oriented
portion of the business. This includes all managing employees, dancers,
escorts, models, and other similar employees, whether or not hired as
employees, agents, or as independent contractors. Employees shall not include
individuals whose work is unrelated to the sexually oriented portion of the
business, such as janitors, bookkeepers, and similar employees. Sexually
oriented business employees shall not include cooks, serving persons, and
similar employees, except where they may be managers or supervisors of the
business. All persons making outcall meetings under this chapter, including
escorts, models, guards, escort runners, drivers, chauffeurs, and other similar
employees, shall be considered sexually oriented business employees.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: The human male or female pubic area or anus or a
simulation thereof with less than a full opaque covering, or the human female
breast or simulation thereof below a horizontal line across the top of the
areola at its highest point, with less than full opaque covering.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Acts of:
      1.   Masturbation,
      2.   Human sexual intercourse,
      3.   Sexual copulation between a person and a beast,
      4.   Fellatio,
      5.   Cunnilingus,
      6.   Bestiality,
      7.   Pederasty,
      8.   Buggery, or
      9.   Any anal copulation between a human male and another human male,
human female, or beast;
   B.   Manipulating, caressing or fondling by any person of:
      1.   The genitals of a human or animal,
      2.   The pubic area of a human or animal,
      3.   The breast or breasts of a human female;
   C.   Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in undergarments, a
mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.050: OBSCENITY AND LEWDNESS; STATUTORY PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or display of any matter
which is contrary to applicable federal or state statutes prohibiting
obscenity.
   B.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to permit or allow conduct or the showing or display of
any matter, which is contrary to state or local law. Provided, however, that
for the purpose of sexually oriented businesses the definition of "private
parts" shall be construed to mean "nudity" as defined in this chapter. (Ord.
98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.060: LOCATION AND ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business at any
location within the city not zoned for such business. Sexually oriented
businesses licensed as adult businesses or seminude entertainment businesses
pursuant to this chapter shall only be allowed in areas zoned for their use
pursuant to the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.070: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business, as
specified herein, without first obtaining a general business license and a
sexually oriented business license. The sexually oriented business license
shall specify the type of business for which it is obtained. (Ord. 98-68 § 1,
1998)
5.29.080: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following individuals or
materials:
   A.   Any sex therapist or similar individual licensed by the state to
provide bona fide sexual therapy or counseling;
   B.   Licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse, psychiatrist,
psychologist, or other licensed healthcare professionals engaged in providing
bona fide healthcare services;
   C.   Educators licensed by the state or teaching in an institution of higher
education, who are engaged in teaching bona fide sex education classes; and
   D.   Educational materials sanctioned by the state or prescribed by licensed
healthcare professionals. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.090: LEGITIMATE ARTISTIC MODELING:
   A.   The city does not intend to unreasonably or improperly prohibit
legitimate modeling which may occur in a state of nudity for purposes protected
by the first amendment or similar state protections. The city does intend to
prohibit prostitution and related offenses occurring under the guise of nude
modeling. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
5.29.220K of this chapter, a licensed outcall employee may appear in a state of
nudity before a customer or patron, providing that a written contract for such
appearance was entered into between the customer or patron and the employee and
signed at least twenty four (24) hours before the nude appearance. All of the
other applicable provisions of this chapter shall still apply to such nude
appearance.
   B.   In the event of a contract for nude modeling or appearance signed more
than forty eight (48) hours in advance of the modeling or appearance, the
individual to appear nude shall not be required to obtain a license pursuant to
this chapter. During such unlicensed nude appearance, it is unlawful to:
      1.   Appear nude or seminude in the presence of persons under the age of
eighteen (18);
      2.   Allow, offer, or agree to any touching of the contracting party or
other person by the individual appearing nude;
      3.   Allow, offer, or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor, or committing activities harmful to a
minor;
      4.   Allow, offer, commit, or agree to any sex act as validly defined by
city ordinances or state statute;
      5.   Allow, offer, agree, or permit the contracting party or other person
to masturbate in the presence of the individual contracted to appear nude;
      6.   Allow, offer, or agree for the individual appearing nude to be
within five feet (5') of any other person while performing or while nude or
seminude. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.100: BUSINESS CATEGORIES; NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any business premises to operate or be licensed for
more than one category of sexually oriented business, except that a business
may have a license for both outcall services and a seminude dancing agency on
the same premises.
   B.   The categories of sexually oriented businesses are:
      1.   Outcall services;
      2.   Adult businesses;
      3.   Seminude entertainment businesses;
      4.   Seminude dancing agency. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.110: EMPLOYEE LICENSES:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to employ or for any
individual to be employed by a sexually oriented business in the capacity of a
sexually oriented business employee, unless that employee first obtains a
sexually oriented business employee license. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.120: LICENSE; APPLICATION; DISCLOSURES REQUIRED:
Before any applicant may be licensed to operate a sexually oriented business or
as a sexually oriented business employee pursuant to this chapter, the
applicant shall submit, on a form to be supplied by the city license authority,
the following:
   A.   The correct legal name of each applicant, corporation, partnership,
limited partnership, or entity doing business under an assumed name;
   B.   If the applicant is a corporation, partnership, or limited partnership,
or individual or entity doing business under an assumed name, the information
required below for individual applicants shall be submitted for each partner
and each principal of an applicant, and for each officer, director, and any
shareholder (corporate or personal) of more than ten percent (10%) of the stock
of any applicant. Any holding company, or any entity holding more than ten
percent (10%) of an applicant, shall be considered an applicant for purposes of
disclosure under this chapter;
      1.   The shareholder disclosure requirements above shall only be
applicable for outcall service licenses;
   C.   All corporations, partnerships, or noncorporate entities included on
the application shall also identify each individual authorized by the
corporation, partnership, or noncorporate entity to sign the checks for such
corporation, partnership, or noncorporate entity;
   D.   For all applicants or individuals, the application must also state:
      1.   Any other names or aliases used by the individual,
      2.   The age, date, and place of birth,
      3.   Height,
      4.   Weight,
      5.   Color of hair,
      6.   Color of eyes,
      7.   Present business address and telephone number,
      8.   Present residence and telephone number,
      9.   Utah driver license or identification number, and
      10.   Social security number;
   E.   Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least eighteen (18)
years of age;
   F.   Attached to the form, as provided above, two (2) color photographs of
the applicant clearly showing the individual's face and the individual's
fingerprints on a form provided by the police department. For persons not
residing in the city, the photographs and fingerprints may be on a form from
the law enforcement jurisdiction where the person resides. Fees for the
photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant as part of the
business license application fee;
   G.   For any individual applicant required to obtain a sexually oriented
business employee license as an escort or a seminude entertainer, a certificate
from the Bear River health department, stating that the individual has, within
thirty (30) days immediately preceding the date of the original or renewal
application, been examined and found to be free of any contagious or
communicable diseases;
   H.   A statement of the business, occupation, or employment history of the
applicant for three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application;
   I.   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the applicant
for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application, including whether such applicant previously operating or
seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city, state, or territory, has
ever had a license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or
suspended, or has had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or
suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction,
and state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy
of any order of denial, revocation, of suspension shall be attached to the
application;
   J.   All criminal convictions or pleas of nolo contendere, except those
which have been expunged, and the disposition of all such arrests for the
applicant, individual, or other entity subject to disclosure under this
chapter, for five (5) years prior to the date of the application. This
disclosure shall include identification of all ordinance violations, excepting
minor traffic offenses (any traffic offense designated, as a felony shall not
be construed as a minor traffic offense), stating the date, place, nature of
each conviction or plea of nolo contendere, and sentence of each conviction or
other disposition, identifying the convicting jurisdiction and sentencing
court, and providing the court identifying case numbers or docket numbers.
Application for a sexually oriented business or employee license shall
constitute a waiver of disclosure of any criminal conviction or plea of nolo
contendere for the purposes of any proceeding involving the business or
employee license;
   K.   In the event the applicant is not the owner of record of the real
property upon which the business or proposed business is or is to be located,
the application must be accompanied by a notarized statement from the legal or
equitable owner of the possessory interest in the property specifically
acknowledging the type of business for which the applicant seeks a license for
the property. In addition to furnishing such notarized statement, the applicant
shall furnish the name, address, and phone number of the owner of record of the
property, as well as the copy of the lease or rental agreement pertaining to
the premises in which the service is or will be located;
   L.   A description of the services to be provided by the business, with
sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to determine what business
will be transacted on the premises, together with a schedule of usual fees for
services to be charged by the licensee, and any rules, regulations, or
employment guidelines under or by which the business intends to operate. This
description shall also include:
      1.   The hours that the business or service will be open to the public,
and the methods of promoting the health and safety of the employees and patrons
and preventing them from engaging in illegal activity,
      2.   The methods of supervision preventing the employees from engaging in
acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities,
      3.   The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this chapter or other statutes or ordinances,
      4.   The methods of screening employees and customers in order to promote
the health and safety of employees and customers and prevent the transmission
of disease, and prevent the commission of acts of prostitution or other
criminal activity.
It is unlawful to knowingly submit false or materially misleading information
on or with a sexually oriented business license application or to fail to
disclose or omit information for the purpose of obtaining a sexually oriented
business or employee license. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.130: LICENSE; FEES:
Each applicant for a sexually oriented business or employee license shall be
required to pay regulatory license fees as set forth in the fee schedule based
on current approved Logan municipal council resolution. An application is not
complete until all appropriate fees have been paid. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.140: LICENSE; BOND:
Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall post, with the
city's business license administrator, a cash or corporate surety bond payable
to city in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). Any fines assessed
against the business, officers, or managers for violations of city ordinances
shall be taken from this bond if not paid in cash within ten (10) days after
notice of the fine, unless an appeal is filed as provided by this chapter. In
the event the funds are drawn against the cash or surety bond to pay such
fines, the bond shall be replenished to two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) within
fifteen (15) days of the date of notice of any draw against it. (Ord. 98-68 §
1, 1998)
5.29.150: LICENSE; PREMISES LOCATION AND NAME:
   A.   It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued pursuant to
this chapter at any location other than the licensed premises. Any location to
which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by such business shall
require a separate license.
   B.   It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business in the
city under any name other than the business name specified in the application.
(Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.160: LICENSE; ISSUANCE CONDITIONS:
The business license administrator shall approve the issuance of a license to
the applicant within thirty (30) days after receipt of a completed application,
unless the official finds one or more of the following:
   A.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
   B.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines,
or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed on the applicant;
   C.   The applicant has falsely answered a material question or request for
information as authorized by this chapter;
   D.   The applicant has violated a provision of this chapter or similar
provisions found in statutes or ordinances from any jurisdiction within two (2)
years immediately preceding the application; a criminal conviction for a
violation of a provision of this chapter or similar provisions from any
jurisdiction, whether or not it is being appealed, is conclusive evidence of a
violation, but a conviction is not necessary to prove a violation;
   E.   The premises to be used for the business has been disapproved by the
Bear River health department, the fire department, the police department, the
building officials, or the zoning officials as not being in compliance with
applicable laws and ordinances of the city. If any of the foregoing reviewing
agencies cannot complete their review within the thirty (30) day approval or
denial period, the agency or department may obtain from the city business
license administrator an extension of time of no more than fifteen (15) days
for their review. The total time for the city to approve or deny a license
shall not exceed forty five (45) days from the receipt of a completed
application and payment of all fees. Businesses located outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city, but requiring a license under this chapter,
may be denied a license pursuant to this chapter if the business does not have
a valid business license to conduct business at the business location from the
appropriate jurisdiction for that location.
      1.   Upon receipt of an application, all departments required to review
the application shall determine within seven (7) days whether or not the
application is incomplete in items needed for processing. Incomplete
applications shall immediately be returned to the applicant with a
specification of the items which are incomplete,
      2.   The time for processing applications specified in this section shall
begin to run from the receipt of a complete application,
      3.   In the event that a license for seminude entertainment, seminude
dancing agencies, adult businesses, or seminude entertainment businesses has
not been disapproved within thirty (30) days or the forty five (45) days
allowed after an extension, the city shall issue the license pending completion
of the city's review,
      4.   Any license issued pursuant to subsection E3 of this section may be
revoked by the city, pursuant to the revocation procedures provided for herein,
if the completed review determines that the license should have been denied;
   F.   The required license fees have not been paid;
   G.   All applicable sales and use taxes have not been paid;
   H.   An applicant for the proposed business is in violation of or not in
compliance with this chapter or similar provisions found in statutes or
ordinances from any jurisdiction;
   I.   An applicant has been convicted or pled nolo contendere to a crime
involving: prostitution; exploitation of prostitution; aggravated promotion of
prostitution; aggravated exploitation of prostitution; solicitation of sex
acts; sex acts for hire; compelling prostitution; aiding prostitution; sale,
distribution, or display of material harmful to minors; sexual performance by
minors; possession of child pornography; lewdness; indecent exposure; any crime
involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child; sexual assault or aggravated
sexual assault; rape; forcible sodomy; forcible sexual abuse; incest; harboring
a runaway child; criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses or offenses involving similar elements from any
jurisdiction, regardless of the exact title of the offense; for which:
      1.   Less than two (2) years have elapsed from the date of conviction, if
the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense, or less than five (5) years if the
convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanors within the five (5) years, or
      2.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed from the date of conviction,
if the offense is of a felony.
The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the
disqualification pursuant to this section. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.170: LICENSE; TERM:
Sexually oriented business and employee licenses issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be valid from the date of issuance through December 31 of each
year. The license fees required for the applicable classification shall not be
prorated for any portion of a year, but shall be paid in full for whatever
portion of the year the license is applied for. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.180: LICENSE; NOTICE OF CHANGE OF INFORMATION:
Any change in the information required to be submitted under this chapter for
either a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business
employee license shall be given, in writing, to the business license
administrator and the police department within fourteen (14) days after such
change. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.190: LICENSE; TRANSFER LIMITATIONS:
Sexually oriented business licenses granted under this chapter shall not be
transferable. It is unlawful for a license held by an individual to be
transferred. It is unlawful for a license held by a corporation, partnership,
or other noncorporate entity to transfer any part in excess of ten percent
(10%) thereof, without filing a new application and obtaining prior city
approval. If any transfer of the controlling interest in a business licensee
occurs, the license is immediately null and void, and the business shall not
operate until a separate new license has been properly issued by the city as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.200: LICENSE; DISPLAY:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business location within the
boundaries of the city to fail to display the license granted pursuant to this
chapter in a prominent location within the business premises. It is unlawful
for any individual licensed pursuant to this chapter to fail to carry, at all
times while engaged in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries of
the city, their employee license on their person. If the individual is nude,
such license shall be visibly displayed within the same room the employee is
performing. When requested by police, city licensing or other enforcement
personnel or health official, it is unlawful to fail to show the appropriate
licenses while engaged in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries
of the city. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.210: LICENSE; STATEMENT IN ADVERTISEMENTS:
It is unlawful for any advertisement by the sexually oriented business or
employee to fail to state that the business or employee is licensed by the
city, and shall include the city license number. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.220: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented business
employee to:
   A.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years on the licensed
premises, except that in adult businesses which exclude minors from less than
all of the business premises, minors shall not be permitted in excluded areas;
   B.   Allow, offer, or agree to conduct any outcall business with persons
under the age of eighteen (18) years;
   C.   To allow, offer, or agree to allow any alcohol to be stored, used, or
consumed on or in the licensed premises;
   D.   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any customer
is in the premises;
   E.   Allow, offer, or agree to gambling on the licensed premises;
   F.   Allow, offer, or agree to any sexually oriented business employee
touching or being touched by any patron or customer; except that outcall
employees and customers may touch, except that any touching of specified
anatomical areas, whether clothed or unclothed, is prohibited;
   G.   Allow, offer, or agree to illegal possession, use, sale, or
distribution of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
   H.   Allow sexually oriented business employees to possess, use, sell, or
distribute controlled substances while engaged in the activities of the
business;
   I.   Allow, offer, or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor, or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of an outcall employee
or business, the outcall employee committing, offering, or agreeing to commit
prostitution, attempting to commit prostitution, soliciting prostitution,
soliciting a minor, or committing activities harmful to a minor;
   J.   Allow, offer, commit, or agree to any specified sexual activity as
validly defined by city ordinances or state statute in the presence of any
customer or patron;
   K.   Allow, offer, or agree to any outcall employee appearing before any
customer or patron in a state of nudity;
   L.   Allow, offer, or agree to allow a patron or customer to masturbate in
the presence of the sexually oriented business employee or on the premises of a
sexually oriented business;
   M.   Allow, offer, or agree to commit an act of lewdness. (Ord. 98-68 § 1,
1998)
5.29.230: OUTCALL SERVICES; OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any business or employee providing outcall services
contracted for in the city to fail to comply with the following requirements:
   A.   All businesses licensed to provide outcall services pursuant to this
chapter shall provide to each patron a written contract in receipt of pecuniary
compensation for services. The contract shall clearly state the type of
services to be performed, the length of time such services shall be performed,
the total amount such services shall cost the patron, and any special terms or
conditions relating to the services to be performed. The contract need not
include the name of the patron. The business licensee shall keep and maintain a
copy of each written contract entered into pursuant to this section for a
period not less than one year from the date of provision of services
thereunder. The contracts shall be numbered and entered into a register listing
the contract number, date, names of all employees involved in the contract, and
pecuniary compensation paid.
   B.   All outcall businesses licensed pursuant to this chapter shall maintain
an open office or telephone at which the licensee or licensee's designated
agent may be personally contacted during all hours outcall employees are
working. The address and phone number of the license location shall appear and
be included in all patron contracts and published advertisements. For outcall
businesses which premises we licensed within the corporate limits of the city,
private rooms or booths where the patrons may meet with the outcall employee
shall not be provided at the open office or any other location by the service,
nor shall patrons meet outcall employees at the business premises.
   C.   Outcall services shall not advertise in such a manner that would lead a
reasonably prudent person to conclude that specified sexual activities would be
performed by the outcall employee.
   D.   All employees of outcall services who provide outcall services within
the city shall be licensed in accordance with this chapter, regardless of the
primary location of the business. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.240: ADULT BUSINESS; DESIGN OF PREMISES:
   A.   In addition to the general requirements of disclosure for a sexually
oriented business, any applicant for a license as an adult business shall also
submit a diagram, drawn to scale, of the premises of the license. The design
and construction, prior to granting a license or opening for business, shall
conform to the following:
      1.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms.
      2.   Restrooms may not contain any video reproduction equipment or any of
the business merchandise. Signs shall be posted requiring only one person being
allowed in the restroom per stall, and only one person in any stall at a time,
and requiring that patrons shall not be allowed access to manager's station
areas.
      3.   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all
windows, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded.
      4.   The diagram required shall not necessarily be a professional
engineer's or architect's blueprint; however, the diagram must show marked
internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures, and ratings for
illumination capacity.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the licensee and the licensee's employees to
ensure that the views from the manager's station in subsection A1 of this
section remain unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks, or
any other materials at all times that any patron is present in the premises,
and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted.
   C.   The premises shall at all times be equipped and operated with overhead
lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which
patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot-
candle, measured at floor level. It shall be the duty of the licensee and the
licensee's employees present on the premises to ensure that the illumination
described above is maintained at all times that any patron is present in the
premises. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.250: SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS; DESIGN OF PREMISES:
   A.   It is unlawful for business premises licensed for seminude
entertainment to:
      1.   Permit a bed, sofa, mattress, or similar item in any room on the
premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the
public or in any office to which patrons are not admitted, and except that in
an adult theater such items may be on the stage as part of a performance;
      2.   Allow any door on any room used for the business, except for the
door to an office to which patrons shall not be admitted, outside doors, and
restroom doors to be lockable from the inside;
      3.   Provide any room in which the employee or employees and the patron
or patrons are alone together without a separation by a solid physical barrier
at least three feet (3') high and six inches (6") wide. The patron or patrons
shall remain on one side of the barrier and the employee or employees shall
remain on the other side of the barrier.
   B.   Adult theaters shall also require that the performance area shall be
separated from the patrons by a minimum of six feet (6'), which separation
shall be delineated by a physical barrier at least three feet (3') high. (Ord.
98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.260: SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS; LOCATION RESTRICTION:
It is unlawful for any business licensed for seminude entertainment to be
located within six hundred feet (600') of a business licensed for the sale or
consumption of alcohol. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.270: ALCOHOL PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any business licensed pursuant to this chapter to
allow the sale, storage, supply, or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage on the premises of any sexually oriented business. (Ord. 98-68 § 1,
1998)
5.29.280: SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCIES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book, or
otherwise engage the services of a professional dancer, model, or performer to
appear in a state of seminudity for pecuniary compensation in or for any
seminude entertainment business or adult theater licensed pursuant to this
chapter, unless such agency is licensed pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book, or
otherwise engage or permit any person to perform as a professional dancer,
model, or performer in a state of seminudity or nudity, either gratuitously or
for compensation, in or for any business licensed pursuant to this chapter,
unless such person is licensed pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.290: PERFORMERS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any professional dancer, model, or performer, while
performing in any business licensed pursuant to this chapter, to:
   A.   Touch in any manner any other person;
   B.   Throw any object or clothing off the stage area;
   C.   Accept any money, drink, or any other object directly from any person;
or
   D.   Allow another person to touch such performer or to place any money or
object on the performer or within the costume or person of the performer; or
   E.   Place anything within the costume or adjust or move the costume while
performing so as to render the performer in a state of nudity. (Ord. 98-68 § 1,
1998)
5.29.300: PATRONS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any person or any patron of any business to touch in any
manner any performer; to place any money or object on or within the costume or
person of any performer; or to give or offer to give to any such performer any
drinks, money, or object while such performer is performing; except that money
may be placed on the stage, which shall not be picked up by the performer
except by hand. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.310: NUDITY; DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION:
It is a defense to prosecution or violation under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   A.   By a proprietary school licensed by the state, or a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   B.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation. (Ord. 98-68 §
1, 1998)
5.29.320: EXISTING BUSINESSES; COMPLIANCE TIME LIMITS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described herein, whether the herein described activities were
established before or after the effective date of the provisions codified in
this chapter and regardless of whether such persons and businesses are
currently licensed to do business in the city.
      1.   All such persons and businesses requiring outcall service licenses
shall have forty five (45) days from the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter, or until their current license expires, whichever is
first in time, to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   All seminude dancing agency licenses shall have forty five (45) days
from the effective date hereof, or until their license must be renewed,
whichever is first, to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   All adult businesses and seminude entertainment businesses shall
have forty five (45) days from the effective date hereof, or until their
current license must be renewed, whichever is first, to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   For the year 1998, all businesses required by this chapter to be
licensed as sexually oriented businesses shall receive credit for any 1998
license fee(s) paid and shall be required to remit the difference, if any, for
fees assigned to the sexually oriented business classifications established, as
applicable. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.330: VIOLATION; INJUNCTION WHEN:
An entity or individual who operates or causes a sexually oriented business to
be operated without a valid license, or who employs or is employed as an
employee of a sexually oriented business, or who operates such a business or
functions as such an employee in violation of the provisions of this chapter is
subject to a suit for injunction in addition to the civil and criminal
violations provided herein, and any other remedy available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.340: VIOLATION; LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   The city may issue a notice suspending or revoking a sexually oriented
business or employee license granted under this chapter if a licensee or an
employee of the licensee has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter;
      2.   Refused to allow any inspection of the premises of the sexually
oriented business specifically authorized by this chapter or by any other
statute or ordinance;
      3.   Failed to replenish the cost bond as provided in this chapter (such
a suspension shall extend until the bond has been replenished);
      4.   Given materially false or misleading information in obtaining the
license;
      5.   Knowingly operated the sexually oriented business or worked under
the employee license during the period when the business licensee or employee
licensee's license was suspended;
      6.   A licensee has committed an offense which would be grounds for
denial of a license for which the time period required has not elapsed;
      7.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed in or on, or solicited for on the licensed
premises, or an outcall employee solicited or committed on or off the premises,
an offense which would be grounds for denial of a license for which a
conviction has been obtained, and the person or persons were employees, whether
or not licensed, of the sexually oriented business at the time the offenses
were committed;
      8.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for fees related to
the sexually oriented business.
   B.   Suspension or revocation shall take effect within fifteen (15) days of
the issuance of notice, unless an appeal is filed as provided by this chapter.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.350: EFFECT OF LICENSE REVOCATION:
When a license issued pursuant to this chapter is revoked, the revocation shall
continue for one year from its effective date, and the licensee shall not be
issued a sexually oriented business or employee license for no less than one
year from the date of such revocation. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.360: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
The denial, conditional approval, probation, suspension, or revocation of any
license issued pursuant to this chapter may be appealed as set forth in section
5.02.160 of this title. (Ord. 02-62 § 1, 2002: Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
5.29.370: VIOLATION; PENALTY; RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   In addition to revocation or suspension of a license, as provided in
this chapter, each violation of this chapter shall, upon citation by the city
business license administrator, require the licensee to pay a civil penalty in
the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Such fines shall be deducted from
the cost bond posted pursuant to this chapter, unless paid within ten (10) days
of notice of the fine or the final determination after any appeal. In addition
to the civil fines provided in this chapter, the violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be a class B misdemeanor. Each day of a violation shall be
considered a separate offense.
   B.   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the sexually
oriented business licensee and/or operator, if such act or omission occurs
either with the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the licensee and/or
operator, or as a result of the licensee's and/or operator's negligent failure
to supervise the conduct of the employee, and the sexually oriented business
licensee shall be punishable for such act or omission in the same manner as if
the licensee committed the act or caused the omission.
   C.   A sexually oriented business licensee and/or operator shall be
responsible for the conduct of all employees while on the licensed premises,
and any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee
and/or operator for the purposes of determining whether the licensee's license
shall be revoked, suspended, or renewed. (Ord. 98-68 § 1, 1998)
CHAPTER 5.30
SOLICITORS
(Rep. by Ord. 06-71 § 1, 2006)
CHAPTER 5.31
RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION
SECTION:
5.31.010: Purpose
5.31.020: No Other City License Or Approval Required
5.31.030: Definitions
5.31.040: Exemptions From Chapter
5.31.050: Solicitation Prohibited
5.31.060: Registration Of Solicitors
5.31.070: Application Form
5.31.080: Written Disclosures
5.31.090: When Registration Begins
5.31.100: Issuance Of Certificates
5.31.110: Form Of Certificate And Identification Badge
5.31.120: Maintenance Of Registry
5.31.130: Nontransferability Of Certificates
5.31.140: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of A Certificate Of Registration
5.31.150: Appeal
5.31.160: Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited
5.31.170: "No Solicitation" Notice
5.31.180: Duties Of Solicitors
5.31.190: Time Of Day Restrictions
5.31.200: Buyer's Right To Cancel
5.31.210: Penalties
5.31.010: PURPOSE:
Residents of the city have an inalienable interest in their personal safety,
well being, and privacy in their residences, as well as their ability to
provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief, political
or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in commerce. The city
has a substantial interest in protecting the well being, tranquility, personal
safety, and privacy of its citizens, which includes the ability to protect
citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property. The city also has
a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or otherwise unfair
consumer sales practices as well as criminal activity.
There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the city and its
citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the rights of
those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of city officials
derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and property from
criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens regarding door to
door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement officers and those
affected by door to door canvassing and solicitation, as well as judicial
decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional protections afforded and
denied persons seeking to engage in door to door solicitation, the city adopts
this chapter to promote the city's substantial interests in:
   A.   Respecting citizens' decisions regarding privacy in their residences;
   B.   Protecting persons from criminal conduct;
   C.   Providing equal opportunity to advocate for and against religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities; and
   D.   Permitting truthful and nonmisleading door to door solicitation
regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
The city finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in this
chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the city interests
referred to herein while at the same time balancing the rights of those
regulated. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.020: NO OTHER CITY LICENSE OR APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not
apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or registration from the city
to engage in door to door solicitation.
   B.   Any business licensed by the city under another city ordinance that
uses employees, independent contractors, or agents for door to door
solicitation in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to the
business, shall be required to have such solicitors obtain a certificate,
unless otherwise exempt from registration.
   C.   Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered
solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or
registration from the city, provided they do not establish a temporary or fixed
place of business in the city.
   D.   Nothing herein is intended to interfere with or supplant any other
requirement of federal, state, or other local government law regarding any
license, permit, or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise
required to have or maintain. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.030: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ADVOCATING: Speech or conduct intended to inform, promote, or support religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities.
APPEALS OFFICER: The city council or designee of the city responsible for
receiving the information from the city and appellant regarding the denial or
suspension of a certificate and issuing a decision as required by this chapter.
APPELLANT: The person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of a
certificate, either personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on
behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor.
APPLICANT: An individual who is at least sixteen (16) years of age and not a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity who
applies for a certificate permitting door to door solicitation.
APPLICATION FORM: A standardized form provided by the city to an applicant to
be completed and submitted as part of registration.
BCI: An original or copy, dated no older than one hundred eighty (180) days
prior to the date of the application, of either: a) a Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification verified criminal history report
personal to the applicant; or b) verification by the Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification that no criminal history rising to the
level of a disqualifying status exists for the applicant.
BUSINESS: A commercial enterprise licensed by the city as a person or entity
under this title, having a fixed or temporary physical location within the
city.
CERTIFICATE: A temporary, annual, or renewal certificate permitting door to
door solicitation in the city applied for or issued pursuant to the terms of
this chapter.
CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES: Advocating by persons or entities that either are, or
support, a charitable organization.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Includes any person, joint venture, partnership,
limited liability company, corporation, association, group, or other entity:
   A.   That is:
      1.   A benevolent, educational, voluntary health, philanthropic, humane,
patriotic, religious or eleemosynary, social welfare or advocacy, public
health, environmental or conservation, or civic organization;
      2.   For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement, or firefighter
fraternal association; or
      3.   Established for any charitable purpose; and
   B.   That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the internal revenue
code of 1986 as amended, and qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible
contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
Charitable organization includes a chapter, branch, area, or office, or similar
affiliate or any person soliciting contributions within the state for a
charitable organization that has its principal place of business outside the
city or state of Utah 1 .
COMPETENT INDIVIDUAL: A person claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage
in rational thought, conversation, and conduct.
COMPLETED APPLICATION: A fully completed application form, a BCI, two (2)
copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant to establish
proof of identity, and the tendering of fees.
CRIMINALLY CONVICTED: The final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of no
contest, guilty, entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not
been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal
conviction is that offense of which the applicant or registered solicitor was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
DISQUALIFYING STATUS: Anything specifically defined in this chapter as
requiring the denial or suspension of a certificate, and any of the following:
   A.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of:
1) felony homicide, 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a
minor, 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or 4) sexual
assault of any kind;
   B.   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or registered
solicitor for: 1) felony homicide, 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or
exploiting a minor, 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or 4)
sexual assault of any kind;
   C.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a felony within the last ten (10) years;
   D.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
federal or state prison within the past five (5) years;
   E.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a misdemeanor within the past five (5) years involving a crime of: 1) moral
turpitude, or 2) violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
   F.   A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant or
registered solicitor within the last five (5) years indicating that: 1) the
applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in fraud, or intentional
misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor
was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)(2), (a)
(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19);
   G.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including
being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device;
   H.   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest warrant
from any jurisdiction; or
   I.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION: The practice of engaging in or attempting to engage
in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that person is a
competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate a home
solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or services.
ENTITY: Includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
other lawful entity, organization, society or association.
FEES: The cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the
issuance of a certificate and/or identification badge, which shall not exceed
the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the certificate
and/or identification badge.
FINAL CIVIL JUDGMENT: A civil judgment that would be recognized under state law
as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply.
GOODS: One or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise, perishables
of any kind, subscriptions, or manufactured products offered, provided, or
sold.
HOME SOLICITATION SALE: To make or attempt to make a sale of goods or services
by a solicitor at a residence by means of door to door solicitation, regardless
of:
   A.   The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
   B.   The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
   C.   The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a solicitor,
peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or similar designation.
LICENSING OFFICER: The city employee(s) or agent(s) responsible for receiving
from an applicant or registered solicitor the completed application and either
granting, suspending, or denying the applicant's certificate.
NO SOLICITATION SIGN: A reasonably visible and legible sign that states "No
Soliciting", "No Solicitors", "No Salespersons", "No Trespassing", or words of
similar import.
POLITICAL POSITION: Any actually held belief, or information for, against, or
in conjunction with any political, social, environmental, or humanitarian
belief or practice.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has been issued a current certificate by
the city.
REGISTRATION: The process used by the city licensing officer to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a certificate will be
denied, granted, or suspended.
RELIGIOUS BELIEF: Any sincerely held belief, or information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any theistic, agnostic, or atheistic assumption, presumption
or position, or religious doctrine, dogma, or practice regardless of whether or
not the belief or information is endorsed by any other person or public or
private entity.
RESIDENCE: Any living unit contained within any building or structure that is
occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the
city, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street or public rights of
way.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON OR ENTITY: That person or entity responsible to provide the
following to an applicant, registered solicitor, and the competent individual
in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or attempted to be
made by means of a home solicitation sale:
   A.   Maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax
number, computing the sales taxes owing from any sale of goods or services,
paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
   B.   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to
cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
   C.   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
SALE OF GOODS OR SERVICES: The conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the
competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good(s) or service
(s) that entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three (3) days under
any applicable federal, state, or local law.
SERVICES: Those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided, or
sold to a competent individual of a residence.
SOLICITING OR SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Any of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought.
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
insurance, subscriptions to publications, or publications.
   C.   Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value
for the benefit of any person or entity.
   D.   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services.
   E.   Seeking to engage an individual in conversation at a residence for the
purpose of promoting or facilitating the receipt of information regarding
religious belief, political position, charitable conduct, or a home
solicitation sale.
   F.   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
soliciting, such as hawking or peddling.
SOLICITOR OR SOLICITORS: A person(s) engaged in door to door solicitation.
SUBMITTED IN WRITING: The information for an appeal of a denial or suspension
of a certificate, submitted in any type of written statement to the city
offices by certified, registered, priority, overnight or delivery confirmation
mail, facsimile, or hand delivery.
SUBSTANTIATED REPORT: An oral, written, or electronic report:
   A.   That is submitted to and documented by the city;
   B.   By any of the following:
      1.   A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or
other city employees with publicly available identification of their name,
address, and any other reliable means of contact;
      2.   City law enforcement or licensing officer; or
      3.   Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level
of government;
   C.   That provides any of the following information regarding a registered
solicitor:
      1.   Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying
status of a registered solicitor;
      2.   Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a
disqualifying status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying
status;
      3.   Documented, eyewitness accounts that the registered solicitor has
engaged in repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the
registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
      4.   Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor
creates exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety, or welfare of
any individuals or entities within the city.
WAIVER: The written form provided to applicant by the city wherein applicant
agrees that the city may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on
the applicant for licensing purposes under this chapter, and which contains
applicant's notarized signature. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
 
Notes
1 1. Charitable solicitation act, UCA § 13-22-2(1)(a), (b).
5.31.040: EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER:
The following are exempt from registration under this chapter:
   A.   Persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent individual
prior to the time of the person's arrival at the residence;
   B.   Persons whose license, permit, certificate or registration with the
state of Utah permits them to engage in door to door solicitation to offer
goods or services to an occupant of the residence;
   C.   Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously made
order, or persons providing services at a residence pursuant to a previously
made request by a competent individual;
   D.   Persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any religious belief, or political position regardless of
whether goods, services, or any other consideration is offered or given, with
or without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge, or purchase;
and
   E.   Persons representing a charitable organization. The charitable
exemption shall apply to students soliciting contributions to finance
extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs,
provided that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school
administration, and that such student solicitors carry current picture student
identification from the educational institution for which they are soliciting.
Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties and
prohibitions outlined in sections
5.31.170,
5.31.180 and
5.31.190 of this chapter while advocating or soliciting. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.050: SOLICITATION PROHIBITED:
Unless otherwise authorized, permitted, or exempted pursuant to the terms and
provisions of this chapter, the practice of being in and upon a private
residence within the city by solicitors, for the purpose of home solicitation
sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is punishable as set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.060: REGISTRATION OF SOLICITORS:
Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, all persons desiring to engage in
door to door solicitation within the city, prior to doing so, shall submit a
completed application to the licensing officer and obtain a certificate. (Ord.
06-71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.070: APPLICATION FORM:
The licensing officer shall provide a standard application form for use for the
registration of solicitors. Upon request to the licensing officer, or as
otherwise provided, any person or entity may obtain in person, by mail, or
facsimile, a copy of this application form. Each application form shall require
disclosure and reporting by the applicant of the following information,
documentation, and fee:
   A.   Review Of Written Disclosures: An affirmation that the applicant has
received and reviewed the disclosure information required by this chapter.
   B.   Contact Information:
      1.   Applicant's true, correct and legal name, including any former names
or aliases used during the last ten (10) years;
      2.   Applicant's telephone number, home address and mailing address, if
different;
      3.   If different from the applicant, the name, address, and telephone
number of the responsible person or entity; and
      4.   The address by which all notices to the applicant required under
this chapter are to be sent.
   C.   Proof Of Identity: An in person verification by the licensing officer
of the applicant's true identity by use of any of the following which bear a
photograph of said applicant:
      1.   A valid driver's license issued by any state;
      2.   A valid passport issued by the United States;
      3.   A valid identification card issued by any state;
      4.   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
Upon verification of identity, the original identification submitted to
establish proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant.
   D.   Proof Of Registration With Department Of Commerce: The applicant shall
provide proof that either the applicant, or the responsible person or entity,
has registered with the Utah state department of commerce.
   E.   Special Events Sales Tax Number: The applicant shall provide a special
events sales tax number for either the applicant, or for the responsible person
or entity for which the applicant will be soliciting.
   F.   Marketing Information:
      1.   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered or trademarked names;
      2.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations, or other qualifications required by federal or state law to
promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
   G.   BCI Background Check: The applicant shall provide:
      1.   An original or a copy of a "BCI" background check as defined in
section
5.31.030 of this chapter; and
      2.   A signed copy of a waiver whereby applicant agrees to allow the city
to obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on applicant for purposes
of enforcement of this chapter 1 .
   H.   Responses To Questions Regarding "Disqualifying Status": The applicant
shall be required to affirm or deny each of the following statements on the
application form:
      1.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of: a) felony homicide,
b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor, c) the sale or
distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual assault of any kind?
      2.   Are any criminal charges currently pending against the applicant
for: a) felony homicide, b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting
a minor, c) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual
assault of any kind?
      3.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a felony within the
last ten (10) years?
      4.   Has the applicant been incarcerated in a federal or state prison
within the past five (5) years?
      5.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor within
the past five (5) years involving a crime of: a) moral turpitude, or b) violent
or aggravated conduct involving persons or property?
      6.   Has a final civil judgment been entered against the applicant within
the last five (5) years indicating that: a) the applicant had either engaged in
fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or b) that a debt of the applicant was
nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)(2), (a)(4),
(a)(6), or (a)(19)?
      7.   Is the applicant currently on parole or probation to any court,
penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest
or subject to a tracking device?
      8.   Does the applicant have an outstanding arrest warrant from any
jurisdiction? or
      9.   Is the applicant currently subject to a protective order based on
physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction?
   I.   Fee: The applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the
city, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the application
and issuing the certificate and/or identification badge.
   J.   Execution Of Application: The applicant shall execute the application
form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on
the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the information provided is
complete, truthful and accurate. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 53-10-108(1)(b).
5.31.080: WRITTEN DISCLOSURES:
The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying the
applicant of the following:
   A.   The applicant's submission of the application authorizes the city to
verify information submitted with the completed application including:
      1.   The applicant's address;
      2.   The applicant's and/or responsible person's or entity's state tax
identification and special use tax numbers, if any;
      3.   The validity of the applicant's proof of identity.
   B.   The city may consult any publicly available sources for information on
the applicant, including, but not limited to, databases for any outstanding
warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments.
   C.   Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is
allowed.
   D.   Identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by applicant
with a completed application.
   E.   The applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed
application.
   F.   To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant's
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection.
   G.   The city will maintain copies of the applicant's application form,
proof of identity, and identification badge. These copies will become public
records available for inspection on demand at the city offices whether or not a
certificate is denied, granted, or renewed.
   H.   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial, or suspension of a
certificate under the provisions of this chapter.
   I.   That a request for a temporary certificate will be granted or denied
the same business day that a completed application is submitted. (Ord. 06-71 §
2, 2006)
5.31.090: WHEN REGISTRATION BEGINS:
The licensing officer shall not begin the registration process unless the
applicant has submitted a completed application. The original identification
submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned after the licensing
officer verifies the applicant's identity. A copy of the identification may be
retained by the licensing officer. If an original BCI background check is
submitted by the applicant, the licensing officer shall make a copy of the BCI
and return the original to the applicant. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.100: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES:
The licensing officer shall review the completed application submitted by the
applicant and issue a certificate in accordance with the following:
   A.   Temporary Certificate:
      1.   A temporary certificate shall issue allowing the applicant to
immediately begin door to door solicitation upon the following conditions:
         a.   Applicant's submission of a completed application;
         b.   Applicant's submission of the required fee;
         c.   Applicant establishes proof of identity;
         d.   The applicant's representations on the application form do not
affirmatively show a disqualifying status;
         e.   The BCI does not affirmatively show a disqualifying status; and
         f.   The applicant has not previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   A temporary certificate will automatically expire after twenty five
(25) calendar days from issuance, or upon grant or denial of an annual
certificate, whichever period is shorter.
   B.   Annual Certificate: Within twenty five (25) calendar days of the
issuance of a temporary certificate the city shall:
      1.   Take any and all actions it deems appropriate to verify the
truthfulness and completeness of the information submitted by the applicant,
including, but not limited to, those disclosed with the application form.
      2.   Issue written notice to the applicant and the responsible person or
entity, if any, that the applicant either:
         a.   Will be issued an annual certificate, eligible for renewal one
year from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate; or
         b.   Will not be issued an annual certificate for reasons cited in
section
5.31.140 of this chapter.
   C.   Renewal Certificate: An annual certificate shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate and shall expire at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the anniversary date of issuance. Any annual
certificate that is not suspended, revoked, or expired may be renewed upon the
request of the registered solicitor and the submission of a new completed
application and payment of the fee, unless any of the conditions for the
denial, suspension or revocation of a certificate are present as set forth in
section
5.31.140 of this chapter, or a disqualifying status is present. (Ord. 06-71 §
2, 2006)
5.31.110: FORM OF CERTIFICATE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE:
   A.   Certificate Form: Should the licensing officer determine that the
applicant is entitled to a certificate, the licensing officer shall issue a
certificate to the applicant. The certificate shall list the name of the
registered solicitor and the responsible person or entity, if any, and the date
on which the certificate expires. The certificate shall be dated and signed by
the licensing officer. The certificate shall be carried by the registered
solicitor at all times while soliciting in the city.
   B.   Identification Badge: With both the temporary and annual certificates,
the city shall issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that
shall be worn prominently on his or her person while soliciting in the city.
The identification badge shall bear the name of the city and shall contain: 1)
the name of the registered solicitor; 2) address and phone number of the
registered solicitor (or the name, address, and phone number of the responsible
person or entity is provided); 3) a recent photograph of the registered
solicitor; and 4) the date on which the certificate expires. (Ord. 06-71 § 2,
2006)
5.31.120: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The licensing officer shall maintain and make available for public inspection a
copy or record of every completed application received and the certificate or
written denial issued by the city. The applicant's BCI background check shall
remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public
inspection. The licensing officer may furnish to the head of the city's law
enforcement agency a listing of all applicants, those denied, and those issued
a certificate. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.130: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF CERTIFICATES:
Certificates shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and shall list
the responsible party or entity, if any. The certificate shall be
nontransferable. A registered solicitor desiring to facilitate or attempt to
facilitate home solicitation sales with different: a) goods or services; or b)
responsible person or entity, from those designated in the originally submitted
completed application, shall submit a written change request to the licensing
officer. A new certificate based on the amended information shall issue for the
balance of time remaining on the solicitor's previous certificate before the
amendment was filed. Before the new certificate is given to the registered
solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a revised identification badge
from the city, after payment of the fee for the identification badge. (Ord. 06-
71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.140: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Denial: Upon review, the licensing officer shall refuse to issue a
certificate to an applicant for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Denial Of Temporary Certificate:
         a.   The application form is not complete;
         b.   The applicant fails to: 1) establish proof of identity, 2)
provide a BCI or 3) pay the fees;
         c.   The completed application or BCI indicates that the applicant has
a disqualifying status; or
         d.   The applicant has previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or has had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   Denial Of Annual Certificate:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant at the time of the
granting of the temporary certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the completed application, the applicant
is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application, the city has received a
substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the applicant;
         e.   Since the submission of the application, the city or other
governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil
injunction against the applicant for violating this chapter or similar federal,
state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying
status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of
the applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523
(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
      3.   Denial Of Annual Certificate Renewal:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant when seeking renewal
of a certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the renewal application, the applicant is
subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application or granting of a
certificate, the city has received a substantiated report regarding the past or
present conduct of the solicitor;
         e.   The city or other governmental entity has either criminally
convicted or obtained a civil injunction against the applicant for violating
this chapter or similar federal, state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to
the level of a disqualifying status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of
the applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523
(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation: The city shall either suspend or revoke a
certificate when any of the reasons warranting the denial of a certificate
occurs.
   C.   Notice Of Denial Or Suspension: Upon determination of the licensing
officer to deny an applicant's completed application or to suspend a registered
solicitor's certificate, the city shall cause written notice to be sent to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the method indicated in the completed
application. The notice shall specify the grounds for the denial or suspension,
the documentation or information the city relied on to make the decision, the
availability of the documentation for review by applicant upon one business
day's notice to the city, and the date upon which the denial or suspension of
the certificate shall take effect. It shall further state that the applicant or
registered solicitor shall have ten (10) business days from the receipt of the
notice of denial or suspension to appeal the same. The denial or suspension of
the certificate shall be effective no sooner than two (2) calendar days from
the date the notice is sent, unless that suspension is because of exigent
circumstances outlined in subsection C4 of the definition of "substantiated
report", in section
5.31.030 of this chapter, in which case, the suspension is effective
immediately. The denial or suspension shall remain effective unless and until
the order is rescinded, overturned on appeal, or determined by a court to be
contrary to equity or law. Failure to appeal the suspension of a certificate
automatically results in its revocation. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.150: APPEAL:
An applicant or registered solicitor whose certificate has been denied or
suspended shall have the right to appeal to the city council or its designee.
Any appeal must be submitted by either the applicant, the responsible person or
entity, or legal counsel for either who: a) documents the relationship with the
applicant or responsible person or entity; or b) is licensed or authorized by
the state of Utah to do so, and makes the assertion of an agency relationship.
The following procedures and requirements shall apply:
   A.   Any appeal must be submitted in writing to the city recorder with a
copy to the licensing officer within ten (10) business days of the decision
from which the appeal is taken. Such appeal shall describe in detail the nature
of the appeal, the action complained of and the grounds for appeal.
   B.   Upon request of the applicant or registered solicitor, within one
business day, the city will make available any information upon which it relied
in making the determination to either deny or suspend the certificate.
   C.   The appeals officer shall review, de novo, all written information
submitted by the applicant or registered solicitor to the licensing officer,
any additional information relied upon by the licensing officer as the basis
for denial, suspension or revocation, and any additional information supplied
by the city, applicant or registered solicitor. Any additional information
submitted by any party to the appeal to the appeals officer shall be
simultaneously submitted to the opposing party. If desired, any party shall
have three (3) business days to submit rebuttal documentation to the appeals
officer regarding the additional information submitted by the opposing party.
   D.   The appeals officer will render a decision no later than fifteen (15)
calendar days from the date the appeal was taken, unless an extension of time
is agreed upon by the parties. In the event that any party to the appeal
submits rebuttal information as allowed in subsection C of this section, the
fifteen (15) calendar days shall be extended to include the additional three
(3) days for rebuttal.
      1.   The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be reversed by the
appeals officer if upon review of the written appeal and information submitted,
the appeals officer finds that the licensing officer made a material mistake of
law or fact in denying or suspending the applicant's or registered solicitor's
certificate.
      2.   If the written appeal and information submitted indicates that the
licensing officer properly denied or suspended the certificate of the applicant
or registered solicitor, the denial or suspension of the certificate shall be
affirmed and constitute a determination that the suspended certificate is
revoked.
      3.   The decision of the appeals officer shall be delivered to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the means designated in the completed
application, or as otherwise agreed upon when the appeal was filed.
   E.   After the ruling of the appeals officer, the applicant or solicitor is
deemed to have exhausted all administrative remedies with the city.
   F.   Nothing herein shall impede or interfere with the applicant's,
solicitor's, or city's right to seek relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.160: DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or
fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   B.   A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the consumer during face to
face solicitation: 1) the name of the solicitor; 2) the name and address of the
entity with whom the solicitor is associated; and 3) the purpose of the
solicitor's contact with the person and/or competent individual. This
requirement may be satisfied through the use of the badge and an informational
flyer.
   C.   No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or any name other
than his or her true and correct name.
   D.   No solicitor shall represent directly or by implication that the
granting of a certificate of registration implies any endorsement by the city
of the solicitor's goods or services or of the individual solicitor. (Ord. 06-
71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.170: "NO SOLICITATION" NOTICE:
   A.   Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse
solicitors by displaying a "no solicitation" sign which shall be posted on or
near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the
sidewalk leading to the residence.
   B.   The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute
notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to
receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each residence
for the presence of any such notice.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall apply also to solicitors who are
exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 06-
71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.180: DUTIES OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   Every person soliciting or advocating shall check each residence for
any "no soliciting" sign or placard or any other notice or sign notifying a
solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as, but not limited to, "no
solicitation" signs. If such sign or placard is posted such solicitor shall
desist from any efforts to solicit at the residence or dwelling and shall
immediately depart from such property. Possession of a certificate of
registration does not in any way relieve any solicitor of this duty.
   B.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person soliciting or
advocating to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any other manner
attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears a "no
solicitation" sign or similar sign or placard for the purpose of engaging in or
attempting to engage in advocating, a home solicitation sale, door to door
soliciting, or soliciting.
   C.   It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor through ruse,
deception, or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to solicit, to take action
calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.
   D.   Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an occupant of a residence or
dwelling to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart.
   E.   The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly make any physical
contact with, or touch another person without the person's consent.
   F.   The solicitor shall not follow a person into a residence without their
explicit consent.
   G.   The solicitor shall not continue repeated soliciting after a person
and/or competent individual has communicated clearly and unequivocally their
lack of interest in the subject, goods or services of the solicitor.
   H.   The solicitor shall not use obscene language or gestures. (Ord. 06-71 §
2, 2006)
5.31.190: TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at a
residence before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Mountain Time, unless the solicitor has express prior permission from the
resident to do so. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.200: BUYER'S RIGHT TO CANCEL:
In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain buyer's signature to a written
statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the third
business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "buyer's
right to cancel" shall be in the form required by section 70C-5-103, Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, or a current version thereof or any state or federal law
modifying or amending such provision. (Ord. 06-71 § 2, 2006)
5.31.210: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or a jail sentence of not to exceed six (6)
months. (Ord. 06-71 § 2 2006)
CHAPTER 5.32
TATTOO ESTABLISHMENTS AND MASSAGE PARLORS
SECTION:
5.32.010: General Provisions
5.32.020: License; Compliance Required
5.32.010: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all business licenses
required or granted by the city for tattoo establishments or massage
establishments as the establishments are defined by the regulations adopted by
the Bear River district board of health concerning such established on March 1,
1984. (Prior code § 10-10-1)
5.32.020: LICENSE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No business license shall be granted to a tattoo establishment or massage
parlor as the establishments are defined in the Bear River district board of
health regulations unless the city recorder or license administrator makes a
specific finding that the applicant is in compliance with the Bear River
district board of health regulations concerning such establishments. (Prior
code § 10-10-2)
CHAPTER 5.34
TAXICAB DRIVERS
SECTION:
5.34.010: License Required
5.34.020: License; Application
5.34.030: Photograph Of Driver Required
5.34.040: License; Display
5.34.010: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person driving a taxicab within the city limits of the city must:
   A.   Have a valid chauffeur's license issued by the state;
   B.   Be licensed by the city to drive a taxicab. (Prior code § 7-12-1)
5.34.020: LICENSE; APPLICATION:
Every applicant for a taxicab driver's license must fill out an application
form provided by the city license administrator which shall contain the
following information: full name, residence, places of residence for the
previous five (5) years, place of previous employment, whether any driver's or
chauffeur's license has ever been suspended or revoked and for what cause, and
the name and issue date and expiration date of a valid chauffeur's license
issued by the state. (Prior code § 7-12-2)
5.34.030: PHOTOGRAPH OF DRIVER REQUIRED:
Each applicant for a taxicab driver's license must file with their application
three (3) unmounted, unretouched photographs of themselves taken within thirty
(30) days preceding the filing of her or his application. The photographs shall
be passport size and one of such photographs shall be attached to the taxicab
driver's license when issued. (Prior code § 7-12-3)
5.34.040: LICENSE; DISPLAY:
Taxicab driver's license shall be displayed in the taxicab when it is being
operated by the licensed driver. (Prior code § 7-12-4)
CHAPTER 5.35
SIDEWALK VENDORS AND CAFES 1
SECTION:
5.35.010: Definitions
5.35.020: License Required
5.35.030: Insurance Required
5.35.040: General Requirements For Sidewalk Vendors
5.35.050: Sidewalk Vendor License Application And Approval Process
5.35.060: Sidewalk Cafe Standards
5.35.070: Sidewalk Cafe License Application And Approval Process
5.35.080: Appeals Process
 
Notes
1 1. Prior history: Ord. 91-28 § 1, 1991.
   
5.35.010: DEFINITIONS:
SIDEWALK CAFE: An outdoor extension of an existing licensed restaurant that is
adjacent to the restaurant and extends in any way onto public right of way.
SIDEWALK VENDOR: Any person licensed under this chapter, who sells, or offers
to sell food, nonalcoholic beverages, balloons, cut flowers, caps, clothing,
accessories, souvenirs, handmade crafts, or like products on a public sidewalk.
(Ord. 02-63 § 1, 2002)
5.35.020: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to display, offer for sale, or sell any
retail goods on a public sidewalk or other public right of way without having
first complied with the provisions of this chapter and without having first
obtained a business license as a sidewalk vendor (also referred to as a vendor
in this chapter), or as a sidewalk cafe, as applicable.
   B.   Any material changes to the business operation, ownership (including
business structure), product or location shall require a new license
application and review process. The licensee is required to notify the division
prior to any such change.
   C.   Any new officer, partner, member, or manager shall require submission
of their information on a form prescribed by the division. The licensee is
required to notify the division as the change occurs.
   D.   A renewal application and payment is required annually. Renewal
approval will be based on continual compliance with the license requirements.
   E.   Violation of this section and chapter is grounds for license suspension
or revocation. (Ord. 02-63 § 1, 2002)
5.35.030: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Applicant shall agree to hold the city and its employees and agents harmless
and to indemnify and defend the city, its employees and agents, against all
claims, liability, loss, damage, or expense, including attorney fees, resulting
from the activities of the licensee upon public sidewalks or other public right
of way. Applicant shall maintain a commercial general liability insurance
policy with minimum limits as approved by the business license administrator.
Any deductible or self-insured retention must be declared to and approved by
the city. A current certificate of insurance must be kept on file with the
business license administrator verifying continuing coverage and naming the
city as an additional insured. The certificate shall provide thirty (30) days'
written notice to the city upon cancellation, nonrenewal or material change in
the policy. (Ord. 02-63 § 1, 2002)
5.35.040: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SIDEWALK VENDORS:
All sidewalk vendors are required to conduct their business only as approved in
the license application process.
   A.   Cart: If a cart is to be used, a photograph or drawing showing the
appearance of the cart shall be submitted upon application. The cart must be
maintained as approved.
   B.   Signs: Any proposed signage must be identified upon application and
shall not be used without proper permit, as required. Only signs attached or
painted directly on the cart or the cart's canopy shall be permitted.
   C.   Location: Each license shall specify the location where the vendor and/
or cart is approved to operate. No operation shall occur at locations other
than the approved site. No carts shall remain on the sidewalk when not open for
business.
   D.   Separation Distances: All vendors/carts located upon the public
sidewalk shall not obstruct business display windows and signs, and shall
maintain the following separation distances:
      1.   A minimum of five feet (5') from any building entrance or walkway;
      2.   No less than twenty feet (20') from any driveway;
      3.   A minimum of six feet (6') of unobstructed sidewalk width for
pedestrian traffic at all times;
      4.   Not less than twenty feet (20') from an intersection and not within
the sight distance triangle at any street intersection according to codified
definition 1 ; and
      5.   Any other separation distance required for specific site and
circumstance. (Ord. 02-63 § 1, 2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See the zoning ordinance.
   
5.35.050: SIDEWALK VENDOR LICENSE APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Applications for a sidewalk vending license shall be on forms provided
or required by the city, including:
      1.   A diagram or map identifying the specific site location compliant
with the requirements of this chapter;
      2.   A completed zoning and planning form;
      3.   A completed business license application form providing information
on all owners and operators of the business;
      4.   A completed right of way permit form, as directed;
      5.   A drawing or photograph of the proposed cart and signage to be used
and specifying the proposed colors for such;
      6.   A list of all products to be sold; and
      7.   Any other information the business license administrator deems
necessary to enforce this chapter.
   B.   Applications shall be subject to the general licensing provisions
specified in chapter 5.02 of this title, in addition to the restrictions
specified in this section.
   C.   Applications shall be subject to review by code authorities, including
those for public works, planning, zoning, building, fire, police, health, and
others as indicated for the product and vendor.
   D.   Approvals shall be based on a combination of code compliance in all
applicable areas and the qualifications of the on site vendor:
      1.   The applicant must be considered an adult by Utah law;
      2.   The applicant and any on site vendor shall not be approved if there
have been any criminal convictions or unresolved criminal proceedings for
conduct that has the potential to threaten public safety;
      3.   The applicant and any on site vendor must obtain and maintain proper
business and sales tax registration for all aspects of the operation prior to
operating, including food handler permits, as applicable; and
      4.   Any other factors or circumstances review authorities consider
necessary to protect the public and enhance the community, such as:
         a.   Pedestrian traffic and site compatibility with proposed
operation,
         b.   Proximity to other vending operations, and
         c.   Ability of the applicant to manage the operation and maintain
compliance with all laws and local code. (Ord. 02-63 § 1, 2002)
5.35.060: SIDEWALK CAFE STANDARDS:
   A.   Sidewalk cafes located upon a public sidewalk shall be limited to
specifically approved right of way in appropriate zones.
   B.   All sidewalk cafes located upon a public walkway shall be located
adjacent to the existing licensed restaurant for which the sidewalk cafe is
proposed, and shall not exceed specifications granted by the public right of
way permit. The sidewalk cafe design and layout shall be subject to approval by
city planners. If umbrellas are allowed, they must be anchored securely to
withstand winds, etc. (Ord. 02-63 § 1, 2002)
5.35.070: SIDEWALK CAFE LICENSE APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Applications for a sidewalk cafe license shall be on forms provided or
required by the city, including:
      1.   A diagram showing proposed cafe design and layout;
      2.   A completed zoning and planning form;
      3.   A completed business license application form;
      4.   A completed right of way permit form, as directed;
      5.   Any other information the business license administrator deems
necessary to enforce this chapter.
   B.   Applications shall be subject to the general licensing provisions
specified in chapter 5.02 of this title, in addition to the restrictions
specified in this section.
   C.   Applications shall be subject to review by code authorities, including
those for public works, planning, zoning, building, fire, police, and health.
(Ord. 02-63 § 1, 2002)
5.35.080: APPEALS PROCESS:
The denial, conditional approval, nonrenewal, probation, suspension, or
revocation of any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be appealed as
set forth in section
5.02.160 of this title. (Ord. 02-63 § 1, 2002)
CHAPTER 5.36
VENDING MACHINES
SECTION:
5.36.010: Definitions
5.36.020: Classifications
5.36.030: License Fees
5.36.040: Regulations And Restrictions
5.36.050: Violation
5.36.010: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
5.02.020 of this title, the following words and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the meanings prescribed in this section:
EXHIBITOR: A person on whose premises a vending machine may be located pursuant
to arrangements with the owner or lessee of such machine.
VENDING MACHINES: Coin operated machines that dispense merchandise, items such
as foods, drinks, toys, notebooks, gum, candies, cigarettes, etc., or services
such as blood pressure, weight reading, etc. (Prior code § 7-8-1)
5.36.020: CLASSIFICATIONS:
Vending machines are classified as follows:
   A.   Class A: All vending machines with maximum single sales of not to
exceed fifty cents ($0.50), but not less than eleven cents ($0.11);
   B.   Class B: All vending machines with maximum single sales of fifty one
cents ($0.51) or more. (Prior code § 7-8-2)
5.36.030: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Owners of vending machines shall pay a license fee to the division as
follows:
      1.   Class A: Five dollars ($5.00) per machine per annum;
      2.   Class B: Ten dollars ($10.00) per machine per annum.
   B.   Fee payments and prorations as well as renewal billings shall be
governed by the provisions of sections
5.02.210 and
5.02.220 of this title. (Prior code § 7-8-3)
5.36.040: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
The licenses provided for in this chapter relative to vending machines in all
classes shall be subject to the following regulations and restrictions:
   A.   The license fee for the machines shall be paid by the owner of such
machines, not the exhibitor.
   B.   An identification sticker shall be posted conspicuously on each vending
machine, which shall indicate that such machine is licensed for the current
year.
   C.   Vending machines may be rotated by the owner thereof from one location
to another as long as the total number of machines does not increase.
   D.   If the licensee shall move their place of business to another location
within the city, the license for the machines may be transferred to such new
location upon application to the division pursuant to section
5.02.300 of this title.
   E.   Any vending machines that are owned by and exhibited in schools,
churches and public buildings or owned by state, federal or other governmental
agencies, such as postage machines, shall be exempted from licensing of the
vending machines. Nonprofit business exemptions are stated in section
5.02.030 of this title. (Prior code § 7-8-4(a) – (e))
5.36.050: VIOLATION:
It shall be a misdemeanor to falsify any information on any application for
license under this chapter. (Prior code § 7-8-4(f))
CHAPTER 5.38
WHOLESALE LICENSES
SECTION:
5.38.010: Annual License Fee
5.38.010: ANNUAL LICENSE FEE:
Every wholesaler maintaining an agency or warehouse for distribution of
gasoline and lubricating oil, groceries or produce at wholesale, within the
city shall pay an annual license fee in the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00).
(Prior code § 7-18-1)
CHAPTER 5.40
WRESTLING/BOXING EXHIBITIONS
SECTION:
5.40.010: License Required
5.40.020: License Tax
5.40.010: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or association to engage in, conduct or
give any boxing or wrestling match or similar exhibition within the city
without first obtaining a license therefor. (Prior code § 7-14-1)
5.40.020: LICENSE TAX:
The license tax to be paid into the treasury of the city for such license shall
be the sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). Each applicant for a license
shall file with his application a good and sufficient cash deposit in the sum
of three hundred dollars ($300.00), payable to the city. (Prior code § 7-14-1)
CHAPTER 5.41
ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES
SECTION:
5.41.010: Definitions
5.41.020: License Required
5.41.030: Additional Application Information
5.41.040: Annual Operation And Insurance
5.41.050: Insurance
5.41.060: Indemnification
5.41.070: License Required For Operators
5.41.080: Carriage Specifications
5.41.090: Traffic Laws
5.41.100: Speed
5.41.110: Presence And Control
5.41.120: Number Of Passengers
5.41.130: Passengers Restricted To Passenger Area
5.41.140: Carriage Terminal
5.41.150: Routes
5.41.160: Rates
5.41.170: Revocation Or Suspension
5.41.180: Misdemeanor
5.41.010: DEFINITIONS:
ANIMAL: Any live, nonhuman vertebrate creature, including fowl.
APPLICANT: The person signing an application for an animal drawn vehicle
business license.
CARRIAGE BUSINESS: Any person offering to transport another person for any
valuable consideration and by means of an animal drawn vehicle.
CARRIAGE OR ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLE: Any device in, upon, or by which any person
is or may be transported or drawn upon a public way and which is designed to be
drawn by animals.
CARRIAGE TERMINAL: The location of a curb lane designated by the city of Logan
for loading and unloading of passengers for an animal drawn vehicle.
CITY OR CITY OF LOGAN: Logan City Municipal Corporation.
DRIVER: Any person operating or in actual physical control of an animal drawn
vehicle, or any person sitting in the driver's seat of such vehicle with the
intention of causing it to be moved by an animal.
HOLDER: Any person to whom a license has been issued by Logan City, and which
license is unexpired.
PERSON: Includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, other
legal entity. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.020: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate, or permit an animal drawn vehicle owned or controlled
by him or her to be operated, as a carriage for hire upon the streets of the
city without first having obtained a business license in accordance with this
chapter. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.030: ADDITIONAL APPLICATION INFORMATION:
In addition to the application information required for a license by business
licensing, an application to operate a carriage business shall be verified
under oath, shall show the experience of the applicant in the transportation of
passengers by animal drawn carriage and shall show the specific route or routes
within the city along which applicant proposes to operate one or more animal
drawn carriages. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.040: ANNUAL OPERATION AND INSURANCE:
   A.   In addition to any other requirements established in state law and this
code, no business license shall be issued or continued in operation unless:
      1.   The applicant or holder thereof has paid an annual business license
fee as determined by city council from time to time;
      2.   The applicant or holder thereof presents proof that they have
acquired liability insurance as required by section
5.41.050 of this chapter; and
      3.   The applicant or holder thereof executes the indemnification
agreement as required by section
5.41.060 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.050: INSURANCE:
   A.   No holder shall operate, or permit an animal drawn vehicle owned or
controlled by him or her to be operated, as a carriage for hire upon the
streets of the city, without first having obtained a minimum of one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) of liability insurance. Said liability insurance shall
be maintained throughout the period of the operation of the carriage business.
   B.   A holder or applicant for a carriage business shall be required to
present evidence that the holder has liability insurance as required herein.
   C.   A holder or the operator of a carriage licensed under this chapter
shall have in the holder's or operator's immediate possession, evidence of the
holder's liability insurance as required by this section. Evidence of the
holder's liability insurance includes any one of the following:
      1.   A copy of the holder's insurance policy; or
      2.   A card issued by an insurance company as evidence of the holder's
insurance.
   D.   The holder or operator of an animal drawn vehicle is required to
provide proof of the liability insurance required by this section upon demand
of:
      1.   Any law enforcement officer; or
      2.   Any person authorized to request such information by business
licensing. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.060: INDEMNIFICATION:
Prior to the issuance of any license to operate a carriage business pursuant to
this chapter, each applicant must execute an indemnification agreement with the
city. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.070: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR OPERATORS:
It is unlawful for any person to operate or for a holder to permit any person
to operate a carriage for hire upon the streets of the city without such
operator having first obtained and having then in force a current driver's
license valid in the state of Utah. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.080: CARRIAGE SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Each carriage coming into Logan is required to be in safe and efficient
operating condition, and comply with all requirements of state law, including,
but not limited to, equipment, lights, illumination devices and slow moving
vehicle identification emblems.
   B.   Each carriage shall permanently and prominently display on the rear
portion of each carriage the name and telephone number of the carriage
business.
   C.   Each carriage shall be equipped with a device to catch animal fecal
matter falling to the pavement.
   D.   Each carriage shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.090: TRAFFIC LAWS:
A driver operating an animal drawn vehicle shall be subject to all laws of the
city and the state of Utah pertaining to the driver and operation of any
vehicle. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.100: SPEED:
The driver shall not permit the speed at which any animal drawn vehicle is
driven to exceed a slow trot. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.110: PRESENCE AND CONTROL:
No driver shall leave the carriage unattended in a public place. (Ord. 13-92,
2013)
5.41.120: NUMBER OF PASSENGERS:
No driver shall permit a carriage to carry more passengers than it was designed
to carry. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.130: PASSENGERS RESTRICTED TO PASSENGER AREA:
No driver shall permit a passenger to ride on any part of the carriage while in
motion, unless the passenger is seated inside the carriage. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.140: CARRIAGE TERMINAL:
Approved on street carriage terminals include those areas designated by
business licensing in consultation with the city engineer. Drivers shall not
stop on a street except at carriage terminals and then no longer than allowed
at each carriage terminal as determined by business licensing as part of a
route determination pursuant to section
5.41.150 of this chapter. Drivers shall not stop at designated bus stops, bus
lanes, or any other restricted parking areas. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.150: ROUTES:
   A.   The licensees and drivers shall operate animal drawn carriages only
upon certain streets within specified routes according to restrictions
authorized by business licensing. In determining said routes or restrictions,
business licensing shall seek to ensure safe and efficient movement of
transportation within the city, and shall take into consideration the location
of the streets therein, the expected traffic flow upon such streets, the
history of traffic accidents upon such streets, the width of such streets, and
any natural or manmade physical features of such streets which may be pertinent
to the safe and efficient movement of transportation thereon.
   B.   The authorized routes and carriage terminals shall be subject to
amendment from time to time by business licensing in order to ensure safe and
efficient movement of transportation within the city. A driver must receive
prior permission of business licensing to deviate from streets which have not
been approved for routes or destinations which require use or crossing of
streets designated as arterial or collector streets on the city's major street
plan and official map. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.160: RATES:
All drivers must make available to any person upon request, the rates for all
tours and trips offered by the service. Once a vehicle has been hired for a
designated route, the driver may not accept additional passengers without the
original contracting passengers' consent. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.170: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
If any person to whom a license has been issued pursuant to this chapter
commits a violation of this chapter, such license may be revoked or suspended
according to the procedure provided for revocation or suspension of a business
license issued by the city. (Ord. 13-92, 2013)
5.41.180: MISDEMEANOR:
Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 13-92, 2013)
CHAPTER 5.42
VIOLATION; PENALTY
SECTION:
5.42.010: Penalty Provisions
5.42.010: PENALTY PROVISIONS:
Any person violating any of the provisions of chapters 5.02, 5.04, 5.06, 5.08,
5.10, 5.12, 5.14, 5.16, 5.18, 5.20, 5.22, 5.28, 5.34, 5.36, 5.38 and 5.40 of
this title shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Penalty provisions pertaining to
violations of this code are found in chapter 1.16 of this code. (1989 Code:
prior code § 7-21-1)
TITLE 6
RESERVED
TITLE 6A
ANIMAL CONTROL
CHAPTER 6A.02
TITLE, PURPOSE, AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
6A.02.010: Title
6A.02.020: Purpose And Intent
6A.02.030: Definitions
6A.02.010: TITLE:
This title is known as COMPREHENSIVE ANIMAL CONTROL. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.02.020: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this title to provide for comprehensive animal
control regulations to govern the City and protect life and property. It is the
intent of this title that the City's animal services provider administer and
comply with:
   A.   The Animal Welfare Act set forth in Utah Code section 11-46-101 et seq.
   B.   The Animal Shelter Pet Sterilization Act set forth in Utah Code section
11-46-201 et seq.
   C.   The Community Cat Act set forth in Utah Code section 11-46-301 et seq.
(Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.02.030: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Means any and all types of livestock, birds, reptiles, dogs and cats,
and all other subhuman creatures, domestic and wild, male and female, singular
and plural.
ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT: Means any person, entity or establishment that
boards or otherwise provides accommodations for other people's animals. This
definition is inclusive of a kennel, cattery, or related establishment where it
exceeds the permissible number allowed by City ordinance of dogs or cats
boarded, bred, bought, sold, adopted, or donated.
ANIMAL CONTROL: Means the entity and officers providing animal control services
to Logan City by contract or otherwise.
ANIMAL GROOMING ESTABLISHMENT: Means any entity or establishment maintained for
the purpose of offering grooming or cosmetology services for animals.
ANIMAL SHELTER OR SHELTER: Means any facility operated by a governmental entity
or an animal welfare organization duly organized under State law for the
purpose of preventing cruelty to animals and used for the care and custody of
seized, homeless, quarantined, abandoned, stray, or unwanted dogs, cats, or
other domestic animals.
ANIMALS AT-LARGE: Means an animal shall be considered to be "at- large" when,
except as provided in sections
6A.08.050 and
6A.08.070 of this title, said animal is off the owner's property and not under
immediate control, by means of a durable restraint device, capable of keeping
the animal restrained; or an animal that is on the property of the owner and
not securely confined by a leash, building, fenced area, appropriate transport
device or other effective means.
ANIMALS FOR FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION: Means any domesticated animal commonly kept
for utility or food production rather than pleasure and includes, but is not
limited to, cattle, sheep, goats, mules, burros, horses, chickens, geese,
ducks, turkeys, llamas, swine, bees, or similar animal.
BITE: Means any actual puncture, tear, or abrasion of the skin or clothing
inflicted by the teeth of an animal to a person or domesticated animal.
CAT: Means any age feline, of the domestic type.
COMMUNITY CAT PROGRAM: Means a feral cat program established in accordance with
Utah Code section 11-46-301 et seq. The same definition as set forth in Utah
Code section 11-46-302 is adopted and incorporated herein.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Means any animal that, according to the records of animal
control or another law enforcement/animal control agency:
   A.   Has inflicted a serious bite or physical injury on a human being, with
or without provocation, on public or private property;
   B.   Has killed a domestic animal, with or without provocation, while off
the owner's property;
   C.   Causes a domesticated animal to be euthanized due to injury inflicted
by said animal;
   D.   Has previously been found to be potentially dangerous, as provided
herein, and subsequently aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety
of a human or domestic animal.
DIRECTOR: Means the person or persons with supervisory authority over the day-
to-day affairs of animal control and the animal shelter.
DOG: Means any Canis familiaris over four (4) months of age. Any Canis
familiaris under the age of four (4) months is a puppy.
DOMESTICATED ANIMAL: Means any animal, excepting wild animals as defined
herein, that is accustomed to living in or about the habitation of man that is
kept for utility or pleasure, including, but not limited to, cats, dogs, and
animals for family food production.
EMOTIONAL SUPPORT ANIMAL: Means an assistance animal that provides solely
emotional support or well-being, comfort or companionship. An emotional support
animal is not a service animal.
ENCLOSURE: As it relates to dogs, means a fence or structure of at least six
feet (6') in height, forming or causing an enclosure suitable to confine a
vicious dog in conjunction with other measures which may be taken by the owner
or keeper, such as tethering the vicious dog.
EXOTIC PET: Means a rare or unusual non-protected animal species that is
classified by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and under State law as
approved for keeping as a pet, unless otherwise restricted by this title.
Permitted exotic pets only include those species commercially available at
typical retail pet shops in the area and include non-venomous snakes, non-
poisonous small reptiles, non-poisonous amphibians, tortoises, ferrets,
potbelly pigs, exotic birds, sugar gliders, degas, hedgehogs, domesticated
silver fox, and non-poisonous insects.
FERAL CATS: Means cats that exist in a wild state and determined not to have an
owner and have reverted to wild state.
GOVERNMENT WORKING DOG: Means a dog trained to assist government officials in
public safety or law enforcement.
GUARD DOG: Means a working dog which must be kept in a fenced run or other
suitable enclosure during business hours, and on a leash or under absolute
control while working so that it cannot come into contact with the public.
HOLDING FACILITY: Means an animal impound, animal shelter, humane
establishment, or any other similar facility used for holding animals.
IMPOUNDED ANIMAL: Means any animal taken into custody by animal control, the
Police Department, another governmental entity, or a facility.
LEASH OR LEAD: Means any chain, rope, strap or similar device designed and used
to restrain an animal.
LICENSED DOG: Means a dog wearing its current dog license tag obtained from the
animal services designated by the City.
LIVESTOCK: Means livestock defined by State law and includes the typical
domesticated animals for family food production.
NEUTERED ANIMAL: Means an animal having had the testicles removed or castrated.
OFFICER: Means an animal control officer, governmental official, law
enforcement officer, or other individual authorized to enforce or act within
the scope of this title.
OPEN WOUND: Means any puncture, laceration, tear, or injury that causes blood
loss of any amount.
OWNER: Means any person who is the legal owner, keeper, possessor, or the
actual custodian of animal. Ownership may be established by a person
registering as owner on a license or other legal document or being a person
claiming ownership and taking possession of an animal. Ownership may also be
established by evidence that would lead a reasonable person to conclude
ownership including, but not limited to, veterinary records, microchip records,
license and registration information, pedigree registries, and photographic
evidence. Ownership does not include a "trap-neuter-return program" as defined
herein.
PET: Means a domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility,
including, but not limited to, birds, cats, dogs, tropical-type fish, rabbits,
hamsters, mice, and similar animals.
PET SHOP: Means a retail business containing cages or exhibition pens, where
dogs, cats, birds or other pets for sale are kept or displayed. A pet shop is
not classified as animal boarding establishment, kennel, or cattery for the
purposes of this title.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Means any animal that, with or without
provocation, chases or approaches a person upon the streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds, in a threatening or menacing fashion, or apparent attitude of
attack, or any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack with or without provocation. In addition, a potentially dangerous animal
is any animal that because of witnessed and documented action, is believed
capable of causing injury, or otherwise posing a threat to the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
QUARANTINE: Means the isolation of an animal under the observation of a
licensed veterinarian or in the custody of the animal shelter or in-home
confinement in a substantial enclosure so that the animal is not subject to
contact with other animals or unauthorized persons.
RESIDENCE: Means any legally recognized dwelling such as a home, apartment, or
condominium.
RESTRAINT DEVICE: Means any chain, leash, cord, rope, or other device commonly
used to restrain an animal.
RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE: Means an establishment which offers boarding and/or
riding instruction of any horse, pony, donkey, mule or burro or which offers
such animals for hire.
SERVICE ANIMAL: Means any dog that is individually trained, or is in training,
to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability,
including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual or other mental
disability. The work or tasks must be directly related to the individual's
disability, including assisting an individual who is blind or has low vision
with navigation or other tasks; alerting an individual who is deaf or hard of
hearing to the presence of people or sounds; providing non-violent protection
or rescue work; pulling a wheelchair; assisting an individual during a seizure;
alerting an individual to the presence of an allergen; retrieving an item for
an individual; providing physical support and assistance with balance and
stability to an individual with a mobility disability; or helping an individual
with a psychiatric or neurological disability by preventing or interrupting
impulsive or destructive behaviors. Emotional support animals and comfort
animals are not considered service animals.
SPAYED: Means having had the ovaries and uterus removed or extirpated
(ovariohysterectomy).
STRAY: Means any animal running at-large, whose owner cannot be found after a
reasonable search and is governed by Utah Code section 11-46-103. For
livestock, stray (or estray) is more specifically defined as set forth in Utah
Code section 4-25-101 et seq., 1952 as amended.
TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN PROGRAM: A program established for the purpose of reducing
the feral cat population, conducted with the approval of Logan City animal
control.
VACCINATED DOG: Means a dog inoculated with an approved, currently valid,
antirabies vaccine, and wearing a current dog license tag indicating proof of
such vaccination.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Means a dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal that
presents a continued threat to the safety of a person, property, or another
animal.
WILD ANIMAL: Means any animal which is not commonly domesticated, listed as
protected by Federal or State law, or which may be perceived as wild or
predatory in nature, or any animal which, because of its size, growth
propensity, vicious nature or other characteristics, would constitute an
unreasonable danger to human life, or property if not kept, maintained, or
confined in safe and secure manner. Such animals include, but are not limited
to:
   A.   Alligators, crocodiles, caiman.
   B.   Bears (Ursidae).
   C.   Cat family (Felidae), except commonly accepted domesticated cats.
Includes cheetah, cougar, leopard, lion, lynx, panther, mountain lion, tiger,
wild cat, and similar animals.
   D.   Dog family (Canidae), except all domesticated dogs. Includes wolf, part
wolf, fox, part fox, coyote, part coyote, dingo, and similar animals.
   E.   Porcupine (Erethizontidae).
   F.   Primate (non-human). Includes all subhuman primates.
   G.   Raccoon (Procyonidae). All raccoons, including eastern raccoon, desert
raccoon, ring-tailed cat, and similar animals.
   H.   Skunks.
   I.   Venomous fish and piranha.
   J.   Venomous snakes and lizards.
   K.   Weasels (Mustelidae). All including weasels, martens, wolverines,
badgers, otters, ermine, mink, mongoose, and similar animals.
WILD UNPROTECTED ANIMALS: Means a wild animal that is not protected by any
State or Federal law, rule or regulation. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
CHAPTER 6A.04
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
6A.04.010: Animal Control Designated
6A.04.020: Director
6A.04.030: Duties Of Animal Control
6A.04.040: Interfering With Officers Prohibited
6A.04.050: Fees
6A.04.010: ANIMAL CONTROL DESIGNATED:
Unless otherwise designated by the City of Logan Mayor, Logan City animal
control is designated as the animal control service provider for the City and
for the purpose of resolving animal related occurrences within the City. Animal
control officers shall comply with all State training and certification prior
to acting as an animal control officer under this title. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.04.020: DIRECTOR:
The animal control service provider shall designate a person to act as the
Director. The Director shall be the contact person for the City and may oversee
one or more animal control officers as well as the animal shelter operations.
(Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.04.030: DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL:
Animal control and any officer of the same are hereby vested with the power and
authority to carry out the purpose of this title, and to:
   A.   Issue dog licenses.
   B.   Issue licenses for an animal boarding establishment after receipt of
approval or other licenses that may be required by the City, including business
licenses.
   C.   Issue citations for violations of this title.
   D.   Issue a determination relating to a potentially dangerous animal or
dangerous animal, apply reasonable restriction to the same, and monitor such
animals as necessary to protect life and property.
   E.   Conduct inspections relating to animal control and act as humane
officer in the care of all dogs and animals living within City limits.
   F.   Seek and bring proceedings for the abatement of certain animals as
provided by law or regulation.
   G.   In accordance with the procedures and rules prescribed by State Code,
may apprehend, restrain, impound, and/or quarantine any animal found in
violation of law or that constitutes a nuisance.
   H.   Advise on issues relating to animals.
   I.   Administer State and local law relating to animals.
   J.   Administer the provisions of this title. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.04.040: INTERFERING WITH OFFICERS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally interfere with the
Director or any animal control officer in the lawful discharge of their duties.
(Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.04.050: FEES:
Fees adopted for animal service are the same as the most current fees adopted
by the Logan City Council for the same. Late fees may apply as specified in the
applicable adopted fee schedule. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
CHAPTER 6A.06
LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6A.06.010: Limits On The Number Of Dogs And Cats Per Residence
6A.06.020: Limits On Exotic Animals
6A.06.030: Limits On Animals For Family Food Production
6A.06.040: Dog License Required And Issuance
6A.06.050: Dog Licenses Generally
6A.06.060: Dog Licensing Fees
6A.06.070: Dog License Exemptions
6A.06.080: Animal Boarding Establishment License (Kennel/Cattery License)
6A.06.090: Animal Boarding Establishment Licenses Generally
6A.06.100: Notice Of Change For Animal Boarding Establishment
6A.06.110: Renewal
6A.06.120: Animal Boarding Establishment Exemptions
6A.06.130: Inspections Of An Animal Boarding Establishment
6A.06.140: Basis For Adverse Action And Appeal
6A.06.010: LIMITS ON THE NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS PER RESIDENCE:
No person or persons at any one residence living in Logan City shall at any
time own, harbor, license, or maintain more than four (4) dogs or four (4)
cats, with no combination exceeding six (6) except as provided herein. Persons
that wish to possess more than the allowable number of animals shall apply for
and meet the conditions of a kennel/cattery license as outlined in section
6A.06.080 of this chapter. Individuals who have been approved by the Director
or Director's deputies as foster care providers for dogs or animals are exempt
from this section. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.06.020: LIMITS ON EXOTIC ANIMALS:
No person or persons at any one residence shall at any time own, harbor,
license, or maintain more than five (5) permitted exotic animals as defined in
this title. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.06.030: LIMITS ON ANIMALS FOR FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION:
The type and number of animals for family food production that may be kept is
limited and governed exclusively by the City's Land Use Ordinances and
regulations set forth in City ordinance. It is presumed that if a type of
animal is not expressly allowed as either a permitted or conditional use in a
specific land use zone as determined by City ordinances then that animal is
deemed prohibited. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.06.040: DOG LICENSE REQUIRED AND ISSUANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, or maintain a dog
over the age of four (4) months, without registering and obtaining a license
for such dogs from animal control. All dogs in the City shall require licensing
within thirty (30) days after they enter the City or within thirty (30) days
after having reached the age of four (4) months. Dog licenses shall be issued
to a person eighteen (18) years or older and based upon:
   A.   Applicant filing a complete application.
   B.   Applicant paying the applicable fee.
   C.   Applicant providing legitimate documentation whether a dog is spayed or
neutered.
   D.   Applicant providing proof that the dog has received current rabies
vaccination. The owner of any dog under the age of four (4) months shall
present to the animal control officer within fifteen (15) days after the dog
reaches the age of four (4) months a certificate from a veterinarian stating
that the dog has been vaccinated for the prevention of rabies, otherwise the
registration for such dog is void.
   E.   An owner who fails to properly register his or her dog shall be guilty
of an infraction. Any citation issued to an owner for failure to properly
register his or her dog will be dismissed upon the owner providing proof of
registration within fourteen (14) days of receiving the citation. (Ord. 19-06,
2019)
6A.06.050: DOG LICENSES GENERALLY:
Animal control shall issue a tag for each dog license granted under this
chapter. The dog license is:
   A.   To be placed and maintained on a dog collar for each dog licensed under
this chapter.
   B.   Valid for the term provided by animal control.
   C.   Non-transferable from one dog to another.
   D.   Non-refundable for any reason whatsoever.
   E.   The Director or his/her designee may revoke any license if the person
holding the license refuses or fails to comply with any provision of this title
or any State or local laws governing cruelty to animals or the keeping of
animals. Any person whose license is revoked shall, within ten (10) days,
humanely dispose of all dogs being owned, kept or harbored by such person and
no part of the licensing fee shall be refunded. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.06.060: DOG LICENSING FEES:
Except as provided herein, owners shall pay a licensing fee to the City at the
time of registration. Owners of dogs in the following classifications shall not
be required to pay a fee:
   A.   Service animal.
   B.   Any dog which has been duly or properly trained and placed in custody
of a police officer being used in Police Department work.
   C.   Any dog which has been trained as a service animal, but has not been
spayed or neutered, is not exempt from registration fees. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.06.070: DOG LICENSE EXEMPTIONS:
The following license exemptions apply:
   A.   Dog owners who are non-residents located within the City for less than
thirty (30) days, provided that the dog is duly licensed by another agency.
   B.   Government working dog.
   C.   Individual dogs within a bona fide retail pet shop, animal shelter or
veterinary establishment.
   D.   Notwithstanding subsections A through C of this section, nothing shall
be construed so as to exempt any dog from having a current rabies vaccination
at all times. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.06.080: ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE (KENNEL/CATTERY LICENSE):
No person shall operate or maintain an animal boarding establishment without
first obtaining a license from animal control. This license is separate from,
and in addition to, a business license required by the City. Applicants must
satisfy the following requirements before an animal boarding establishment
(kennel or cattery) license will be issued:
   A.   Applicant shall make application to the City and receive the
appropriate approval.
   B.   Applicant shall receive any approvals required from the local Health
Department.
   C.   Applicant shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local
regulations.
   D.   Applicant shall submit all City and any Health Department approvals to
animal control with an application for an animal boarding establishment license
(kennel/cattery license).
   E.   The City will provide to animal control in writing the total number of
dogs and/or cats allowed at the animal boarding establishment.
   F.   Animal control and/or the City building inspector will perform one or
more on-site inspections, and upon satisfactory inspection and completion of
the requirements herein, animal control will issue an animal boarding
establishment license (kennel/cattery license).
   G.   Any person conducting, operating or maintaining an animal boarding
establishment shall pay to the City an annual fee as set by the City.
   H.   Animal boarding establishment licenses shall also be valid for one year
from the date the license is issued. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.06.090: ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT LICENSES GENERALLY:
A license granted to an animal boarding establishment:
   A.   Shall be kept valid during the operation of the animal boarding
establishment.
   B.   Shall be posted at the animal boarding establishment in a conspicuous
location on the premises.
   C.   Is non-transferable to a new business or location.
   D.   Does not exempt the animal boarding establishment from having to obtain
individual dog licenses for each dog owned by the establishment. (Ord. 19-06,
2019)
6A.06.100: NOTICE OF CHANGE FOR ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT:
The licensee of an animal boarding establishment shall notify the City and
animal control within thirty (30) days of any change of its establishment or
operation which may affect the status of land use/conditional use permit or
license. The duty to notify as provided in this section is on the licensee.
(Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.06.110: RENEWAL:
Licensees shall renew animal boarding establishment licenses annually. Late
fees will be applied in the event that a renewal is after the established
deadline. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.06.120: ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT EXEMPTIONS:
The following are not subject to the animal boarding establishment license
regulation of this title:
   A.   Bona fide research facilities where medical or related research is
conducted in accordance with law.
   B.   Government shelters.
   C.   Animal shelters.
   D.   Bona fide retail pet shops where the selling of dogs or cats is
ancillary to the retail sales of the establishment. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.06.130: INSPECTIONS OF AN ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT:
As a condition of an animal boarding establishment license, the location of the
establishment is subject to periodic inspections by the City and/or animal
control. An animal boarding establishment shall be maintained within general
industry health and sanitation standards, and follow related industry standards
for the operation and maintenance of an animal boarding establishment.
Inspection reports may be filed with animal control as necessary. (Ord. 19-06,
2019)
6A.06.140: BASIS FOR ADVERSE ACTION AND APPEAL:
   A.   A license applied for or issued under this chapter may be denied,
suspended, or revoked by animal control for reasons that include, but are not
limited to the following, if:
      1.   Application filed is found to be incomplete.
      2.   Applicant failed to pay the required fee.
      3.   Applicant provided false or misleading information.
      4.   Applicant is in violation of any land use/conditional use permit,
animal control regulation, Building Code, Zoning Ordinance under this or
another jurisdiction which relates to the establishment.
      5.   Applicant is found to be maintaining or selling illegal species,
wild animals, or prohibited animals.
      6.   Applicant fails an inspection.
      7.   Applicant's operations are determined to be a nuisance.
      8.   Applicant, owner, or operator is convicted of a charge of cruelty to
animals.
   B.   The procedure for adverse action:
      1.   Animal control shall provide written notice to the applicant/
licensee at the address provided on the application stating:
         a.   The nature of the violation(s).
         b.   Establish a specific and reasonable period of time for correction
of the violation(s).
         c.   That any failure to comply with any notice issued in accordance
with the provisions of this title shall result in immediate denial, suspension,
or revocation as the case may be.
         d.   That an opportunity for an appeal of a final decision may be
filed with the City's Appeal Authority as provided for in section
5.02.160 of this Code.
      2.   No license shall be issued to any person whose license has been
revoked within the prior twelve (12) months. After the elapse of twelve (12)
months, a person may reapply for a license subject to this title.
   C.   Notice provided for under this chapter is deemed to have been properly
served upon certified mailing of the notice to the address in the application.
   D.   The appellate process shall be conducted in accordance with section
5.02.160 of this Code. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
CHAPTER 6A.08
CONDUCT AND PROHIBITED ACTS
SECTION:
6A.08.010: Cruelty To Animals
6A.08.020: Animals At-Large Prohibited
6A.08.030: Lost Or Stray Animals
6A.08.040: Places Prohibited To Animals
6A.08.050: Restraining Animals And Leash Law
6A.08.060: Restraining Animals On Unenclosed Premises
6A.08.070: Public Right-Of-Way And Property
6A.08.080: Dogs Attacking Domestic Animals
6A.08.090: Female Dogs Or Cats In Heat
6A.08.100: Communicable Diseases
6A.08.110: Disposal Of Dead Animals
6A.08.120: Animal Waste
6A.08.130: Nuisance Animals
6A.08.140: Abatement Of Nuisance Animals
6A.08.150: Possession Of A Potentially Dangerous Animal
6A.08.160: Possession Of A Dangerous Animal
6A.08.170: Impounding A Potentially Dangerous Or Dangerous Animal
6A.08.180: Wild Animals Prohibited
6A.08.190: Wild Unprotected Animal Abatement
6A.08.200: Abandonment Of Animals
6A.08.010: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
The provisions relating to cruelty to animals as specified in Utah Code
Annotated section 76-9-301, 1953, as amended, is hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by this reference. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.020: ANIMALS AT-LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any animal to run at-large. An animal that runs at
large by reason of some other person's actions or failure to act shall not be a
defense to prosecution under this section. The following exceptions apply to
the prohibition against animals running at large:
   A.   Animals may be at-large while participating in field trials and
obedience classes.
   B.   Animals properly controlled by a participant as part of a recognized
dog club.
   C.   Animals assisting their owner or trainer in legal hunting or in herding
of livestock.
   D.   Animals assisting a peace officer engaged in law enforcement duties, or
while being trained for the same.
   E.   Animals on the owner's private property so long as such animals are
under the direct and effective sound or gesture control and within sight of
owners or such individuals noted above, to assure that such animals do not
violate any provisions of this title.
   F.   Animals may be at large in specific areas and times authorized and
posted by Logan City. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.030: LOST OR STRAY ANIMALS:
Stray animals shall be governed by Utah Code section 11-46-103 or its successor
statute. It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep within the City any
lost or strayed animal. Whenever any animal shall be found which appears to be
lost or strayed, it shall be the duty of the finder to notify animal control
within seventy two (72) hours so that the rightful owner may be located or the
animal may be adopted if no owner claims the animal. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.040: PLACES PROHIBITED TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Food Establishments: It shall be unlawful for any person to take or
permit any animals, whether on a leash or in the arms of their owners, into any
establishment or place of business where food or food products are sold or
distributed, including, but not limited to, restaurants, grocery stores, meat
markets, and fruit or vegetable stores.
   B.   Schools: It is unlawful for any person to permit any dog or other
domesticated animal whether loose, or on a leash, or in arms, in or on any
school grounds except for purposes of instruction when authorized by a teacher
at the said school directly involved with the said instruction.
   C.   City Owned Land: It is unlawful for any person to take or permit any
dog or other domesticated animal whether loose, or on a leash or in arms, in
any City park, sports field or sports park, City cemetery, and City zoo, except
specific area authorized and posted by Logan City.
This section does not apply to service animals, government working dogs, or
similar animals used for educational programs, law enforcement exercises, or
authorized events. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.050: RESTRAINING ANIMALS AND LEASH LAW:
It is unlawful for any person owning or having the custody, possession, or
control of any animal to, either negligently or with specific intent,
improperly restrain or fence the animal in a manner that allows the animal to
escape or to run at-large. Except for specific areas and times authorized and
posted by Logan City, dogs are to be restrained on a proper leash at all times
on the public right-of-way and in public places. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.060: RESTRAINING ANIMALS ON UNENCLOSED PREMISES:
It is unlawful for any person to restrain, confine, pen, chain, stake, or
otherwise tether any animal on an unenclosed premises in a manner that allows
the animal to go beyond the property line unless permission is obtained from
the owner of the affected property or owner of the animal owns a legal property
interest in the affected property. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.070: PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY AND PROPERTY:
Except for specific areas and times authorized and posted by Logan City, no
animal is allowed to be kept on the public right- of-way or public property
without permission from the affected entity. Animals walked on the public
right-of-way or designated public property shall be handled on a leash at all
times. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.080: DOGS ATTACKING DOMESTIC ANIMALS:
Regardless of any provision in City ordinance that may state otherwise, any
person may kill a dog attacking domestic animals as provided in Utah Code
Annotated section 18-1-3, 1953, as amended, as adopted and incorporated herein
by this reference. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.090: FEMALE DOGS OR CATS IN HEAT:
An owner or person having charge, care, custody or control of any female dog or
female cat in heat shall, in addition to restraining such dog or cat from
running at-large, cause such dog or cat to be constantly confined in a building
or secure enclosure so as to prevent it from attracting by scent or otherwise
coming into contact with other dogs or cats and creating a nuisance. (Ord. 19-
06, 2019)
6A.08.100: COMMUNICABLE DISEASES:
No person shall knowingly harbor, keep or sell any animal afflicted with mange,
ringworm, distemper, parvovirus, kennel cough, or any other contagious disease,
unless such animal is being given adequate necessary treatment to control and
eliminate the disease. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.110: DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
Dead domestic animals shall be disposed in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
section 4-31-102, 1953, as amended, as adopted and incorporated herein by this
reference. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.120: ANIMAL WASTE:
   A.   The person having custody or control of an animal shall have in his
possession a bag or similar means of removing waste deposited by his animal and
be responsible for the immediate removal of any waste deposited by his animal
on any public right- of-way, public place, recreation area, or private property
other than that belonging to the owner of the animal.
   B.   A violation of this section shall be an infraction, the penalty for
which shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.130: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
All persons having custody of any animal or animals shall exercise proper care
and control over such animal or animals in order to prevent said animal or
animals from becoming a nuisance.
   A.   An animal shall be deemed to be a nuisance if such animal:
      1.   Causes damage to the property of anyone other than its owner.
      2.   Causes unreasonable odor.
      3.   Is in unsanitary condition in its being or habitat.
      4.   Is diseased.
      5.   Is in heat and uncontrolled.
      6.   Makes unreasonable barking, whining, howling, or disturbing noises.
      7.   Chases vehicles, people, or livestock.
      8.   Has previously been found at-large by animal control on three (3)
separate occasions within a 12-month period.
      9.   Has been declared a potentially dangerous animal or dangerous animal
and is found at-large or found in violation of any animal control restriction
placed on that animal.
      10.   Is a vicious animal.
      11.   Severely bites a human or animal, or kills another animal
unprovoked.
   B.   In addition to other remedies allowed by law, animal control may abate
a nuisance animal as provided by law. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.140: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE ANIMALS:
When it reasonably appears to the Director or his designee that any animal is a
nuisance as defined in this chapter, animal control may abate as follows:
   A.   Either relocate or euthanize the animal after obtaining written consent
from the owner.
   B.   If written consent from the animal owner cannot be readily obtained,
the Director may file a complaint with the local Justice Court seeking
abatement of the animal. The complaint shall:
      1.   Set forth the facts as determined by animal control.
      2.   Indicate that the owner is maintaining a nuisance animal.
      3.   State the nature of the nuisance.
      4.   State the recommended abatement measure sought by animal control.
   C.   Until such time as abatement can be taken voluntarily or ruled upon by
the court, the nuisance animal(s) may be impounded by animal control.
   D.   Abatement by relocation is not a viable option for animal(s) that bite
or are a serious threat, such as a vicious dog.
   E.   In the event the court determines that the animal is a nuisance, the
owner shall reimburse animal control for impoundment fees incurred during the
course of the proceeding. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.150: POSSESSION OF A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL:
Any person who owns or maintains a potentially dangerous animal shall use all
reasonable means at his or her disposal to restrict a potentially dangerous
animal from injuring any other person or animal. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.160: POSSESSION OF A DANGEROUS ANIMAL:
Any dangerous animal may only be kept confined indoors, or in a secure fenced
kennel-type enclosure that is locked.
   A.   The secure fenced kennel-type enclosure must be:
      1.   Designed to prevent the entry of children.
      2.   Designed to prevent the animal from escaping.
      3.   Have secure sides, top, and foundation that prevent burrowing or
digging under.
      4.   Provide protection from the elements for the animal.
   B.   When the dangerous animal is outside its enclosure, the animal must be
under immediate control of a responsible adult by means of a restraint device
and must also be muzzled. The muzzle shall be made in such a manner that it
will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with the animal's vision or
respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal. (Ord. 19-
06, 2019)
6A.08.170: IMPOUNDING A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL:
Animal control may:
   A.   Impound and take into immediate possession any potentially dangerous or
dangerous animal that is:
      1.   Not maintained as required in this chapter.
      2.   Outside an enclosure and not properly restrained by a device or not
properly muzzled if a dangerous animal.
   B.   Any owner of any potentially dangerous or dangerous animal found at-
large or who fails to comply with this chapter is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.180: WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to import, sell, offer for sale, barter,
give away, keep or purchase any wild animal as defined in this title.
   A.   This section does not apply to the following facilities:
      1.   Animal shelters.
      2.   Zoological parks.
      3.   Veterinarian hospitals.
      4.   Bona fide research facility.
      5.   Fairgrounds or a circus.
      6.   Research facility for educational or scientific purposes.
   B.   Every facility controlling or maintaining any wild animal shall:
      1.   Maintain and keep each wild animal in a manner and by means of
protective devices that prevent such animals from escaping or presenting any
harm to the public or persons at the facility.
      2.   Comply with applicable State and Federal regulations for handling,
maintenance, and vaccinations as directed for each species.
      3.   Be kept under confinement on the premises and not run at- large.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing restrictions, this section does not apply
to persons or entities:
      1.   Who have sought and received approval by the City for raising
animals for their pelts and for legal commercial purposes consistent with law.
      2.   Who are authorized by State or Federal law, regulation or rule to
import, export, sell, offer for sale, barter, give away, keep or purchase any
wild animal. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.190: WILD UNPROTECTED ANIMAL ABATEMENT:
Wild unprotected animals may be abated in a safe and humane manner under the
direction or with the assistance of the appropriate State or Federal agencies.
(Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.08.200: ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon an animal by:
   A.   Placing an animal in an unsafe or dangerous environment where the
animal is separated from basic needs such as food, water, shelter, or necessary
medical attention for a period of longer than twenty four (24) hours;
   B.   Intentionally depositing, leaving, or dropping off any live animal in a
public or private place;
   C.   Failing to reclaim an animal within forty eight (48) hours of the time
agreed upon with a kennel, grooming service, or veterinary hospital;
   D.   Failing to reclaim and/or relinquish ownership of an animal forty eight
(48) hours beyond the time agreed upon with an animal shelter; or
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any owner to abandon an animal and report the
animal to any authority as stray with the intention of turning over custody of
the animal. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
CHAPTER 6A.10
IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
6A.10.010: Impoundment Authorized
6A.10.020: Shelter Record Keeping Requirements
6A.10.030: Redemption Requirements
6A.10.040: Terms Of Impoundment, Destruction, And Disposal Of Animals
6A.10.050: Declaration And Disposal Of Vicious Animals
6A.10.060: Microchipping Of Animals
6A.10.010: IMPOUNDMENT AUTHORIZED:
Animal control may place animals which are taken into custody in a designated
animal shelter or approved sheltering facilities. Animals may be taken into
custody and impounded if:
   A.   The animal is being kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of
City ordinance or State law.
   B.   The animal is stray or running at-large.
   C.   Any dog that is not properly licensed as required by this title.
   D.   Any dog that is not rabies vaccinated or believed to not be rabies
vaccinated.
   E.   Any animal that is sick, diseased, or injured.
   F.   The animal is abandoned or is neglected to the point that the health
and safety of the animal is at risk if it is not immediately placed into
protective custody.
   G.   Any animal needing to be held for quarantine.
   H.   Any animal that is pending a determination of being potentially
dangerous or dangerous animal as provided by this title.
   I.   Any animal that is determined to be a nuisance animal.
   J.   Any animal in the custody of any person or persons who are being
arrested or detained by any law enforcement officer.
   K.   Any animal adopted/rescued from the animal shelter being kept or
maintained contrary to the provisions of the adoption/rescue contract. (Ord.
19-06, 2019)
6A.10.020: SHELTER RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENTS:
The animal shelter shall keep a record of each animal impounded as provided by
law and the rules and regulations adopted by the Director. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.10.030: REDEMPTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The owner of any impounded animal or his authorized representative may
redeem such animal upon payment of the required fees and before disposition in
accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed by the animal shelter.
   B.   In the case of an animal over the age of four (4) months which has not
been licensed and/or vaccinated for rabies as required by this title, such
licensing and/or vaccination shall be done and paid for by the owner or keeper
within ten (10) days of the date the animal is released. The owner or keeper
shall provide animal control with proof of licensing and/or vaccination within
ten (10) days of the date the animal is released.
   C.   Redemption fees are calculated to include impound costs, daily board
charge, any veterinary costs incurred during the impound period, license and
vaccination costs where needed, microchipping, transportation costs, any other
reasonable expenses incurred as part of the impound of an animal, and any
reasonable restitution for property damage caused by the animal or that occurs
as a result of the impoundment. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.10.040: TERMS OF IMPOUNDMENT, DESTRUCTION, AND DISPOSAL OF ANIMALS:
The Director is delegated authority to administer the terms of impoundment
substantially as follows, and subject to other rules and regulations of the
animal shelter:
   A.   In accordance with Utah Code section 11-46-103, as amended, an animal
impounded shall be held for a minimum of five (5) business days before further
disposition.
      1.   Reasonable effort shall be made to notify the owner of any animal
wearing a license or other identification. Notice shall be deemed given when
sent to the last known address of the listed owner.
      2.   Any animal voluntarily relinquished to the animal control facility
by the owner thereof for destruction or other disposition need not be kept for
the minimum holding period before release or other disposition as herein
provided.
   B.   All animals, except those quarantined or confined by court order, or
those subject to Utah Code section 4-25-101 et seq., as amended, which are held
longer than the minimum impound period, and all animals voluntarily
relinquished to the impound facility, may be destroyed or disposed of at the
order of the Director. Disposition may include being placed for adoption,
relinquished to an approved animal welfare organization, rescued by other
resources approved by the Director or designee, euthanized, or relinquished for
educational purposes as provided by law.
   C.   Healthy dogs, cats, and small pets may be adopted in compliance with
the applicable adoption policy established by the Director upon payment of any
adoption fee.
   D.   Any healthy dog or cat placed into the adoption program may be adopted
by a qualified applicant after completion of the adoption application and after
agreeing to comply with the adoption contract. Any person adopting a dog or cat
from the facility shall have the animal spayed or neutered by a licensed
veterinarian within a reasonable time as determined by the Director or designee
based on the age and health of the animal. Failure to provide written
verification by a licensed veterinarian within the required time shall be
unlawful. No person adopting a dog or cat shall allow the adopted animal to be
used for any experimental or research purpose or for breeding.
   E.   An impounded animal that is diseased, overtly frail, or severely
injured, or is suspected of being diseased may be destroyed or released to the
care of a licensed veterinarian with or without the consent of the owner and
regardless of the time limitation established herein.
   F.   In special circumstances, an animal control officer may destroy an
animal, upon request of the owner, without transporting the animal to
contracted facilities. Animal control may require reimbursement for specialized
euthanasia or carcass disposal costs incurred. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.10.050: DECLARATION AND DISPOSAL OF VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   If an animal control officer finds an animal to be a vicious animal,
the officer may immediately:
      1.   Take possession and impound the animal.
      2.   Place the animal in a proper quarantine holding facility pending
determination.
      3.   Seek written consent of the animal's owner to destroy the animal in
a humane manner.
      4.   If the animal owner's consent cannot be readily obtained, seek a
court order to destroy the animal in a humane manner.
   B.   In the event the court determines that the animal is a vicious animal,
the owner shall pay the cost of all impoundments fees, disposal fees, or any
other fees that may have been incurred. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.10.060: MICROCHIPPING OF ANIMALS:
Any animal adopted, rescued, or reclaimed from the animal shelter shall be
implanted with an identification chip prior to leaving the shelter. The person/
organization adopting/rescuing or reclaiming the animal shall be responsible
for the related fees. This fee shall be determined by resolution by the Logan
City Council. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
CHAPTER 6A.12
RABIES CONTROL AND ANIMAL BITES
SECTION:
6A.12.010: Animal Rabies Vaccination Requirements
6A.12.020: Vaccination Certification And Tags
6A.12.030: Impoundments Of Animals Without Valid Vaccination Tags
6A.12.040: Rabid Animal Report
6A.12.050: Quarantine And Disposition Of Biting Or Rabid Animal
6A.12.060: Duty To Report Animal Bite
6A.12.010: ANIMAL RABIES VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS:
All dogs, cats, and other animals susceptible to rabies for which a Federally
approved vaccine is available shall be vaccinated at four (4) months of age and
again at fifteen (15) months of age by a licensed veterinarian or rabies
clinic. Every dog shall be re- vaccinated every twenty four (24) and/or thirty
six (36) months, depending on the type of vaccination, and every cat re-
vaccinated every thirty six (36) months thereafter. Any unvaccinated dog or cat
over four (4) months of age adopted or brought into the jurisdiction must be
vaccinated. Vaccination protection must be maintained on dogs, cats, and other
animals susceptible to rabies. Evidence of vaccination is a condition for
issuance of a dog license. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.12.020: VACCINATION CERTIFICATION AND TAGS:
   A.   A veterinarian or rabies clinic is to provide a certificate of rabies
vaccination for each animal vaccinated which includes:
      1.   Owner's name and address.
      2.   Description of the animal.
      3.   Date of vaccination.
      4.   Rabies vaccination tag number.
      5.   Type of vaccine administered.
      6.   Manufacture's serial number of vaccine.
   B.   A copy of the certificate shall be provided to the owner of the
vaccinated animal with a copy retained by the issuing veterinarian or rabies
clinic for the period that the vaccination is current.
   C.   A metal or durable plastic rabies vaccination tag, serially numbered,
shall be securely attached to the collar or harness of the vaccinated animal.
An animal not wearing such a tag is presumed to be unvaccinated and subject to
impoundment. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.12.030: IMPOUNDMENTS OF ANIMALS WITHOUT VALID VACCINATION TAGS:
   A.   Any vaccinated animal impounded because of a lack of a rabies
vaccination tag may be reclaimed by its owner upon furnishing proof of a rabies
vaccination and payment of impoundment fees.
   B.   Any unvaccinated animal may be reclaimed prior to disposal by payment
of impound fees and by signing a commitment to obtain rabies vaccination within
fourteen (14) days of the release of the animal.
   C.   Any animal not reclaimed within the prescribed period of time may be
disposed of as provided in section
6A.10.040 of this title. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.12.040: RABID ANIMAL REPORT:
Any person having information of an animal known to have been exposed to
rabies, suspected of having rabies, or an animal or person bitten by such a
suspect animal shall immediately notify animal control or Health Department of
the same. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.12.050: QUARANTINE AND DISPOSITION OF BITING OR RABID ANIMAL:
   A.   The owner or keeper of any animal that bites a human or another animal
and causes an open wound, that has rabies, that shows signs of having rabies,
or an animal bitten by another animal that may have rabies or that may have
been exposed to rabies shall immediately confine the animal in a secure place
and contact animal control.
   B.   Animal control may immediately impound and quarantine the suspect
animal for a period of not less than ten (10) days. The owner of the animal is
responsible for the quarantine costs.
   C.   Quarantine shall occur at a veterinary hospital or animal shelter if
the animal is not current on rabies vaccinations, is not licensed as required
in section
6A.06.040 of this title, has been deemed a dangerous animal, or at the owner's
request. An animal requiring quarantine may be home quarantined if the animal
is current on rabies vaccination and is currently licensed as required. Any
person who has custody of an animal under home quarantine shall immediately
notify the animal shelter if the animal shows any signs of sickness or abnormal
behavior, or if the animal escapes confinement. It is unlawful for any person
who has custody of a quarantined animal to fail or refuse to allow a health
official or animal control officer to inspect or examine the animal during the
period of quarantine. If the animal dies within ten (10) days from the date of
the bite, the person having custody shall immediately notify animal control or
the Health Department.
   D.   If, at the end of ten-day period, an investigating officer examines the
animal and finds no sign of rabies, the animal may be released to the owner or
if a stray be disposed of as provided in section
6A.10.040 of this title.
   E.   Handling of an unvaccinated animal that may have been exposed to rabies
shall be as follows:
      1.   Any exposed animal shall be immediately destroyed with consent of
the owner.
      2.   If the owner is unwilling to destroy the bitten or exposed animal,
the animal shall be immediately isolated and quarantined for six (6) months
under veterinary supervision, the cost of such confinement is to be paid by the
owner.
      3.   A quarantined animal may be released when declared free of rabies by
a licensed veterinarian after the elapse of a minimum six-month quarantine. If
the quarantined animal is not free of rabies following the six-month quarantine
period, the animal shall be destroyed.
   F.   Handling of a vaccinated animal that may have been exposed to rabies
shall be as follows:
      1.   If the bitten or exposed animal is currently vaccinated, as
prescribed herein, the animal shall be re-vaccinated within twenty four (24)
hours and quarantined for a period of thirty (30) days following re-
vaccination; or
      2.   If the animal is not re-vaccinated within twenty four (24) hours,
the animal shall be isolated and quarantined under veterinary supervision for
six (6) months.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any such animal from the
place of quarantine except under the direction of the Director. (Ord. 19-06,
2019)
6A.12.060: DUTY TO REPORT ANIMAL BITE:
   A.   Any person having knowledge of any animal bite on a person or other
animal shall immediately report the incident to animal control.
   B.   To the extent this section does not conflict with HIPAA, a physician,
veterinarian, or other medical personnel who renders treatment to a person
relating to an animal bite shall immediately report the bite to animal control.
Information shall include contact information of the person or animal that was
bitten and information on the animal that inflicted the bite, along with any
other facts that may assist animal control.
   C.   Any person treating an animal bitten, injured, or mauled by another
animal shall report the incident to animal control within twenty four (24)
hours. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
CHAPTER 6A.14
TRAPS AND TRAPPING
SECTION:
6A.14.010: Definitions
6A.14.020: Trapping Prohibited
6A.14.030: Violation
6A.14.040: Exception
6A.14.010: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set
out in this section:
SET: Means to caulk, open or put a trap in such a condition that it would clamp
closed when any object touches a triggering device or to place a trap which has
been opened or fixed so that it would close upon the triggering device being
touched wherein a person, bird or animal could become caught therein.
SNARE: Means any apparatus consisting of a noose for catching part of a body
which constricts the airway of any person, bird or mammal.
TRAP: Means a clamp like apparatus which is utilized to catch animals, objects,
persons or birds when, after being set and the triggering device being
activated, clamp like jaws are designed to come together with force as to clamp
upon the animal, object, person or bird activating the triggering device. (Ord.
19-06, 2019)
6A.14.020: TRAPPING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to set a trap or snare within the limits of Logan
City. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.14.030: VIOLATION:
   A.   Every person who sets a trap or snare within the limits of Logan City
is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
   B.   Each trap or snare is an individual and separate offense. (Ord. 19-06,
2019)
6A.14.040: EXCEPTION:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to those persons who are
engaged in the trapping of unprotected rodents, i.e., mice, rats, muskrat, on
their owned or leased property.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the Logan City
Division of Animal Control or their agents who are charged with the
responsibility of animal control or to State or Federal government officers or
their agents who are charged with wildlife management; provided, that those
agencies must make notification to the Division of Animal Control when these
devices are necessary in the performance of their duty and of the location of
these devices. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
CHAPTER 6A.16
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
6A.16.010: Authority Of Officers
6A.16.020: Right Of Entry For Enforcement And/Or Investigation
6A.16.030: Penalties
6A.16.010: AUTHORITY OF OFFICERS:
In the performance of their duties, any animal control officer or law
enforcement officer is hereby vested with the power and authority set forth in
this title. An animal control officer, as a condition of the issuance of any
license (including a business license), may enter and inspect the premises of
any pet shop, animal boarding establishment, animal grooming establishment, or
other establishment which has animals in the enforcement of this title. (Ord.
19-06, 2019)
6A.16.020: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR ENFORCEMENT AND/OR INVESTIGATION:
In the enforcement of this title and as otherwise provided by law, all law
enforcement officers and animal control officials are authorized to enter on
the premises of any person or entity, take possession of any vicious animal,
animal at large, or animal that has committed an act prohibited by this title
when in fresh pursuit of such animal at the time animal goes onto private
property. (Ord. 19-06, 2019)
6A.16.030: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations Not Pertaining To A Person's Pet: Unless otherwise stated,
any person violating any provision of this title shall be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor and shall be punished within the confines of that class as
prescribed by laws. Each day a violation continues shall constitute as a
separate offense.
   B.   Violations Pertaining To A Person's Pet: If the violation of this title
involves a person's pet as defined by Utah Code Ann. § 4-12-102, the person
shall be guilty of an infraction.
   C.   Penalties For Multiple Offenses Pertaining To Person's Pet: If the
person has three (3) previous violations of this title involving that person's
pet within the past twelve (12) months, then the person shall be guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor. A person may not be cited for more than one infraction
within a 14-day time period for a violation pertaining to a person's pet.
   D.   Penalties For Violations That Are A Nuisance And Threaten Health And
Safety Of Individual Or Public: If the violation of this title involves a
nuisance as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 78B-6-1101(1) and threatens the health,
safety, or welfare of the individual or an identifiable third party, then the
person shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Such offenses include
violations of section
6A.08.020,
6A.08.080,
6A.08.130, 6A.080.160 and 6A.080.180.
(Ord. 24-11, 2024: Ord. 19-06, 2019)
TITLE 7
RESERVED
 
TITLE 8
HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 8.04
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
Article I. General Provisions
8.04.010: International Fire Code Adopted
8.04.015: Bureau Of Fire Prevention Established; Duties
8.04.017: Definitions
8.04.018: Fireworks And Other Ignition Source Restrictions
Article II. Storage Of Flammable Materials; Burning
8.04.020: Storage Of Flammable Or Combustible Liquids In Outside Aboveground
Tanks; Where Prohibited And Where Permitted
8.04.030: Storage Of Compressed Natural Gas In Aboveground Containers
8.04.040: Burning At Construction Sites
8.04.045: Recreational Fires; When Prohibited
8.04.050: Violation; Penalty
Article III. Administration
8.04.070: Permits; Appeals
8.04.080: Permits; Officers To Determine When Required
8.04.090: Damages; Written Reports
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
8.04.010: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire, hazardous materials or explosion, the
city adopts the 2012 edition of the international fire code.
      1.   The following appendices from the 2012 edition of the international
fire code are adopted by the city as guidelines only:
         a.   Appendix A - board of appeals.
         b.   Appendix B - fire flow requirements.
         c.   Appendix C - fire hydrant locations and distributions.
         d.   Appendix D - fire department access roads.
         e.   Appendix E - hazardous categories.
         f.   Appendix F - hazard ranking.
         g.   Appendix G - cryogenic fluids; weights and volume equivalents.
   B.   The foregoing fire code is published by the International Code Council,
being particularly the 2012 edition, except such portions which are
specifically excepted by this section. One copy shall be filed in the office of
the city recorder, one copy shall be filed in the city library and one copy
shall be filed at the fire department for examination by the public and the
same are adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and
from the effective date hereof, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the limits of the city. (Ord. 13-50, 2013)
8.04.015: BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION ESTABLISHED; DUTIES:
   A.   The international fire code shall be enforced by the bureau of fire
prevention in the fire department of the city which is established and which
shall be operated under the supervision of the chief of the fire department.
   B.   The chief in charge of the bureau of fire prevention shall be appointed
by the mayor on the basis of examination to determine his or her
qualifications.
   C.   The chief of the fire department may detail such members of the fire
department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The chief of
the fire department shall recommend to the mayor the employment of technical
inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall be selected through an
examination to determine their fitness for the position. The examination shall
be open to members and nonmembers of the fire department, and appointments made
after examination shall be for an indefinite term with removal only for cause.
(Ord. 03-12 § 1, 2003: prior code § 6-7-2)
8.04.017: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever the following terms are used in the international fire code, they
shall have the meanings set out in this section:
CORPORATION COUNSEL: The attorney for the city.
JURISDICTION: The city.
WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE AREA: The line, area, or zone where structures or
other human development meet or intermingle with undeveloped wildland or land
being used for an agricultural purpose. (Ord. 13-50, 2013)
8.04.018: FIREWORKS AND OTHER IGNITION SOURCE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   When hazardous environmental conditions necessitate controlled use of
any ignition source, including fireworks, lighters, matches, sky lanterns, and
smoking materials, a fire code official may issue an order prohibiting or
restricting the use of any ignition source in mountainous, brush covered, or
forest covered areas or the wildland urban interface area.
   B.   An order issued under this section shall be filed with the city
recorder's office and published in a manner reasonably calculated to give
notice to the general public. The order shall describe the prohibitions or
restrictions and the areas in which they are applicable. (Ord. 13-50, 2013)
ARTICLE II. STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS; BURNING
8.04.020: STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND
TANKS; WHERE PROHIBITED AND WHERE PERMITTED:
The following restrictions apply to hazardous materials stored or used in Logan
City:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions apply to this article:
      COMMERCIAL AREA: Refers to any building or structure that is used to sell
products, either wholesale or retail.
      INDUSTRIAL AREAS, COMMERCIAL AREAS AND RESIDENTIAL AREAS: Refer to those
areas that are zoned, according to the Logan City zoning ordinances, as
industrial, residential and/or commercial zones.
   B.   Limits Established: The limits referred to in chapter 34, flammable and
combustible liquids, of the international fire code, in which the storage of
flammable or combustible liquids is restricted, are established as follows:
      1.   No flammable or combustible liquids shall be stored in aboveground
storage tanks in residential areas with the following exceptions:
Aboveground vaulted tanks or double walled tanks may be allowed in a
residential area when required for emergency backup fuel for public utility
equipment. All tanks must be installed and meet all requirements of chapter 34,
international fire code and be approved by the chief of the fire department.
      2.   No flammable or combustible liquids shall be stored in aboveground
storage tanks in industrial and commercial areas unless the container thereof
and the distance from any building complies with the standards and conditions
as set forth in the international fire code, and unless in addition the
aboveground tank has been approved after application for and permit from the
chief of the fire department.
   C.   Storage Belowground Prohibited; Exception: No flammable or combustible
liquids shall be stored in belowground flammable liquid tanks in any
residential area except for home heating fuel.
   D.   New Bulk Plants: The limits referred to in chapter 34, section 3406, of
the international fire code, in which new bulk plants for flammable or
combustible liquids are prohibited, are established as follows: no such plant
shall be located in an area which is closer than three hundred feet (300') from
any residential dwelling unit or a central commercial establishment primarily
retail in character, nor shall such a plant be established in any zone where
such residential or commercial establishments are permitted uses.
   E.   Referenced Limits: The limits referred to in chapter 38 of the
International Fire Code, in which storage of liquefied petroleum gas is
restricted, are established as follows:
      1.   No liquid petroleum gas shall be stored in aboveground storage tanks
in residential areas.
      2.   No liquid petroleum gas shall be stored in aboveground storage tanks
in commercial or industrial districts unless the container thereof and the
distance from the building comply with the standards and conditions as set
forth in the International Fire Code, and unless in addition the aboveground
tank has been approved after the application for and permit from the Chief of
the Fire Department. (Ord. 03-12 § 1, 2003: Ord. 96-14 § 2, 1996: Ord. 90-32 §
1, 1990: Prior Code § 6-7-4)
8.04.030: STORAGE OF COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS IN ABOVEGROUND CONTAINERS:
The limits referred to in chapters 22 and 30 of the International Fire Code, in
which the storage of compressed natural gas storage is prohibited, are
established as follows:
   A.   No compressed natural gas shall be stored in residential areas without
the written approval after application for and written permit from the Fire
Chief.
   B.   No compressed natural gas shall be stored in commercial and/or
mercantile areas without the written approval after application for and written
permit from the Chief of the Fire Department. (Ord. 03-12 § 1, 2003: Ord. 96-14
§ 2, 1996)
8.04.040: BURNING AT CONSTRUCTION SITES:
The limits referred to in section 307 of the International Fire Code, in which
open burning is prohibited, are established as follows:
   A.   No contractor, subcontractor, or any employee or agent thereof shall
set fire to any combustible materials on a building construction site, or set
fire to combustible materials from a building construction site at any other
outdoor location within Logan City.
   B.   All contractors shall be strictly liable, pursuant to the provisions of
section
8.04.050 of this chapter, for the acts of their subcontractors, employees or
agents that violate the provisions herein.
   C.   All subcontractors shall be strictly liable, pursuant to the provisions
of section
8.04.050 of this chapter, for the acts of their employees that are in violation
of the provisions herein.
   D.   Any person shall be liable, pursuant to the provisions of section
8.04.050 of this chapter, for their own acts in violation of the provisions
herein. (Ord. 03-12 § 1, 2003: Ord. 96-14 § 2, 1996)
8.04.045: RECREATIONAL FIRES; WHEN PROHIBITED:
   A.   Recreational fires, as defined by the International Fire Code and
adopted by this chapter, are prohibited when the Utah Clearing Index for
Airshed #4 is below five hundred (500) or when the Utah Division of Air Quality
air quality index (AQI) is other than "Good" for Cache County.
   B.   A property owner may not have or allow on their property more than two
(2) recreational fires per week. (Ord. 17-24, 2017)
8.04.050: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the
provisions of the International Fire Code as adopted and amended herein or
fails to comply herewith, or who violates or fails to comply with any order
made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified after an appeal or
by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the required time, shall severally
for each and every such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of
a Class B misdemeanor. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall
be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 03-12 § 1,
2003: Ord. 96-14 § 2, 1996)
ARTICLE III. ADMINISTRATION
8.04.070: PERMITS; APPEALS:
Whenever the chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit
applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply
or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief to
the mayor within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior code § 6-7-7)
8.04.080: PERMITS; OFFICERS TO DETERMINE WHEN REQUIRED:
The mayor, the chief and the chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall act
as a committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an
opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which
shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in this code. The
chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall post such list in a conspicuous
place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(Prior code § 6-7-8)
8.04.090: DAMAGES; WRITTEN REPORTS:
Every fire insurance company, agent or representative doing business in the
city shall, before paying any loss or damage caused by fire to property within
the corporate limits of the city, first make written report to the fire chief
stating specifically the amount of damage which such insurance company, agent
or representative has assessed as the loss or damage to the building or
structure on account of the fire, and shall also state the estimated amounts
necessary to repair such building or structure, and shall also give the cause
of the fire if known. (Prior code § 6-7-11)
CHAPTER 8.08
FIREWORKS
(Rep. by Ord. 12-32, 2012)
CHAPTER 8.12
MEAT INSPECTION
SECTION:
8.12.010: Required
8.12.010: REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any butcher, grocer, restaurant operator or other meat
handler in the corporate limits of the city to have in his possession any meat
which has not been inspected and approved for human consumption by federal or
state agencies. (Prior code § 10-2-1)
CHAPTER 8.16
SOUND AND VIBRATION
SECTION:
Article I. Short Title
8.16.100: Title
Article II. Declaration Of Findings And Policy; Scope
8.16.200: Declaration Of Findings And Policy
8.16.210: Scope
Article III. Definitions
8.16.300: Terms Defined
Article IV. Prohibited Acts
8.16.400: Noise Disturbances; Prohibited
8.16.410: Specific Prohibitions
8.16.412: Radios, Television Sets, Musical Instruments And Similar Devices
8.16.414: Loudspeakers/Public Address Systems
8.16.416: Street Sales
8.16.418: Animals And Birds
8.16.420: Loading And Unloading
8.16.422: Construction
8.16.424: Vehicle Or Motorboat Repairs And Testing
8.16.426: Places Of Public Entertainment
8.16.428: Explosives, Firearms, And Similar Devices
8.16.430: Powered Model Vehicles
8.16.432: Vibration
8.16.434: Stationary Nonemergency Signaling Devices
8.16.436: Emergency Signaling Devices
8.16.438: Noise Sensitive Zones
8.16.440: Domestic Power Tools
Article V. Exceptions And Variances
8.16.500: Emergency Exception
8.16.510: Special Variances
Article VI. Sound Levels By Receiving Land Zone
8.16.600: Maximum Permissible Sound Levels By Receiving Land Zone
8.16.610: Correction For Character Of Sound
8.16.620: Exemptions
Article VII. Motor Vehicle Maximum Sound Levels
8.16.700: Motor Vehicles And Motorcycles On Public Rights Of Way
8.16.710: Adequate Mufflers Or Sound Dissipative Devices
8.16.720: Motor Vehicle Horns And Signaling Devices
8.16.730: Recreation Motorized Vehicles Operating Off Public Rights Of Way
8.16.740: Dynamic Braking Device Prohibited Where Posted
Article VIII. Enforcement
8.16.800: Penalties
8.16.810: Abatement Orders
ARTICLE I. SHORT TITLE
8.16.100: TITLE:
This ordinance may be cited as the NOISE CONTROL ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
LOGAN. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
ARTICLE II. DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND POLICY; SCOPE
8.16.200: DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND POLICY:
   A.   Excessive sound and vibration are a serious hazard to the public health
and welfare, safety, and the quality of life; and
   B.   A substantial body of science and technology exists by which excessive
sound and vibration may be substantially abated; and
   C.   The people have a right to and should be ensured an environment free
from excessive sound and vibration that may jeopardize their health or welfare
or safety or degrade the quality of life; and
   D.   It is the policy of the city to prevent excessive sound and vibration
which may jeopardize the health and welfare or safety of its citizens or
degrade the quality of life. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.210: SCOPE:
This chapter shall apply to the control of all sound and vibration originating
within the limits of the city. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
ARTICLE III. DEFINITIONS
8.16.300: TERMS DEFINED:
All terminology used in this chapter, not defined below, shall be in
conformance with applicable publications of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL: The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on a
sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated dB(A) or dBA.
COMMERCIAL AREA: Any area zoned as a C1, C2, C3, or C4 district in the zoning
ordinance.
CONSTRUCTION: Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration, or similar action, but excluding demolition, for or of public or
private rights of way, structures, utilities or similar property.
DECIBEL (dB): A unit for measuring the volume of a sound, equal to twenty (20)
times the logarithm to the base-10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is twenty (20) micropascals.
DEMOLITION: Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of structures,
utilities, public or private right of way surfaces, or similar property.
DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE (Commonly Referred To As JACOB'S BRAKE): A device used
primarily on diesel trucks to release the compression generated by the engine
for the purpose of braking without the use of wheel brakes.
EMERGENCY: Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent
physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
EMERGENCY WORK: Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating
the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency.
IMPULSIVE SOUND: Sound of short duration, usually less than one second, with an
abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of sources of impulsive sound include
explosions, drop forge impacts, and the discharge of firearms.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is propelled or drawn on land by a motor, such
as, but not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck trailers, semitrailers,
campers, go-carts, snowmobiles, amphibious craft on land, dune buggies, or
racing vehicles, but not including motorcycles.
MOTORBOAT: Any vessel which operates on water and which is propelled by a
motor, including, but not limited to, boats, barges, amphibious craft, waterski
towing devices and hovercraft.
MOTORCYCLE: An unenclosed motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the
operator and two (2) or three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, including,
but not limited to, motor scooters and minibikes.
MUFFLER OR SOUND DISSIPATIVE DEVICE: A device for abating the sound of escaping
gases of an internal combustion engine.
NOISE: Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends to
cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any sound which:
   A.   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals; or
   B.   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities; or
   C.   Endangers or injures personal or real property.
NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE: Any area designated to certain noise sensitive activities
for the purpose of ensuring exceptional quiet. Noise sensitive activities
include, but are not limited to, operations of schools, libraries, open to the
public, churches, courts, hospitals and nursing homes.
PERSON: Any individual, association, partnership, corporation, or entity,
public or private in nature (and includes any officer, employee, department,
agency or instrumentality of a state or any political subdivision of a state).
POWERED MODEL VEHICLE: Any self-propelled airborne, waterborne, or landborne
plane, vessel, or vehicle, which is not designed to carry persons, including,
but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car, or rocket.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk or alley
or similar place which is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
PUBLIC SPACE: Any real property or structures thereon which are owned or
controlled by a governmental entity.
PURE TONE: Any sound which can be distinctly heard as a single pitch or a set
of single pitches. For the purposes of this chapter, a pure tone shall exist if
the one-third (1/3) octave band sound pressure level in the band with the tone
exceeds the arithmetic average of the sound pressure levels of the two (2)
contiguous one-third (1/3) octave bands by five (5) dB for center frequencies
of five hundred (500) Hz and above and by eight (8) dB for center frequencies
between one hundred sixty (160) and four hundred (400) Hz and by fifteen (15)
dB for center frequencies less than or equal to one hundred twenty five (125)
Hz.
RMS SOUND PRESSURE: The square root of the time averaged square of the sound
pressure, denoted Prms.
REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY: An imaginary line along the ground surface, and its
vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from
that owned by another person, but not including intrabuilding real property
divisions.
RESIDENTIAL AREA: Any area zoned as an R1, R1A, R2, R2A, MH, R3 or R4 district
in the zoning ordinance.
SOUND: An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity or
other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that causes
compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound may
include any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity and
frequency.
SOUND LEVEL: The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of a sound
level meter and frequency weighting network, such as A, B, or C as specified in
American National Standards Institute specifications for sound level meters
(ANSI S1.4-1985, or the latest approved revision thereof). If the frequency
weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument which includes at least a microphone,
amplifier, output meter, and weighting networks used to measure sound pressure
levels.
SOUND PRESSURE: The instantaneous difference between the actual pressure and
the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space, as produced by
sound energy.
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: Twenty (20) times the logarithm to the base-10 of the
ratio of the RMS sound pressure to the reference pressure of twenty (20)
micropascals (20x10-6 N/m2). The sound pressure level is denoted Lp or SPL and
is expressed in decibels.
VIBRATION: An oscillatory motion of solid bodies of deterministic or random
nature described by displacement, velocity, or acceleration with respect to a
given reference point.
WEEKDAY: Any day Monday through Friday which is not a legal holiday. (Ord. 13-
09, 2013)
ARTICLE IV. PROHIBITED ACTS
8.16.400: NOISE DISTURBANCES; PROHIBITED:
No person shall unreasonably make, continue, or cause to be made or continued,
any noise disturbance. Noncommercial public speaking and public assembly
activities conducted on any public space or public right of way shall be exempt
from the operation of this section. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.410: SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS:
The acts set out in sections
8.16.412 through
8.16.440 of this article, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.412: RADIOS, TELEVISION SETS, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND SIMILAR DEVICES:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any
radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier, or
similar device which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound:
   A.   Between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. the following day in such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across
a real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone;
   B.   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance at fifty feet (50')
from such device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public right of
way or public space;
   C.   This section shall not apply to noncommercial spoken language covered
under section
8.16.414 of this article. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.414: LOUDSPEAKERS/PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEMS:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter:
   A.   Using or operating for any noncommercial purpose any loudspeaker,
public address system, or similar device between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. the following day, such that the sound
therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary or within a noise sensitive zone.
   B.   Using or operating for any commercial purpose any loudspeaker, public
address system, or similar device: 1) such that the sound therefrom creates a
noise disturbance across a real property boundary or within a noise sensitive
zone; or 2) between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. the following day on a public right of way or public space. (Ord. 91-
19, 1991)
8.16.416: STREET SALES:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: Offering for sale or selling anything by shouting or outcry
within any residential area of the city, except by permit issued by the mayor
according to criteria set forth in section
8.16.510 of this chapter. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.418: ANIMALS AND BIRDS:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: Owning, possessing or harboring any animal or bird which
frequently or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks, or makes
other sounds which create a noise disturbance across a residential real
property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone. This provision shall not
apply to public zoos. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.420: LOADING AND UNLOADING:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other handling of boxes,
crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans, or similar objects
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the
following day in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across
residential real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone.
8.16.422: CONSTRUCTION:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: Operating or permitting the operation of any tools or equipment
used in construction, drilling, or demolition work:
   A.   Between the hours of nine thirty o'clock (9:30) P.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. the following day on weekdays or at any time on Sundays or
holidays, such that the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a
residential real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone, except for
emergency work of public service utilities or by special variance issued
pursuant to section
8.16.510 of this chapter.
   B.   This section shall not apply to the use of domestic power tools subject
to section
8.16.440 of this article. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.424: VEHICLE OR MOTORBOAT REPAIRS AND TESTING:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: Repairing, rebuilding, modifying or testing any motor vehicle,
motorcycle or motorboat within any residential area in such a manner as to
cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary or within
a noise sensitive zone between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.426: PLACES OF PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any
radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier or
similar device which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound in any place of
public entertainment at a sound level greater than ninety five (95) dBA as read
by the slow response on a sound level meter at any point that is normally
occupied by a customer, unless a conspicuous and legible sign is located
outside such place, near each public entrance, stating "WARNING:   SOUND LEVELS
WITHIN MAY CAUSE PERMANENT HEARING IMPAIRMENT". (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.428: EXPLOSIVES, FIREARMS, AND SIMILAR DEVICES:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: The use or firing of explosives, firearms, or similar devices
which create impulsive sound so as to cause a noise disturbance across a real
property boundary or on a public space or right of way, without first obtaining
a special variance issued pursuant to section
8.16.510 of this chapter. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.430: POWERED MODEL VEHICLES:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: Operating or permitting the operation of powered model vehicles
so as to create a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary, in a public space or within a noise sensitive zone between the hours
of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day.
Maximum sound levels in a public space during the permitted period of operation
shall conform to those set forth for residential land use in table I, section
8.16.600 of this chapter. Maximum sound levels for residential property and
noise sensitive zones, during the permitted period of operation, shall be
governed by section
8.16.600 of this chapter and section
8.16.438 of this article, respectively. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.432: VIBRATION:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: Operating or permitting the operation of any device that creates
vibration which is above the vibration perception threshold of an individual at
or beyond the property of the source if on private property or at fifty feet
(50') from the source if on a public space or public right of way. For the
purposes of this section, "vibration perception threshold" means the minimum
ground- or structure-borne vibrational motion necessary to cause a normal
person to be aware of the vibration by such direct means as, but not limited
to, sensation by touch or visual observation of moving objects. (Ord. 91-19,
1991)
8.16.434: STATIONARY NONEMERGENCY SIGNALING DEVICES:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter:
   A.   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any signal from any stationary
bell, chime, siren, whistle, or similar device, intended primarily for
nonemergency purposes, from any place.
   B.   Devices used in conjunction with places of noncommercial purpose such
as for religious worship or education shall be exempt from the operation of
this provision.
   C.   Sound sources covered by this provision and not exempted under
subsection B of this section shall be exempted by (appropriate authority) using
criteria set forth in section
8.16.510 of this chapter. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.436: EMERGENCY SIGNALING DEVICES:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: The intentional sounding or permitting the sounding outdoors of
any fire, burglar, or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary
emergency signaling device, except for emergency purposes or for reasonable
testing. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.438: NOISE SENSITIVE ZONES:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter:
   A.   Creating or causing the creation of any sound within any noise
sensitive zone so as to disrupt the activities normally conducted within the
zone; provided that conspicuous signs are displayed indicating the presence of
the zone; or
   B.   Creating or causing the creation of any sound within any noise
sensitive zone, containing a hospital, nursing home, or similar activity, so as
to interfere with the functions of such activity or disturb or annoy the
patients in the activity, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed
indicating the presence of the zone. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.440: DOMESTIC POWER TOOLS:
The following acts, and the causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of
this chapter: Operating or permitting the operation of any mechanically powered
saw, sander, drill, grinder, lawn or garden tool, snowblower, or similar device
used outdoors in residential areas between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day so as to cause a noise
disturbance across a residential real property boundary. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
ARTICLE V. EXCEPTIONS AND VARIANCES
8.16.500: EMERGENCY EXCEPTION:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or
   B.   The emission of sound in the performance of emergency work. (Ord. 91-
19, 1991)
8.16.510: SPECIAL VARIANCES:
   A.   The mayor shall have the authority, consistent with this section, to
grant special variances which may be requested.
   B.   Any person seeking a special variance pursuant to this section shall
file an application with the mayor. The application shall contain information
which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or activity for which the
special variance is sought into compliance with this chapter would constitute
an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community, or on other
persons. Any individual who claims to be adversely affected by allowance of the
special variance may file a statement with the mayor containing any information
to support his claim. If the mayor finds that a sufficient controversy exists
regarding an application, a public hearing may be held.
   C.   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the mayor
shall balance the hardship to the applicant, the community, and other persons
of not granting the special variance against the adverse impact on the health,
safety, and welfare of persons affected, the adverse impact on property
affected, and any other adverse impacts of granting the special variance.
Applicants for special variances and persons contesting special variances may
be required to submit any information the mayor may reasonably require. In
granting or denying an application, the mayor shall place on public file a copy
of the decision and the reasons for denying or granting the special variance.
   D.   Special variances shall be granted by notice to the applicant
containing all necessary conditions, including a time limit on the permitted
activity. The special variance shall not become effective until all conditions
are agreed to by the applicant. Noncompliance with any condition of the special
variance shall terminate it and subject the person holding it to those
provisions of this chapter regulating the source of sound or activity for which
the special variance was granted.
   E.   Application for extension of time limits specified in special variances
or for modification of other substantial conditions shall be treated like
applications for initial special variances under subsection B of this section.
(Ord. 91-19, 1991)
ARTICLE VI. SOUND LEVELS BY RECEIVING LAND ZONE
8.16.600: MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS BY RECEIVING LAND ZONE:
No person shall operate or cause to be operated on private property any source
of sound in such a manner as to create a sound level which exceeds the limits
set forth for the receiving land zone category in table I of this section when
measured at or within the property boundary of the receiving land zone.
TABLE I
SOUND LEVELS BY RECEIVING LAND ZONE
Receiving Land Use Zone Time Sound Level  Limit, dBA
Receiving Land Use Zone         Time                    Sound Level  Limit, dBA
R1, R1A, R2                     10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M. 50
R2A, MH                         7:00 P.M. to 10:00 P.M. 55
                                7:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M.  60
R3, R4                          10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M. 55
                                7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. 60
C1, C2, C3                      10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M. 60
                                7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. 65
C1, C2, C3: Where origin of the 10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M. 55
noise is within 100 feet, any
hotel, motel or apartment where 7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. 60
people normally sleep
M1                              Any time                70
 
(Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.610: CORRECTION FOR CHARACTER OF SOUND:
For any source of sound which emits a pure tone or impulsive sound, the maximum
sound level limits set forth in section
8.16.600 of this article shall be reduced by ten (10) dBA. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.620: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
   A.   Activities covered by the following: sections
8.16.422, "Construction",
8.16.428, "Explosives, Firearms, And Similar Devices",
8.16.434, "Stationary Nonemergency Signaling Devices",
8.16.436, "Emergency Signaling Devices",
8.16.440, "Domestic Power Tools",
8.16.730, "Recreational Motorized Vehicles Operating Off Public Rights Of Way",
of this chapter;
   B.   The unamplified human voice;
   C.   Interstate railway locomotives and cars; and
   D.   Nonstationary farming equipment. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
ARTICLE VII. MOTOR VEHICLE MAXIMUM SOUND LEVELS
8.16.700: MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES ON PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
No person shall operate or cause to be operated a public or private motor
vehicle or motorcycle on a public right of way at any time in such a manner
that the sound level emitted by the motor vehicle or the motorcycle exceeds the
level set forth in table II of this section.
TABLE II
MOTOR VEHICLE AND MOTORCYCLE SOUND LIMITS
(Measured At 50 Feet Or 15 Meters) Sound Level In dBA
 
Vehicle Class       Speed Limit 35  mph Speed Limit  Over 35 Stationary  Run Up
                    Or Less             mph
Motor carrier
vehicle engaged in
interstate commerce 88                  90                   88
of GVWR or GCWR of
10,000 pounds or
more
All other motor
vehicles of GVWR or 88                  90                   88
GCWR of 6,000
pounds or more
Any motorcycle      86                  90                   86
Any other motor
vehicle or any
combination of      76                  83                   76
vehicles towed by
any motor vehicle
 
(Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.710: ADEQUATE MUFFLERS OR SOUND DISSIPATIVE DEVICES:
   A.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle or
motorcycle not equipped with a muffler or other sound dissipative device in
good working order and in constant operation; and
   B.   No person shall remove or render inoperative, or cause to be removed or
rendered inoperative, other than for purposes of maintenance, repair, or
replacement, any muffler or sound dissipative device on a motor vehicle or
motorcycle. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.720: MOTOR VEHICLE HORNS AND SIGNALING DEVICES:
The following acts and the causing thereof are declared to be in violation of
this chapter:
   A.   The sounding of any horn or other auditory signaling device on or in
any motor vehicle on any public right of way or public space, except as a
warning of danger. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.730: RECREATION MOTORIZED VEHICLES OPERATING OFF PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any recreational
motorized vehicle off a public right of way in such a manner that the sound
level emitted therefrom exceeds the limits set forth in table III of this
section at a distance of fifty feet (50') (15 meters) or more from the path of
the vehicle when operated on a public space or at or across the boundary of
private property when operated on private property. This section shall apply to
all recreational motorized vehicles, whether or not duly licensed and
registered, including, but not limited to, commercial or noncommercial racing
vehicles, motorcycles, go- carts, snowmobiles, amphibious craft, campers, dune
buggies, and motorboats.
TABLE III
RECREATIONAL MOTORIZED VEHICLE SOUND LIMITS
(Measured At 50 Feet Or 15 Meters)
 
   Vehicle Type Sound Level, dBA
Snowmobile        73
Motorcycle        73
Any other vehicle 73
 
(Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.740: DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE PROHIBITED WHERE POSTED:
The operator of a motor vehicle may not operate the vehicle in a manner to
cause a dynamic braking device to engage where prohibited by an official
traffic control device. (Ord. 13-09, 2013)
ARTICLE VIII. ENFORCEMENT
8.16.800: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of an infraction.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined
for each offense not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   C.   Any person who wilfully or knowingly violates any provision of this
chapter shall be fined for each offense a sum of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) and not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   D.   Each day of violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute
a separate offense. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
8.16.810: ABATEMENT ORDERS:
A court of competent jurisdiction may issue an order requiring abatement of any
source of sound or vibration alleged to be in violation of this chapter within
a reasonable time. (Ord. 91-19, 1991)
CHAPTER 8.20
RAT AND RODENT CONTROL
SECTION:
8.20.010: Nuisance Declared
8.20.020: Definitions
8.20.030: Notice To Abate
8.20.040: Failure To Comply; Abatement By City
8.20.050: Inspection; Health Officer Powers And Duties
8.20.060: Closure Pending Abatement
8.20.070: Condemnation
8.20.080: Interference Unlawful
8.20.090: Maintenance; Owner Responsibility
8.20.100: Hearing; Notice
8.20.110: Hearing; Determination
8.20.120: Compliance; Costs; Violation; Penalty
8.20.130: Business Buildings
8.20.140: Construction To Comply
8.20.150: Utilities
8.20.160: Feed Storage
8.20.170: Scrap Storage
8.20.180: Individual Establishments
8.20.010: NUISANCE DECLARED:
All business buildings and other places maintained, constructed or existing in
violation of the provisions of this chapter are declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior code § 9-2-17)
8.20.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
BUSINESS BUILDING: Any structure, whether public or private regardless of the
type of material used in its construction, located within the boundaries of the
city, that is adapted to occupancy for residence or for the transaction of
business, whether vacant or occupied, for the rendering of professional
services, for the display, sale or storage of goods, wares or merchandise, or
for the performance of work or labor, including hotels, rooming houses,
boardinghouses, apartment houses, beer houses, beer parlors, office buildings,
public buildings, stores, markets, restaurants, grain elevators and abattoirs,
warehouses, workshops and factories, junkyards, scrap iron businesses or
places, lumberyards, coal yards, automobile tire yards, sheds or buildings used
for the storage of tires and any or all similar places where rats may find
harborage.
HEALTH OFFICER: The chief sanitarian of the city or any person appointed by the
mayor.
OCCUPANT: The individual, partnership or corporation that uses or occupies any
business building or part or fraction thereof, whether the actual owner or
tenant. In the case of vacant business buildings or vacant portions thereof,
the owner, agent or custodian shall have the responsibility as occupant.
OWNER: The actual owner, agent or custodian of the business building, whether
individual, partnership or corporation. The lessee shall also be construed as
an "owner" for the purpose of this chapter when business buildings agreements
hold the lessee responsible for maintenance and repairs.
RAT ERADICATION: The elimination or extermination of rats within buildings or
premises by any or all of the accepted measures, such as poisoning, fumigation,
trapping, clubbing, etc.
RAT HARBORAGE: Any condition which provides shelter or protection for rats,
thus favoring their multiplication and continued existence in, under or outside
of any structure.
VENT STOPPAGE OR RATPROOFING OR RATPROOFED: Apply to a form of ratproofing to
prevent the ingress of rats into business buildings from the exterior or from
one business building to another. It consists of the closing and keeping closed
of all openings in the exterior walls, ground or first floors, basements,
roofs, sidewalk gratings, sidewalk openings, foundations, elevator shafts, fire
escapes and other places that may be reached and entered by rats by climbing,
burrowing or otherwise. The material to be used for ratproofing shall include
cement, concrete brick masonry laid in cement, concrete mortar, sheet metal and
hardware cloth of not less than nineteen (19) gauge having a mesh not larger
than one-half inch (1/2"); and all material for ratproofing shall be of such
strength and thickness as to be impervious to rat gnawing. Windows and other
openings for light ventilation, the sills of which are less than thirty inches
(30") from the ground or accessible to rats by means of climbing wires or
pipes; shall, if open, be covered by hardware cloth conforming to the above
gauge and dimensions. All exterior doors shall be protected against the gnawing
of rats by the use of materials prescribed in this subsection. When closed, all
exterior doors shall have a maximum clearance between doors, door sills and
jambs of not exceeding three-eighths inch (3/8"). In all side and rear doors
which are left open at night and those which are left open during the day, but
infrequently used, shall be installed hardware cloth doors conforming to the
above dimensions and equipped with self-closing device. All concrete floors and
curtain walls shall be at least four inches (4") in thickness. (1989 Code:
prior code § 9-2-1)
8.20.030: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Upon receipt of written notice or order from the health officer, the owner of
any business building specified therein shall take immediate measures for
ratproofing the building; and unless the work and improvements have been
completed by the owner in the time specified in the written notice, in no event
to be less than fifteen (15) days, or within the time to which a written
extension may have been granted by the health officer, then the owner shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor under the provisions of this chapter if the
business building is not ratproofed at the expiration of such date. (Prior code
§ 9-2-3)
8.20.040: FAILURE TO COMPLY; ABATEMENT BY CITY:
Whenever the health officer notifies the owner and occupant or occupants of a
business building that there is evidence of rat infestation of the building,
the owner and occupant or occupants shall immediately institute appropriate
measures for freeing the premises of all rats; and that unless suitable
measures for freeing the building of rats are instituted within fifteen (15)
days after receipt of notice and unless continuously maintained in a
satisfactory manner until the building is free of rats, the health officer is
authorized and directed after notice and hearing as provided in sections
8.20.100 through
8.20.120 of this chapter to free the building of rats at the expense of the
owner thereof; and the health officer shall submit bills for the costs thereof
to the owner or occupant of the building; and if the same are not paid within
thirty (30) days, the health officer shall certify the amount due from the
owner or occupant to the city attorney and the city attorney shall bring suit
to collect the same. (Prior code § 9-2-4)
8.20.050: INSPECTION; HEALTH OFFICER POWERS AND DUTIES:
The health officer is empowered to make unannounced inspections of the interior
and exterior of business buildings to determine full compliance with this
chapter, and the health officer shall make periodic inspection at intervals of
not more than three (3) months of all ratproofed buildings to determine
evidence of rat infestation and the existence of new breaks or leaks in their
ratproofing and when any evidence is found indicating the presence of rats or
openings through which rats may again enter business buildings, the health
officer shall serve the owners or occupants with notice or orders to abate the
conditions found. The health officer is authorized to obtain a search warrant
from a court having jurisdiction when necessary. (Prior code § 9-2-6)
8.20.060: CLOSURE PENDING ABATEMENT:
Whenever conditions inside or under occupied business buildings provide
extensive harborage for rats, the health officer is empowered after due
notification in accordance with section
8.20.030 of this chapter, after notice and hearing as provided in sections
8.20.100 through
8.20.120 of this chapter, to close such business buildings until such time as
the conditions are abated by ratproofing, and harborage removal including, if
necessary, the installation of suitable concrete floors in basements or
replacement of wooden first or ground floors with concrete or other major
repairs necessary to facilitate rat eradication. (Prior code § 9-2-7)
8.20.070: CONDEMNATION:
Whenever conditions inside or under unoccupied business buildings provide
extensive harborage for rats, the health officer is empowered to require
compliance with the provisions of section
8.20.030 of this chapter, and in the event that the conditions are not
corrected in a period of sixty (60) days, or within the time to which a written
extension may have been granted, the health officer is empowered to institute
condemnation and destruction proceedings. (Prior code § 9-2-8)
8.20.080: INTERFERENCE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful under the provisions of this chapter for the occupant, owner,
contractor, public utility company, plumber or any other person to remove and
fail to restore in like condition the ratproofing from any business building
for any purpose. Further, it is unlawful for any person or agent to make any
new openings that are not sealed or closed against the entrance of rats. (Prior
code § 9-2-9)
8.20.090: MAINTENANCE; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
The owners of all ratproofed business buildings are required to maintain the
premises in a ratproof condition and to repair all breaks or leaks that may
occur in the ratproofing without a specific order of the health officer. (Prior
code § 9-2-5)
8.20.100: HEARING; NOTICE:
If the corrective action ordered by the health officer under this chapter has
not been taken within ten (10) days after such decision or order thereof, the
health officer shall give notice that the mayor will hear the matter. Notice of
hearing shall be given by:
   A.   Personal service of a copy of the notice on the person not complying;
or
   B.   By leaving a copy at the residence or business building not complying
with anyone at such address who is over the age of fourteen (14) years; or
   C.   If the building is vacant, by posting a copy of the notice on the
building and by mailing a copy of the notice to the last known address of the
person not complying with the order. (1989 Code: prior code § 9-2-15(a))
8.20.110: HEARING; DETERMINATION:
At the time set for hearing by the health officer, the mayor shall hear the
matter and receive evidence and determine what corrective action is required,
if any. The decision of the mayor shall be in writing and a copy mailed to the
person not complying. (1989 Code: prior code § 9-2-15(b))
8.20.120: COMPLIANCE; COSTS; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who does not comply with the decision of the mayor shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and punished. The mayor may order the health officer to take
the corrective action required if the person who does not comply fails to do so
and a court action shall be commenced against such person for any cost incurred
by the city by the city attorney. (1989 Code: prior code § 9-2-15(c))
8.20.130: BUSINESS BUILDINGS:
All business buildings in the city shall be ratproofed by the owner and
occupant, freed of rats and maintained in a ratproofed and rat free condition
by the owner and occupant or tenant. (Prior code § 9-2-2)
8.20.140: CONSTRUCTION TO COMPLY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation hereafter to
construct, repair or remodel any building, dwelling, stable or market or other
structure unless it is ratproofed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; provided, that only such repairs, remodeling or installation as affect
the ratproof condition of any building or other structure shall be considered
as subject to the provisions of this chapter. Furthermore, it is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation hereafter to occupy any building or structure
wherein foodstuffs are to be stored, kept, handled, sold, held or offered for
sale without complying with the ratproof provisions of this chapter for
existing buildings and structures. No license from the city to conduct or carry
on a business will be issued to any person, firm or corporation until the
requirements of this chapter have been complied with.
   B.   When in the opinion of the chief building inspector plans for building,
remodeling or renovating indicate that such changes or construction will affect
the ratproof condition of a building or structure, the chief building inspector
shall forward such plans or specifications to the board of health for their
recommendations with regard to ratproofing or vent stopping. This shall apply
both to new buildings or the renovating of existing structures. When a building
or other structure shall have been ratproofed in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter, the owner shall, without a specific order of the city health
officer and regardless of need for remodeling, repair or installation, maintain
such building or structure in a ratproof condition. (Prior code § 9-2-10)
8.20.150: UTILITIES:
Utility companies shall place all wires and guy wires attached to buildings at
least eighteen inches (18") away from openings or attach rat guards. (Prior
code § 9-2-11)
8.20.160: FEED STORAGE:
All food and feed within the city for feeding chickens, cows, pigs, horses and
other animals shall be stored in rat free and ratproof containers, compartments
or rooms unless stored in a ratproof building. (Prior code § 9-2-12)
8.20.170: SCRAP STORAGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to place, leave, dump or permit to
accumulate any garbage, rubbish, trash or junk in any building or on any
premises, improved or vacant, or on any open lot or alley or elevated loading
platforms in the city so that same shall or may afford food or harborage for
rats.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises,
improved or vacant, or on any open lot or alley in the city any lumber, boxes,
barrels, bottles, cans, containers, junk or other materials that may be
permitted to remain thereon unless same shall be placed on open racks that are
elevated not less than eighteen inches (18") above the ground, or floor, and
evenly piled or stacked. (Prior code § 9-2-13)
8.20.180: INDIVIDUAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
Where circumstances show it is essential for complete and permanent rat
eradication, the health officer may require ratproofing each individual
establishment where buildings occur containing more than one establishment.
(Prior code § 9-2-14)
CHAPTER 8.24
FUMIGATION
SECTION:
8.24.010: Control
8.24.010: CONTROL:
No person shall use in any building, vessel or any place in the city a fumigant
exterminator or an insecticide for the destruction or control of insects,
vermin, rodents or other pests or engage in any business of such fumigation or
extermination without a permit issued by the state board of agriculture. (1989
Code: prior code § 10-7-1)
CHAPTER 8.28
MOSQUITO BREEDING CONTROL
SECTION:
8.28.010: Prevention
8.28.010: PREVENTION:
It is unlawful within the corporate limits of the city for any person to have,
keep or maintain, cause or permit any collection of standing or flowing water
in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, unless such collection of
water is treated so as eventually to prevent such breeding. (Prior code § 10-6-
1)
CHAPTER 8.32
REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL 1
SECTION:
8.32.010: Definitions
8.32.020: Purpose
8.32.030: Refuse; Related Service, Permit, And Landfill Fees
8.32.040: Permits
8.32.050: Permitted Collectors Of Recyclable Refuse Must Deliver Such To
Recycling Facility
8.32.060: Notice Of Violation
8.32.070: Enforcement
8.32.080: Hearing
8.32.090: Appeal
8.32.100: Emergency Action
8.32.110: Inspection
8.32.120: Refuse Acceptable For Collection
8.32.130: Unacceptable Refuse
8.32.140: Collection; Places To Be Served
8.32.150: Collection; Frequency
8.32.160: Refuse Placed For Collection
8.32.170: Transport And Disposal
8.32.180: Equipment
 
Notes
1 1. Prior history: Prior code §§ 9-1-1 – 9-1-5, 9-1-6(a) – 9-1-6(h), 9-1-7 – 9-1-15;
  1989 Code; Ord. 90-72 § 1, 1990.
8.32.010: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BUSINESS OF REFUSE COLLECTION OR REFUSE DISPOSAL: The regular collection,
hauling and/or disposal of refuse from any person, whether for hire or for
themselves. "Regular" in this definition means a frequency of more than four
(4) times per year.
CLEAN FILL: Sand, soil, dirt, gravel, or similar earth material with no
chemical contamination.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS OR C&D: Materials from the construction,
demolition, etc., of any building, structure, paving or surface construction
and consisting of mixed materials, such as, but not limited to, brick, tile,
wood, roofing, dry wall, concrete, asphalt, flooring, and plaster. The
responsible authority has final say concerning the applicability of specific
materials.
GALLONS: The capacity in gallons of a refuse container, it being contemplated
that an ordinary refuse container shall have a minimum capacity of
approximately sixty (60) gallons.
GREEN WASTE: A recyclable refuse collected and delivered specifically for the
purpose of composting; including, but not limited to, yard trimmings, six foot
(6') and under tree branches, Christmas trees, and leaves.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any waste which falls under any one of the following criteria:
has been named as hazardous waste and is listed in 40 CFR 261 subpart D,
exhibits any of the hazardous characteristics described in 40 CFR 261 subpart C
(e.g., ignitable, corrosive, reactive, toxic), is a mixture containing a listed
hazardous waste, and is not exempted or excluded from regulation as a hazardous
waste as described in 40 CFR 261 subpart C from RCRA subtitle D, part 258.20
"Procedures for Excluding the Receipt of Hazardous Waste".
ILLEGAL DISPOSAL OR ILLEGAL DUMPING: The discharge, deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste, hazardous waste, or
regulated hazardous waste into or on any land or water not designated as a
class I sanitary landfill so that such solid waste or hazardous waste or any
constituent thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or
discharged into any waters, including ground waters.
INFECTIOUS MEDICAL WASTE: Any waste from a hospital or health care facility or
residence that contains sufficient pathogenic properties to render the waste a
"biological hazard". Any discarded or contaminated article or instrument from a
health facility that may cause puncture or cuts. Such waste may include
needles, syringes, blades, needles with attached tubing, pipettes, broken glass
and blood vials.
INOPERABLE, JUNKED OR UNUSED VEHICLES:
   A.   Any vehicle, parts of which are in a state of disrepair, or parts of
which have been removed therefrom rendering the same incapable of being safely
or legally operated;
   B.   Any vehicle which has been wrecked or damaged in such a manner so that
in its present condition it cannot safely or legally be operated; or
   C.   A motor vehicle which has not been registered for any time in excess of
one year.
LANDFILL: An area of land or an excavation permitted by the state of Utah in
which wastes are placed for permanent disposal, and that is not a land
application unit, surface impoundment injection well, or waste pile.
LIQUID WASTE: Any waste material that is determined to contain "free liquids"
as defined by method 9095 (paint filter liquids test), as described in "Test
Methods For Evaluating Solid Wastes, Physical/Chemical Methods" (EPA Pub. SW-
846).
LITTER: Any quantity of debris, bottles, glass, cans, plastic, metal, junk,
paper, garbage, refuse, trash or miscellaneous solid or semisolid waste which
is not contained or otherwise controlled for proper storage, collection or
other disposal as provided for in this chapter.
OWNER: Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
   A.   Shall have the legal title to any premises, dwelling or dwelling unit
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
   B.   Shall have the charge, care or control of any premises, dwelling or
dwelling unit, as legal or equitable owner or agent of such owner.
PERSON: Any institution, public or private corporation, individual, partnership
or other entity.
PREMISES: Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles or parts thereof, upon
or in which refuse is stored.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Exterior locations owned by private individuals, firms,
corporations, institutions or organizations, including, but not limited to,
yards, grounds, driveways, passageways, parking areas and vacant lots.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Exterior locations owned by any public entity or privately
owned property dedicated to the public use, including, but not limited to,
streets, sidewalks, strips between streets and sidewalks, parking lots, school
grounds, parks, playgrounds, and bodies of water.
RECYCLABLE REFUSE: Refuse that can be recovered from or otherwise diverted from
the waste stream for the purpose of recycling, such as metals, paper,
cardboard, glass, and plastic, etc.
REFUSE: All solid wastes of a community, including garbage, ashes, rubbish,
dead animals, street cleanings and solid market and industrial wastes, but not
including body wastes. For the purposes of this chapter, construction and
demolition debris is considered refuse; clean fill is not considered refuse.
REFUSE CONTAINER OR AUTHORIZED REFUSE CONTAINER: A receptacle of sufficient
size, shape, condition, and material as authorized by the responsible authority
to hold refuse for collection and/or disposal or reuse or composting purposes.
RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY: The department or agency appointed by the mayor, and
duly authorized representatives who are authorized and directed by such
department or agency, to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
RESTRICTED WASTE: Materials that meet the classification of liquid waste,
infectious medical waste, used motor oil, PCB waste, or lead-acid batteries, or
tires. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.020: PURPOSE:
The responsible authority of the city, in order to protect the health and
safety of the people of this city, is authorized and directed, by implementing
and enforcing the provisions of this chapter, to control the storage,
collection and disposal of refuse within the city, to provide a public refuse
collection and refuse disposal service from premises within the city, so that
the type and usual quantity of refuse can be safely and expeditiously handled
by such public refuse collection and disposal service, and to approve and
regulate the establishment, maintenance and operation of private refuse
collection systems and refuse disposal methods and sites. (Ord. 99-78 § 1,
1999)
8.32.030: REFUSE; RELATED SERVICE, PERMIT, AND LANDFILL FEES:
   A.   Maximum fees for user services, permit application, landfill use, and
other related services, within the city shall be established, as appropriate
and necessary, by resolution of the municipal council.
   B.   The responsible authority shall establish appropriate fees or prices
for services or commodities not otherwise covered in subsection A of this
section. Such fees or prices include, but are not limited to, recyclable or
compost commodity sales, and atypical or short term specialized services. Such
fees shall be established after an examination of all relevant facts pertaining
to the particular situation and shall be based as nearly as practical on the
rates established by resolution; provided, however, that in establishing such
fees in individual cases any lesser or greater cost to the city shall be taken
into consideration.
   C.   Fees as provided in this section shall be payable by combined billing
in conjunction with the electricity bill or by separate billing. Such fees
shall be collected by the billing division or in person by the authorized
representative at time of service. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.040: PERMITS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who does not possess a permit from the
responsible authority, in addition to any business license required by title 5
of this code, to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal
in the city, unless acting under contract with Cache County service area 1 or
the city.
   B.   The responsible authority may issue permits for such applicants under
the following conditions:
      1.   They have proper equipment and personnel to collect and dispose of
refuse in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The method of disposal used is in accordance with the requirements
of section
8.32.170 of this chapter.
      3.   They are collecting and/or disposing of unacceptable refuse
(described in section
8.32.130 of this chapter), or "recyclable refuse" (as defined) for themselves
or for hire.
      4.   They are collecting and/or disposing of any refuse for themselves
only.
   C.   Every person desiring a permit to engage in the collection and/or
disposal of refuse shall make written application to the responsible authority,
setting forth the name of such person, the residence address thereof or the
address of the place of business, a description of the equipment to be used in
the collection and/or disposal of refuse, the place of disposal and the method
of disposal to be practiced. Upon approval of such application, a permit may be
issued in accordance with guidelines in subsections A and B of this section.
   D.   Any person whose application for a permit has been denied may request,
and shall be granted a hearing before the responsible authority, under the
procedure provided by section
8.32.080 of this chapter.
   E.   A permit issued under this chapter shall expire and be renewable
annually, subject to the criteria contained in subsections A and B of this
section. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.050: PERMITTED COLLECTORS OF RECYCLABLE REFUSE MUST DELIVER SUCH TO
RECYCLING FACILITY:
Persons collecting recyclable refuse from some source other than themselves,
under authority of a permit issued for that purpose, and subsequently disposing
of such collected material at any landfill or similar facility for permanent
disposal shall be deemed in violation of the conditions of said permit.
Reasonable and customary volume of contamination in recyclable refuse loads is
not intended to constitute such violation under this section. (Ord. 99-78 § 1,
1999)
8.32.060: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Whenever the responsible authority has determined that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
chapter, the responsible authority shall give notice of such alleged violation
to the person or persons responsible therefor, as hereinafter provided.
   A.   Such notice shall:
      1.   Be put into writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
      3.   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      4.   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
      5.   State that unless conditions or practices described in such notice
which violate this chapter are corrected within the reasonable time specified
in such notice, the violator may be punished, privileges restricted or any
current permit suspended or revoked, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter;
      6.   Be served upon the holder of a permit issued under this chapter, or
upon the owner or his agent or the occupant of any premises within the city;
provided, that such notice shall be deemed to have been properly served when a
copy thereof has been served personally, via U.S. postal service, or in
accordance with any other method authorized or required under the laws of this
state for commencement of civil actions. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.070: ENFORCEMENT:
Any person failing to comply with the "notice of violation" letter (described
in section
8.32.060 of this chapter) shall be subject to one or more of the following
enforcement actions:
   A.   Continued or additional administrative restrictions to violator's use
of services and facilities directly related to provisions in this chapter,
including, but not limited to, landfill and related facilities and refuse
collection services, revocation of permits issued under section
8.32.040 of this chapter, as prescribed in section
8.32.080 of this chapter.
   B.   Responsible authority removing or correcting violation, including the
power to enter on the property in violation, or to authorize others to enter on
such property and cause such removal or correction, at violator's cost as
provided in subsection C of this section.
   C.   The responsible authority, upon approved completion of any work
required in subsection B of this section, shall prepare an itemized statement
of all costs, including administrative expenses incurred by the authority, plus
the cost of removal or otherwise correcting the violation of this chapter. It
is determined that the minimum fee, including administrative and other costs,
which can be assessed herein, is one hundred dollars ($100.00). The responsible
authority shall mail a copy of such statement to the owner or occupant
demanding reimbursement to the department of such costs by payment to the city
treasurer within twenty (20) days of the date of mailing. Such notice shall be
deemed delivered when mailed postage prepaid, addressed to the owner or
occupant at the last known address appearing on the records of the county
assessor.
   D.   Criminal prosecution. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.080: HEARING:
Any affected person wishing to challenge a permit denial, notice of violation
or noncriminal enforcement action initiated by the responsible authority may
request a hearing on the matter before the responsible authority. The hearing
shall be requested in writing and filed in the office of the responsible
authority within ten (10) business days of the date of the enforcement letter
or permit denial. The written hearing request shall set forth in a brief
statement the grounds for which the hearing is being sought. Upon receipt of
said request, the responsible authority shall set a time and place for the
hearing, which when practicable, shall be within twenty (20) days of the
written request. The findings and decision of the responsible authority at the
hearing shall be put in writing and mailed or personally delivered to the
person requesting the hearing within ten (10) days of the hearing conclusion.
(Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.090: APPEAL:
Any affected person wishing to appeal the decision rendered at the hearing
pursuant to section
8.32.080 of this chapter may file a written appeal with the mayor at the Logan
City recorder's office within twenty (20) days of the hearing. The mayor may
sustain, modify, or overturn the decision of the responsible authority. The
mayor's decision will be filed with the city recorder and responsible authority
and will be the final administrative decision. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.100: EMERGENCY ACTION:
Whenever the responsible authority finds that an emergency exists involving a
serious health hazard which requires immediate action to protect the public
health, the responsible authority may without notice or hearing issue a written
order reciting the existence of such an emergency and the conditions violating
this chapter which required corrective action to remove such health hazard. If
such corrective action is not taken, the responsible authority may take such
action including the abatement of any nuisance as may be necessary to protect
the public health. Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, such order
shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the mayor shall be afforded
a hearing as soon as possible. After such hearing, depending upon findings of
the mayor as to whether or not the provisions of this chapter and of the
regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with, the mayor shall
continue such order in effect, or modify it, or revoke it. (Ord. 99-78 § 1,
1999)
8.32.110: INSPECTION:
The responsible authority, after identifying himself or herself, shall have the
power to enter at reasonable times upon private or public property for the
purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter and where necessary shall obtain a search
warrant from a court having jurisdiction. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.120: REFUSE ACCEPTABLE FOR COLLECTION:
The following refuse shall be considered to be acceptable for collection by the
responsible authority:
   A.   Garbage: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and/or consumption of foods;
   B.   Ashes: The cold residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other
combustible materials;
   C.   Rubbish: Nonputrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of
paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery,
metals and similar materials;
   D.   Dead Animals: Small, dead animals not exceeding seventy five (75)
pounds each in weight, which die in the normal course of community activity
excluding condemned animals, animals from a slaughterhouse, or other animals
normally considered industrial refuse. These excluded animals may be removed by
the responsible authority upon request. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.130: UNACCEPTABLE REFUSE:
The following refuse shall be considered not to be acceptable for collection
(except by special arrangement) by the responsible authority:
   A.   Hazardous wastes or waste materials with chemical properties such as
flammability, toxicity, acidity, causticity, oxidizer, radioactivity,
explosive, and compressed gas.
   B.   Construction and demolition debris (C&D), except by special arrangement
with the responsible authority.
   C.   Materials which have not been prepared for collection in accordance
with these regulations.
   D.   Any other material which in the judgment of the responsible authority
is dangerous to equipment or infeasible to handle.
   E.   Restricted waste material that meets the classification of liquid
waste, infectious medical waste, used motor oil, PCB waste, lead-acid
batteries, or tires. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.140: COLLECTION; PLACES TO BE SERVED:
The responsible authority shall collect all refuse acceptable for collection as
provided in section
8.32.120 of this chapter, from all family or apartment dwellings and
institutions, business and industrial establishments, not otherwise handled by
permitted persons under provisions of section
8.32.040 of this chapter. This shall not preclude the responsible authority
from withholding services pursuant to section
8.32.070 of this chapter. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.150: COLLECTION; FREQUENCY:
   A.   Refuse service shall be available for collection by the responsible
authority, as described in section
8.32.140 of this chapter, at least once per week.
   B.   At the discretion of the responsible authority, collection services may
or may not be provided on generally recognized city holidays, or on any city
holiday established by ordinance. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.160: REFUSE PLACED FOR COLLECTION:
   A.   All household refuse to be collected by the responsible authority shall
be placed, in an authorized refuse container, on the curb in front of the
residence, no more than twenty four (24) hours prior to the established
collection day for the area in question. All empty refuse containers shall be
removed from the street before the end of the collection day, after being
emptied. No such container shall be permitted to remain on any street longer
than twenty four (24) hours after being emptied.
   B.   At business establishments utilizing authorized refuse containers which
are designed for placement at the curb or on the street (normally 100 gallons
or less) such containers shall be placed at such time and place as shall be
designated by the responsible authority. All empty refuse containers, so
described in this subsection, shall be removed from the street before the end
of the collection day, after being emptied. No such container shall be
permitted to remain on any street longer than twenty four (24) hours after
being emptied.
   C.   Refuse must be placed in container so the lid can be reasonably closed.
Excess refuse on top of, next to, overflowing from, etc., is considered
overloaded. Persons overloading containers may be subject to service
restrictions or other actions as appropriate pursuant to section
8.32.070 of this chapter. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.170: TRANSPORT AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   All disposal of refuse shall be by a method or methods in accordance
with requirements of state and local law and shall include the maximum
practicable rodent, insect and nuisance control at the place or places of
disposal.
   B.   No garbage shall be fed to hogs, unless such garbage has been heat
treated to kill any disease agents therein by boiling for thirty (30) minutes
or by other equally effective means.
   C.   Animal offal and carcasses of dead animals shall be buried or cremated
as directed by the responsible authority or shall be rendered at forty (40)
pounds per square inch of steam pressure or higher or shall be heated by
equivalent cooking.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person, except the responsible authority or its
designated agent or contractor, and those persons possessing a permit, to
regularly haul or transport refuse upon the streets and public ways of the
city; provided, however, upon a showing of necessity or convenience to the
city, the responsible authority may authorize any person, as provided in
subsection
8.32.040B of this chapter, to haul and transport its refuse upon the streets
and public ways of the city.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person, while transporting refuse or otherwise,
intentionally or carelessly to throw, cast, put into, drop or permit to fall
from a vehicle and remain in any street, gutter, sidewalk or public place any
stones, gravel, sand, coal, dirt, manure, garbage, leaves, lawn or hedge
clippings or rubbish of any kind or any other substance which shall render such
highway unsafe or unsightly or shall interfere with travel thereon.
   F.   It is unlawful for any person to transport refuse that is not covered
so as to keep the waste material contained in the transport vehicle during
transport on any street or public right of way.
   G.   It is unlawful for any person to burn papers, boxes, dry rubbish or
similar materials unless it is burned in an incinerator approved by the
responsible party, and controlled so as not to create a smoke or odor nuisance.
Hours of burning will be regulated and posted by the responsible authority.
(Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
8.32.180: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   All public or private vehicles used for the collection or disposal of
refuse shall have enclosed bodies or suitable provision for covering the body.
Provision and use of tarpaulin or canvas cover to enclose open bodies of
collection vehicles may be permitted when specifically approved by the
responsible authority.
   B.   Vehicles used for the collection or disposal of garbage, or of refuse
containing garbage, shall have watertight, metal bodies of easily cleanable
construction, shall be cleaned at sufficient frequency to prevent nuisance or
insect breeding and shall be maintained in good repair. (Ord. 99-78 § 1, 1999)
CHAPTER 8.34
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY; RECOVERY OF EXPENSE 1
SECTION:
8.34.010: Definitions
8.34.020: Recovery Of Expenses
 
Notes
1 1. Prior history: Ord. 90-5, 1990.
8.34.010: DEFINITIONS:
EXPENSES: Actual labor costs of government and volunteer personnel, including
workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits, administrative overhead, costs
of equipment, costs of equipment operations, cost of materials and the cost of
any contract labor and materials.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY: A sudden and unexpected release of any substance
that because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical, or
infectious characteristics presents a direct or immediate threat to public
safety or the environment and poses an immediate threat to public safety or the
environment and requires immediate action to mitigate the threat. (Ord. 03-12 §
2, 2003)
8.34.020: RECOVERY OF EXPENSES:
The city shall be entitled to recover expenses it may incur in the response to,
and/or mitigation and/or cleanup of, any hazardous materials emergency from the
person or entity who owned and/or had control over and/or caused the release of
the hazardous material involved in the hazardous materials emergency. (Ord. 03-
12 § 2, 2003)
CHAPTER 8.36
PROHIBITION OF THE DISTRIBUTION OF DISPOSABLE PLASTIC BAGS
(Rep. by Ord. 21-23, 2021)
CHAPTER 8.38
DISPOSAL OF REFUSE, UNSIGHTLY OBJECTS 1
SECTION:
8.38.010: Definitions
8.38.020: Sanitation, Litter, Junked Vehicles And Illegal Disposal, Owner
Responsibilities
8.38.030: Responsibility Of Distributors Of Handbills
8.38.040: Unlawful Use Of Specific Refuse Containers
8.38.050: General Landfill Standards
8.38.060: Enforcement
 
Notes
1 1. Prior history: Ord. 92-55 § 1, 1992.
   
8.38.010: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions described in section
8.32.010 of this title shall apply to provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 99-114
§ 1, 1999)
8.38.020: SANITATION, LITTER, JUNKED VEHICLES AND ILLEGAL DISPOSAL, OWNER
RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent, occupant and lessee to keep
their private property within the city in a sanitary condition and free of
litter. This requirement applies not only to removal of loose litter, but to
materials that already are, or become, trapped at such locations as fence and
wall bases, grassy and planted areas, borders, embankments and other lodging
points.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or allow to be
placed or deposited on his premises any refuse, other than green waste, unless
in connection with a business enterprise lawfully situated, licensed and
permitted for the same, or to engage in any other form of illegal disposal on
said premises.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to place or deposit refuse, other than
green waste, on another person's premises, unless in connection with a business
enterprise lawfully situated, licensed and permitted for the same and with the
express permission of the owner or agent of said premises, or to engage in any
other form of illegal disposal on said premises. Further, it is unlawful for
any person to place or deposit green waste on another person's premises without
the express permission of the owner or agent of said premises.
   D.   Owners, agents, occupants or lessees whose properties border municipal
sidewalks, strips between streets and sidewalks and alleyways shall be
responsible for keeping those sidewalks, strips, and alleyways free of litter.
   E.   It is unlawful to sweep or push litter from sidewalks and steps into
streets. Sidewalk and step sweepings must be picked up and put into refuse
containers.
   F.   It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit any inoperable, junked
or unused vehicles to be in or upon any public or private property, unless in
connection with a business enterprise lawfully situated, licensed, and
permitted for the same or as allowed in subsection G of this section.
   G.   Notwithstanding any other provision it shall be permissible for any
person to keep up to, but no more than, two (2) inoperable, junked or unused
vehicles on his or her property so long as the vehicles are kept behind a six
foot (6') opaque fence or structure which has the effect of blocking the view
of the vehicles from public or private property. (Ord. 99-114 § 1, 1999)
8.38.030: RESPONSIBILITY OF DISTRIBUTORS OF HANDBILLS:
It shall be the duty of every person distributing commercial handbills,
leaflets, flyers or any other advertising and information material to take
whatever measures that may be necessary to keep such materials from littering
public or private property. (Ord. 99-114 § 1, 1999)
8.38.040: UNLAWFUL USE OF SPECIFIC REFUSE CONTAINERS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person(s) not authorized by the responsible
authority to dispose of, discard, place, put, or drop refuse into a refuse
container not designated for their use. It is also unlawful for those persons
to similarly deposit refuse that is not generated on a public site into a
refuse container designated for public use at that site.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person(s) not authorized by the responsible
authority to dispose of, discard, place, put, or drop refuse or other materials
into a refuse container that is designated for recycled refuse or green waste,
as indicated by clear and appropriate labeling, container color, etc., other
than that material for which it is designated.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person(s) to take or remove recyclable materials
from refuse containers so designated, without permission from the responsible
authority, or permitted owner of such container, as applicable. (Ord. 99-114 §
1, 1999)
8.38.050: GENERAL LANDFILL STANDARDS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person(s) to dispose of discard, toss, or get
rid of a hazardous waste or a restricted waste at the landfill, unless specific
authorization and instructions are obtained for each specified material.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person(s) to remove from the landfill any
material without the approval of the responsible authority.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person(s) to hunt within the limits of the
landfill without permission from the responsible authority.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person(s), to smoke or have an open flame on the
landfill except in an area officially designated by the responsible authority.
   E.   It is the responsibility of any person(s) disposing of refuse at the
landfill, in addition to paying applicable fees as indicated, to place
materials in specific containers or areas as instructed by landfill personnel,
signs, or other clear means.
   F.   It is unlawful for any person(s) to place into containers, piles or
areas clearly designated for specific materials, as indicated by signs, verbal
instruction or other clear means, materials other than those so designated (for
example, rocks or other debris in area designated for grass clippings or
branches). (Ord. 99-114 § 1, 1999)
8.38.060: ENFORCEMENT:
Person(s) violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
enforcement and corrective actions as established in sections
8.32.060 through
8.32.090 of this title. (Ord. 99-114 § 1, 1999)
CHAPTER 8.40
UNAUTHORIZED FEEDING OF DEER, ELK AND MOOSE
SECTION:
8.40.010: Definitions
8.40.020: Unauthorized Feeding Of Deer
8.40.030: Violation And Penalty
8.40.010: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, unless it is evident from the context that a
different meaning is intended, certain terms used in this chapter are defined
as follows:
DEER: Includes deer, elk, or moose.
PERSON: Includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, other
legal entity.
PROPERTY OWNER: The actual owner, agent or custodian of the residence or
business building, whether individual, partnership or corporation. The lessee
shall also be construed as an "owner" for the purpose of this chapter. (Ord.
16-38, 2016)
8.40.020: UNAUTHORIZED FEEDING OF DEER:
   A.   Unless otherwise expressly permitted by law, no person shall deposit,
place, or distribute any fruit, grain, hay, vegetable, minerals, salt, or other
food or material, of any kind or nature, with the intent to attract or feed
deer on public or private lands.
   B.   It shall be presumed that the placement of fruit, grain, hay,
vegetable, minerals, salt, or other food or material in aggregate volume of
more than one-half (1/2) gallon and at height of less than six feet (6') off
the ground, or in any drop feeder, automatic feed, or similar device regardless
of height, is for the purpose of feeding deer in violation of this section.
This presumption may be overcome through the presentation of reasonable
evidence that the placement of such materials is for a purpose other than the
feeding of deer. Naturally growing plants, gardens, residue maintained as a
mulch pile, and bird feeders designed or placed to limit access to deer are not
prohibited under this section.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any resident or agent
of the City authorized to implement a wildlife management program and who
possesses the necessary permits from the State of Utah, nor shall it apply to
any public officer or public employee in the performance of his duties. The
provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the feeding of domestic animals,
as defined in section
6A.02.030 of this Code.
   D.   The Chief of Police or an animal control officer may authorize
temporary feeding of deer for the purpose of counting the deer population,
baiting traps, or other public purposes. (Ord. 16-38, 2016)
8.40.030: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
City officials shall issue a written warning for the first offense under this
section. Thereafter, further violation of this chapter shall be an infraction.
(Ord. 16-38, 2016)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC PEACE, MORALS AND WELFARE
CHAPTER 9.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9.04.010: Principals
9.04.020: Intoxication No Defense
9.04.030: Violation; Penalty
9.04.010: PRINCIPALS:
All persons concerned in the commission of an act, defined by these revised
ordinances to be a misdemeanor, whether they directly commit the act
constituting a misdemeanor or aid and abet in its commission, or, not being
present, have advised and encouraged its commission, and all persons
counseling, advising or encouraging children under the age of fourteen (14)
years, lunatics or idiots to commit any act defined as a misdemeanor in this
code, or who by fraud, contrivance or force occasion the drunkenness of another
for the purpose of causing such person to commit such offense or who, by
threats, menace, demand or coercion, compel another to commit any such offense
are principals in the offense so committed. (Prior code § 12-1-1)
9.04.020: INTOXICATION NO DEFENSE:
No act committed by a person in a state of voluntary intoxication is less an
offense by reason of his having been in such condition. (Prior code § 12-1-2)
9.04.030: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Penalty provisions pertaining to violations of this code are found in
chapter 1.16 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-1-4)
CHAPTER 9.08
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
9.08.010: Interference With City Officer
9.08.020: Refusal To Aid Officer
9.08.030: Impersonating An Officer
9.08.040: Refusal To Deliver Property To Successor
9.08.050: False Name, Age Or Address To Law Enforcement Officer
9.08.060: False Reports Of Offenses To Law Enforcement Officer
9.08.070: Physically Interfering With Or Resisting Arrest
9.08.080: Prisoners
9.08.090: Injuring Public Library Property
9.08.010: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to physically interfere with, resist, molest or
threaten to molest or physically interfere with any officer of the city while
in the performance of the officer's official duties. (Prior code § 12-15-3)
9.08.020: REFUSAL TO AID OFFICER:
Every person refusing or neglecting, when called upon by the chief of police or
other peace officer of the city to aid in the suppressing of a riot, or when
called upon by the chief of police or any policeman to aid in arresting and
securing an offender, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior code § 12-15-5)
9.08.030: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to falsely impersonate or represent himself or
herself to be an officer of the city or without any authority to perform any
official act for or in behalf of any such officer. (Prior code § 12-15-2)
9.08.040: REFUSAL TO DELIVER PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
If any person, having been an officer of this city, shall not within five (5)
days after notification and request, deliver to her or his successor in office,
all property, records, papers and effects of every description in his or her
possession belonging to the city or appertaining to the office she or he held,
such person shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior code § 12-15-6)
9.08.050: FALSE NAME, AGE OR ADDRESS TO LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
A person commits a class C misdemeanor if, with the intent of misleading a law
enforcement officer as to her or his identity or age, such person knowingly
gives a false name, age or address to a law enforcement officer in the lawful
discharge of the officer's official duties. (Prior code § 12-15-8)
9.08.060: FALSE REPORTS OF OFFENSES TO LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
A person is guilty of a class B misdemeanor if such person:
   A.   Knowingly gives or causes to be given false information to any law
enforcement officer with the purpose of inducing the officer to believe that
another has committed an offense; or
   B.   Knowingly gives or causes to be given information to any law
enforcement officer concerning the commission of an offense knowing that the
offense did not occur or knowing that he or she has no information relating to
the offense or danger. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-15-9)
9.08.070: PHYSICALLY INTERFERING WITH OR RESISTING ARREST:
Every person within the limits of the city who wilfully and physically resists,
delays or obstructs a peace officer's arrest, transfer to incarceration or a
place for questioning, or other appropriate place, or the conduct of other
appropriate police action incident to arrest or any person where probable cause
for the arrest exists, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor. (1989 Code:
prior code § 12-15-10)
9.08.080: PRISONERS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is in official custody to escape from
that custody.
   B.   "Official custody", for the purpose of this section, means arrest.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to aid another person to escape from
official custody; or to knowingly provide or attempt to provide a person in
official custody with anything which may facilitate such person's escape.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person to furnish, or to attempt to furnish, or
to take into the county jail, or to deliver to any prisoner therein confined,
or in the custody of any officer of such prison, any weapon, tool, intoxicating
drink, drug, merchandise or food or other article without the consent of the
officer in charge. (Prior code §§ 12-15-1, 12-15-4)
9.08.090: INJURING PUBLIC LIBRARY PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to mark, tear or in any manner injure, deface,
mutilate or destroy any book, pamphlet or other property of the free public
library of the city. It is unlawful for any person to fail to return any book,
pamphlet or other property of the free public library within five (5) days
after the receipt of a notice from the librarian thereof, demanding the return
to the library of such property. (Prior code § 12-8-18)
CHAPTER 9.12
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND MORALS
SECTION:
Article I. Disturbing The Peace
9.12.010: Abusive Language
9.12.020: Failure To Disperse
9.12.030: Obstruction
9.12.040: Noise Or Threats
9.12.050: Disturbance Of Religious Meeting Prohibited
9.12.060: Disorderly House; Violation
9.12.070: Disorderly Conduct; Violation
9.12.080: Fighting
9.12.100: Thieves Frequenting Certain Places; Penalty
9.12.110: Mischievous Conduct
9.12.120: Noises In Certain Areas
9.12.130: Impersonating Party In Distress
9.12.140: Riot
9.12.150: Throwing Missiles
9.12.160: Loitering (Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
9.12.170: Smoking In Public Place Or At Public Meeting Prohibited
9.12.175: Smoking Prohibited In City Parks, Recreational Areas, And Cemeteries,
And Near Mass Gatherings
9.12.180: Expectoration; Littering
Article II. Prostitution And Obscenity
9.12.190: Definitions
9.12.200: Exemptions
9.12.210: Obscene Acts; Preparation And Dissemination Of Obscene Materials
9.12.220: Seizure Of Prohibited Materials; Delivery To City Judge
9.12.230: City Judge To Impound Prohibited Materials; Disposition After Trial
Or Appeal
9.12.240: Destruction Of Prohibited Materials After Final Conviction
9.12.250: Prostitution In Public Vehicles; Violation
9.12.260: Prostitution Unlawful; Violation
Article III. Public Intoxication
9.12.290: Intoxication Prohibited; Violation
9.12.300: Drinking Liquor In Public Places; Violation
ARTICLE I. DISTURBING THE PEACE
9.12.010: ABUSIVE LANGUAGE:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and good order of the city
or lawful assembly by using any obscene language or fighting words within the
limits of the city. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-8-1)
9.12.020: FAILURE TO DISPERSE:
   A.   A person is guilty of a failure to disperse when such person remains at
the scene of a riot, disorderly conduct, disturbing the peace, disorderly
house, disturbing a meeting or an unlawful assembly after having been ordered
to disperse by a peace officer.
   B.   This section shall not apply to a person who attempted to but was
unable to leave the scene of the riot or unlawful assembly.
   C.   Failure to disperse is a class C misdemeanor. (Prior code § 12-8-3)
9.12.030: OBSTRUCTION:
It is unlawful for any person to commit in or upon any public street, public
highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or building, any act or
thing which is in obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use
of property or with any business lawfully conducted by anyone or in or upon or
facing or fronting on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk
or any other public place or building, all of which prevents the free and
uninterrupted, ingress, egress and regress, therein, thereon and thereto.
(Prior code § 12-8-4)
9.12.040: NOISE OR THREATS:
It is unlawful for any person to maliciously or wilfully disturb the peace and
quiet of any neighborhood, family or person, by loud or unusual noise, or by
tumultuous or offensive conduct, or by threatening, traducing, quarreling,
challenging to fight or fighting within the limits of the city. (Prior code §
12-8-5)
9.12.050: DISTURBANCE OF RELIGIOUS MEETING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb at public assembly, congregated for
religious or other lawful purposes, within the limits of the city, by undue
noise, or by offensive, unbecoming or indecent behavior. (Prior code § 12-8-7)
9.12.060: DISORDERLY HOUSE; VIOLATION:
A.   It is unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any drunkenness,
fighting, unlawful gains, riotous or disorderly conduct whatever on such
person's premises.
B.   A violation of this section is a class B misdemeanor. (1989 Code: prior
code § 12-8-8; amd. Ord. 21-01, 1-19-2021)
9.12.070: DISORDERLY CONDUCT; VIOLATION:
   A.   A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if such person:
      1.   Refuses to comply with the lawful order of the police to move from a
public place, or knowingly creates a hazardous or physically offensive
condition, by any act which serves no legitimate purpose; or
      2.   Intending to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or
recklessly creating a risk thereof:
         a.   Engages in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening
behavior, or
         b.   Makes unreasonable noises in a public place, or
         c.   Makes unreasonable noises in a private place which can be heard
in a public place, or
         d.   Obstructs vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   B.   "Public place" for the purpose of this section, means any place to
which the public or a substantial group of the public has access and includes,
but is not limited to, streets, highways and the common areas of schools,
hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, transport facilities and shops.
   C.   Disorderly conduct is a class C misdemeanor if the offense continues
after a request by a person to desist. Otherwise it is an infraction. (Ord. 90-
10 § 1, 1990: prior code § 12-8-9)
9.12.080: FIGHTING:
It is unlawful for two (2) or more persons to engage in fighting, except under
supervision of school authorities. (Prior code § 12-8-11)
9.12.100: THIEVES FREQUENTING CERTAIN PLACES; PENALTY:
If any person shall be charged on oath in the city court with being a
professional or habitual thief, burglar, shoplifter, pickpocket, swindler or
confidence man and the person shall have been arrested by any peace officer at
any railroad depot, church, banking institution, broker's office, place of
public amusement, auction room, fairground, hotel, mercantile establishment,
crowded thoroughfares or any other public place, and if it shall be proven to
the satisfaction of the court that the person was frequenting or attending such
place or places for any unlawful purpose, the person shall be committed to the
county jail for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days, there to be kept at
hard labor. (Prior code § 12-8-13)
9.12.110: MISCHIEVOUS CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any person to break any bottle, or to place or leave any
tacks, nails, broken glass or other like substance upon the streets, alleys or
sidewalks of this city, or to place upon any track or rail over which cars
pass, any cartridges, cap torpedo or any obstruction or explosive thing
whatsoever, or to wilfully, wantonly or maliciously scratch, deface, mar,
break, injure or destroy any property belonging to another. (Prior code § 12-8-
15)
9.12.120: NOISES IN CERTAIN AREAS:
It is unlawful for any person by himself or by the operation of any instrument,
agency or vehicle to make any unnecessary or unseemly noises within two hundred
fifty feet (250') of any portion of the grounds and premises on which is
located a hospital or other institution reserved for the sick, or any time
services are held or any court during the time court is in session. The chief
of police shall place as many signs as the chief of police may deem proper
within or near the zones created, calling attention to the prohibition against
any unnecessary noises within such zones. (Prior code § 12-8-16)
9.12.130: IMPERSONATING PARTY IN DISTRESS:
It is unlawful for any person falsely to put in a call for any office of the
city, representing herself or himself to be in distress or to put in any call
to any officer of the city for or on behalf of any party, falsely represented
to be in distress or in need of assistance of the officers of the city. (Prior
code § 12-8-17)
9.12.140: RIOT:
Any force or violence, disturbing the public peace, or any threat to use such
force or violence by two (2) or more persons acting together and without
authority of law, if accompanied by immediate power or execution, is a riot.
The mayor of the city is authorized to call upon every inhabitant of the city
over the age of twenty one (21) years to aid in suppressing riots and other
disorderly conduct. It is unlawful for any person to engage or participate in
any riot or disorderly conduct. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished accordingly.
(Prior code § 12-8-19)
9.12.150: THROWING MISSILES:
Every person who shall wilfully or carelessly within the limits of this city,
throw or cast stones, snowballs or other missiles so as to injure or deface
property, and without the consent of the owner or owners thereof, or any
missiles whereby any person shall be hit, or any window broken or other
property injured or destroyed or in such manner as to render travel or walking
dangerous, or in such manner as to frighten or annoy any traveler or
pedestrian, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior code § 12-8-20)
9.12.160: LOITERING:
(Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
9.12.170: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACE OR AT PUBLIC MEETING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall smoke in a public place or at a public meeting except
in designated smoking areas.
   B.   This prohibition shall apply also to offices, shops, warehouses,
factories and similar places of employment not usually frequented by the
general public; for such places the board of health may establish rules to
restrict or prohibit smoking in those places of work where the proximity of
workers or the inadequacy of ventilation causes smoke pollution detrimental to
the health or comfort of nonsmoking employees.
   C.   Appropriate smoking areas may be designated by proprietors or other
persons in charge of public places, such as, but not limited to, private
enclosed offices occupied exclusively by smokers even though such offices may
be visited by nonsmokers, but excepting places in which smoking is prohibited
by the fire marshal or by other law, ordinance or regulation.
   D.   Where smoking areas are designated, existing physical barriers and
ventilation systems shall be used to prevent the toxic effects of smoke in
adjacent nonsmoking areas. In the case of public places consisting of a single
room, the provisions of this law shall be considered met if one side of the
room is reserved and posted as a nonsmoking area and the ventilation of the
room is sufficient to prevent the smoke pollution from becoming either a health
hazard or a discomfort to nonsmokers. No public place shall be designated as a
smoking area in its entirety.
   E.   The proprietor or other person in charge of a public place shall make
reasonable efforts to prevent violation of this part in the public place by:
      1.   Conspicuously posting appropriate signs;
      2.   Arranging seating and ventilation to provide a smoke free area.
   F.   "Public place" means enclosed, indoor area used by the general public
or serving as a place of work, including, but not limited to, restaurants,
hospitals, medical or dental clinics, public conveyances, retail stores,
offices and other commercial establishments, nursing homes, auditoriums,
theaters, arenas, meeting rooms and commercial kitchens and buildings
constructed, maintained or otherwise supported by tax revenues in whole or in
part. In addition, enclosed indoor areas where the proprietor posts conspicuous
signs such as "No Smoking" or "Thank You For Not Smoking", or other similar
signs, shall be considered public places.
   G.   "Public meeting" means and includes all meetings open to the public at
large.
   H.   "Smoking" includes, but is not limited to, carrying, holding or in any
manner whatsoever being in control of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or any
other lighted smoking equipment or substance.
   I.   It is an infraction for any person to violate subsections A and B of
this section and any person convicted thereof may be subject to a fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). It shall be a class C misdemeanor
to violate subsection C, D or E or this section and any person convicted
thereof may be subject to a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
or by imprisonment in the county jail for a term not exceeding six (6) months
or by both such fine and imprisonment. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-8-22)
9.12.175: SMOKING PROHIBITED IN CITY PARKS, RECREATIONAL AREAS, AND CEMETERIES,
AND NEAR MASS GATHERINGS:
   A.   Definitions:
      CITY PARK: Means and includes city owned parks and recreational areas,
including, city owned spectator and concession areas, playgrounds, public
squares, cemeteries, athletic fields, zoos and walking and biking trails,
excluding city owned golf courses.
      E-CIGARETTE: Means and includes any electronic oral device that provides
a vapor of nicotine or other substance and which simulates smoking through its
use or through inhalation of the vapor through the device; and includes an oral
device that is composed of a heating element, battery, or electronic circuit
and marketed, manufactured, distributed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-
pipe, or any other product name or descriptor, if the function of the product
meets the definition of an electronic oral device.
      MASS GATHERING: An outdoor assembly of fifty (50) or more people on city
owned property that reasonably can be expected to continue for at least one
hour.
      SMOKE OR SMOKING: Means and includes possession, carrying, or holding a
lighted pipe, cigar, e-cigarette, or cigarette of any kind, or any other
lighted smoking equipment, or the lighting, emitting, or exhaling of smoke of a
pipe, cigar, or cigarette of any kind, or of any other lighted smoking
equipment.
   B.   Prohibitions: Smoking is hereby prohibited:
      1.   In city parks,
      2.   Within twenty five feet (25') of bus stops,
      3.   Within fifty feet (50') of mass gatherings.
A violation of this section is an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed
twenty five dollars ($25.00) but not by imprisonment. Police officers shall
have the discretion to issue a "warning" if they deem it is in the best
interests of the city for the first offense.
   C.   Exceptions: The restrictions of this section are subject to any
applicable state or federal exemptions.
   D.   Posting Of Signs: "No smoking" signs or the international "no smoking"
symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette
enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and
conspicuously posted in every city park. (Ord. 14-84, 2015)
9.12.180: EXPECTORATION; LITTERING:
It is unlawful for any person to expectorate, or throw cigar stumps, cigarette
stumps or quids of tobacco upon the floor of any streetcar, bus or other public
conveyance or public building or upon any paved sidewalk within the limits of
the city. (Prior code § 12-8-10)
ARTICLE II. PROSTITUTION AND OBSCENITY
9.12.190: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
in this section:
KNOWINGLY: To have actual or constructive knowledge of the contents of the
subject matter. A person has constructive knowledge if a reasonable inspection
under the circumstances would have disclosed the nature of the subject matter
and if the failure to inspect is for the purpose of avoiding such disclosure.
OBSCENE: Whether to the average adult person, applying contemporary community
standards, the dominant theme of the material or the conduct taken as a whole
appeals to the prurient interest. The judge or the jury shall be the sole trier
of that which is obscene.
PERSON: Shall not be limited to individuals only but includes public and
private corporations, firms, joint associations, partnerships and the like. The
word "person" as used in this article to apply to a natural person shall apply
equally to the male and female genders.
PRURIENT INTEREST: A shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or excretion,
which goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in description or
representation of such matters and is a matter which is utterly without
redeeming social importance.
WILFULLY: Simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or to omit an act
required in this article. (Prior code §§ 12-10-4, 12-10-8, 12-10-9)
9.12.200: EXEMPTIONS:
This article shall not apply to persons who may possess and distribute obscene
material or participate in the other conduct which is prescribed when such
possession, distribution or participation occurs in the course of bona fide
educational, artistic, scientific, medical or comparable research or study or
in the course of law enforcement activities or in other like circumstances
where the nature of the possession, distribution or participation is not
related to the appeal to the prurient interest, in addition, nothing in this
chapter shall apply to any recognized historical society or museum, the state
law library, any county or city or town law library, the state library, the
public library, and library of any college or university or to any archive or
library under the supervision and control of the state, county, municipality or
other political subdivision, or to any similar organization or institution of
the same class. (Prior code § 12-10-10)
9.12.210: OBSCENE ACTS; PREPARATION AND DISSEMINATION OF OBSCENE MATERIALS:
It is unlawful for any person to either wilfully or knowingly:
   A.   Associate in a lewd, lascivious or obscene manner with any person,
whether married or unmarried, engage in open and gross lewdness, lascivious or
obscene behavior, or make any open, public, indecent or obscene exposure of his
or her person or of his or her private parts, or the person or private parts of
another; or
   B.   Procure, counsel or assist any person to act in a lewd or obscene
manner or make any indecent or obscene exposure of his or her own or any other
person's private parts; or
   C.   Import, write, compose, stereotype, print, design, copy, draw, paint or
otherwise prepare, publish, sell, offer for sale, display, exhibit by machine
or otherwise or distribute any writing, paper, book, picture, drawing,
magazine, pamphlet, print, design, figure, still or motion picture, photograph
or negative thereof, photocopy, engraving, sound recording, card, instrument or
other such article which is obscene or buy, procure, receive or have in her or
his possession any such writing, paper, book, picture, drawing, magazine,
pamphlet, print, design, figure, still or motion picture, photograph or
negative thereof, photocopy, engraving, sound recording, card, instrument or
other article which is obscene, with the intent of selling, exhibiting, loaning
or circulating or with the intent to introduce the same into a family, school
or place of education, or any other place for the purpose of selling,
exhibiting, loaning or circulating; or
   D.   Write, compose or publish any notice or advertisement of any such
writing, paper, book, picture, drawing, magazine, pamphlet, print, design,
figure, still or motion picture, photograph or negative thereof, photocopy,
engraving, sound recording, card, instrument or other article which is obscene,
or any notice or advertisement of any article, prescription or preparation for
producing or facilitating a miscarriage in a manner which appeals to the
prurient interest; or
   E.   Sing or speak an obscene or lewd song, ballad or any other obscene or
lewd words in any public place or in the presence of other persons; or
   F.   Sell or distribute or import, print or publish for the purpose of
selling or distributing to a person under the age of eighteen (18) years, a
book, pamphlet, ballad, printed paper, phonograph record, print, still or
motion picture, figure, image or description or other article which manifestly
tends to corrupt the morals of youths under the age of eighteen (18) years; or
introduce into a family, school or place of education, or buy, procure, receive
or have in his possession any such book, pamphlet, ballad, printed paper,
phonograph record, print, still or motion picture, figure, image or other thing
either for the purpose of sale, exhibition, loan or circulation to a person
under the age of eighteen (18) years or with intent to introduce the same into
a family, school or place of education for such a purpose. In deciding whether
the items tend to corrupt the morals of youth, the test shall be: whether to
the average youth under the age of eighteen (18) years, applying contemporary
community standards, the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole
appeals to the prurient interest;
   G.   Require, as a condition to a sale, allocation, consignment or delivery
for resale of any paper, magazine, book, periodical, publication or other
merchandise, that the purchaser or consignee receive any material which
material is obscene or is believed by the purchaser or consignee to be obscene;
or to deny or threaten to deny a franchise or license, or revoke or threaten to
revoke or impose any penalty, financial or otherwise, by reason of the failure
or refusal of such purchaser or consignee to accept such material or to do such
acts by reason of the return of such material.
   H.   To exhibit or perform any obscene play or other representation. (1989
Code: prior code § 12-10-3)
9.12.220: SEIZURE OF PROHIBITED MATERIALS; DELIVERY TO CITY JUDGE:
Every person who is authorized to arrest any person for a violation of
subsections
9.12.210C, D and F of this chapter is equally authorized to seize any of the
prohibited articles found in possession or under the control of the person so
arrested and to deliver the same to the city judge before whom the person so
arrested is required to be taken. (Prior code § 12-10-5)
9.12.230: CITY JUDGE TO IMPOUND PROHIBITED MATERIALS; DISPOSITION AFTER TRIAL
OR APPEAL:
The city judge to whom any of the prohibited articles are delivered pursuant to
section
9.12.220 of this chapter must upon the examination of the accused, or if the
examination is delayed or prevented, without awaiting such examination,
determine the character of such article and if the city judge believes it to be
obscene or tends to corrupt the morals of the youth, as the case may be, he
must deliver one copy to the city attorney and must at once impound all the
other copies until the defendant is acquitted, the prosecution abandoned, or
the time for an appeal has elapsed, or in the case of an appeal, until the
matter is finally adjudicated by the appropriate appellate court, and then the
city judge shall cause them to be destroyed or returned to the accused, as the
case may be. (Prior code § 12-10-6)
9.12.240: DESTRUCTION OF PROHIBITED MATERIALS AFTER FINAL CONVICTION:
Upon the final conviction of the accused, the city attorney must cause any
writing, paper, book, picture, print, design, figure, still or motion picture,
photograph or negative thereof, photocopy, engraving, sound recording, card,
instrument or other thing which is obscene, or which tends to corrupt the
morals of the youth, in respect whereof the accused stands convicted and which
remains in the possession of and under the control of the city attorney to be
destroyed. (Prior code § 12-10-7)
9.12.250: PROSTITUTION IN PUBLIC VEHICLES; VIOLATION:
   A.   No person shall knowingly transport, offer to transport, or knowingly
aid or assist in transporting any person in, or over, or through the streets,
alleys, boulevards or public highways of the city by means of an automobile or
other vehicle used by the public for hire, for the purpose of prostitution or
for any other unlawful, immoral or lewd purpose.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished accordingly. Penalty provisions
relating to violations of this code are found in title 1, chapter 1.16 of this
code. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-10-12)
9.12.260: PROSTITUTION UNLAWFUL; VIOLATION:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to pursue or advertise in any manner,
their vocation as a prostitute or to be guilty of prostitution within the
limits of the city. Also, it is unlawful for any prostitute to be in or upon
the public streets or any other place in the city. Any person violating any of
the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
   B.   Penalty provisions pertaining to violations of this code are found in
title 1, chapter 1.16 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-10-11)
ARTICLE III. PUBLIC INTOXICATION
9.12.290: INTOXICATION PROHIBITED; VIOLATION:
   A.   A person is guilty of intoxication if such person is under the
influence of any alcoholic beverage , a controlled substance, or any substance
having the property of releasing toxic vapors, to a degree that the person may
endanger herself or himself or another, in a public place or private place
where such person unreasonably disturbs other persons.
   B.   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be guilty of
a class C misdemeanor. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-14-1; amd. Ord. 20-01, 2-18-
2020)
9.12.300: DRINKING LIQUOR IN PUBLIC PLACES; VIOLATION:
   A.   Definitions. As used in this section:
 
ALCOHOLIC   "Beer" and "liquor" as defined in the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Act, Utah Code Ann. §
BEVERAGES:  32B-1-102, or its successor.
OPEN
BOTTLE, CAN A container having within it an alcoholic beverage, which container has been
OR OTHER    opened, its seal broken or the contents of which have been partially consumed.
RECEPTACLE:
               1.   Any street, right of way, sidewalk, alley, publicly owned property or state
            or county road located within the Logan City limits;
               2.   Boarded or abandoned commercial buildings;
UNPERMITTED    3.   Vacant lots;
PUBLIC         4.   Any publicly owned building or publicly owned real property.
PLACE:         5.   "Unpermitted Public Place" shall not mean or include a premises or area
            identified in a license or permit issued by the City or the Utah Department of
            Alcoholic Beverage Control as authorizing the possession or consumption of
            alcoholic beverages, when there is conformance with the applicable license and/or
            permit restrictions.
 
   B.   No person shall open, possess, or consume from an open bottle, can or
other receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage in an unpermitted public
place.
   C.   Penalty. An offense under this section is designated as a class C
misdemeanor. (Ord. 02-31 § 1, 2002: 1989 Code: prior code § 12-14-2; amd. Ord.
20-01, 2-18-2020)
CHAPTER 9.16
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
Article I. Theft
9.16.010: Definitions
9.16.020: Presumptions And Defenses
9.16.030: Evidence
9.16.040: Elements
9.16.050: Theft By Deception
9.16.060: Theft Of Lost Property
9.16.070: Receiving Stolen Property; Duties Of Pawnbrokers (Rep. by Ord. 14-75,
2014)
9.16.080: Theft Of Services
9.16.085: Possession Of Articles From Which Identification Plates Removed;
Class B Misdemeanor
9.16.090: Theft By Person Having Custody Of Property Pursuant To Repair Or
Rental Agreement
9.16.100: Penalty
9.16.110: Citation On Misdemeanor Or Infraction Charge
Article II. Trespass
9.16.120: Criminal Mischief; Violation; Penalty
9.16.130: Picketing Within Fifteen Feet Unlawful
9.16.140: Criminal Trespass; Violation; Penalty
9.16.150: Trespass To Property
9.16.160: Diverting Water Unlawful
9.16.170: Trespass On Fire Equipment
ARTICLE I. THEFT
9.16.010: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article:
DECEPTION: Occurs when a person intentionally:
   A.   Creates or confirms by words or conduct an impression of law or fact
that is false and that the actor does not believe to be true and that is likely
to affect the judgment of another in the transaction; or
   B.   Fails to correct a false impression of law or fact that the actor
previously created or confirmed by words or conduct that is likely to affect
the judgment of another and that the actor does not now believe to be true; or
   C.   Prevents another from acquiring information likely to affect his
judgment in the transaction; or
   D.   Sells or otherwise transfers or encumbers property without disclosing a
lien, security interest, adverse claim or other legal impediment to the
enjoyment of the property, whether the lien, security interest, claim or
impediment is or is not a matter of official record; or
   E.   Promises performance that is likely to affect the judgment of another
in the transaction, which performance the actor does not intend to perform or
knows will not be performed; provided, however, that failure to perform the
promise in issue without other evidence of intent or knowledge is not
sufficient proof that the actor did not intend to perform or knew the promise
would not be performed.
OBTAIN: In relation to property, to bring about a transfer of possession or of
some other legally recognized interest in property, whether to the obtainer or
another; in relation to labor or services, to secure performance thereof; and
in relation to a trade secret, to make any facsimile, replica, photograph or
other reproduction.
OBTAIN OR EXERCISE UNAUTHORIZED CONTROL: Means, but is not necessarily limited
to, conduct heretofore defined or known as common law larceny by trespassory
taking, larceny by conversion, larceny by bailee and embezzlement.
PROPERTY: Anything of value, including real estate, tangible and intangible
personal property, captured or domestic animals and birds, written instruments
or other writings representing or embodying rights concerning real or personal
property, labor, services, or otherwise containing anything of value to the
owner, commodities of a public utility nature such as telecommunications, gas,
electricity, steam or water, and trade secrets, meaning the whole or any
portion of any scientific or technical information, design, process, procedure,
formula or invention which the owner thereof intends to be available only to
persons selected by the owner.
PURPOSE TO DEPRIVE: To have the conscious object:
   A.   To withhold property permanently or for so extended a period or to use
under such circumstances that a substantial portion of its economic value, or
of the use and benefit thereof, would be lost; or
   B.   To restore the property only upon payment of a reward or other
compensation; or
   C.   To dispose of the property under circumstances that make it unlikely
that the owner will recover it. (Prior code § 12-11-1)
9.16.020: PRESUMPTIONS AND DEFENSES:
The following presumption shall be applicable to this article:
   A.   Possession of property recently stolen, when no satisfactory
explanation of such possession is made, shall be deemed prima facie evidence
that the person in possession stole the property.
   B.   It is not defense under this article that the actor has an interest in
the property or service stolen if another person also has an interest that the
actor is not entitled to infringe, provided an interest in property for
purposes of this article shall not include a security interest for the
repayment of a debt or obligation.
   C.   It is a defense under this article that the actor:
      1.   Acted under an honest claim of right to the property or service
involved; or
      2.   Acted in the honest belief that the actor had the right to obtain or
exercise control over the property or service as the actor did; or
      3.   Obtained or exercises control over the property or service honestly
believing that the owner, if present, would have consented. (Prior code § 12-
11-2)
9.16.030: EVIDENCE:
Conduct denominated theft in this article constitutes a single offense
embracing the separate offenses such as those heretofore known as larceny,
larceny by trick, larceny by bailees, embezzlement, false pretense, receiving
stolen property. An accusation of theft may be supported by evidence that it
was committed in any manner specified in sections
9.16.040 through
9.16.080 of this article, subject to the power of the court to ensure a fair
trial by granting a continuance or other appropriate relief where the conduct
of the defense would be prejudiced by lack of fair notice or by surprise.
(Prior code § 12-11-3)
9.16.040: ELEMENTS:
A person commits theft if such person obtains or exercises unauthorized control
over the property of another with a purpose to deprive him or her thereof.
(Prior code § 12-11-4)
9.16.050: THEFT BY DECEPTION:
   A.   A person commits theft if such person obtains or exercises control over
property of another, having a value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less, by
deception and with a purpose to deprive her or him thereof.
   B.   Theft by deception does not occur, however, when there is only falsity
as to matters having no pecuniary significance, or puffing by statements
unlikely to deceive ordinary persons in the group addressed. "Puffing" means an
exaggerated commendation of wares or worth in communications addressed to the
public or to a class or group. (Prior code § 12-11-5)
9.16.060: THEFT OF LOST PROPERTY:
A person commits theft when:
   A.   Such person obtains property of another which the person knows to have
been lost or mislaid, or to have been delivered under a mistake as to the
identity of the recipient or as to the nature or amount of the property,
without taking reasonable measures to return it to the owner; and
   B.   Such person has the purpose to deprive the owner of the property when
the person obtains the property or at any time prior to taking the measures
designated in subsection A of this section. (Prior code § 12-11-6)
9.16.070: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY; DUTIES OF PAWNBROKERS:
(Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
9.16.080: THEFT OF SERVICES:
   A.   A person commits theft if such person obtains services which the person
knows are available only for compensation by deception, threat, force or any
other means designed to avoid the due payment therefor.
   B.   A person commits theft if, having control over the disposition of
services of another, to which such person knows she or he is not entitled, such
person diverts such services to his or her own benefit or to the benefit of
another who the person knows is not entitled thereto.
   C.   As used in this section, "services" includes, but is not necessarily
limited to, labor, professional service, public utility and transportation
services, restaurant, hotel, motel, tourist cabin, rooming house and like
accommodations, the supplying of equipment, tools, vehicles or trailers for
temporary use, telephone or telegraph service, gas, electricity, water or
steam, and the like, admission to entertainment, exhibitions, sporting events
or other events for which a charge is made. (Prior code § 12-11-8)
9.16.085: POSSESSION OF ARTICLES FROM WHICH IDENTIFICATION PLATES REMOVED;
CLASS B MISDEMEANOR:
   A.   Any person who knowingly buys, sells, receives, disposes of, conceals,
or has in his possession any mechanical or electrical device, appliance,
contrivance, material, piece of apparatus or equipment, or any integrated chip
or panel, printed circuit, from which the manufacturer's nameplate, serial
number or any other distinguishing number or identification mark has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered or destroyed, is guilty of class B
misdemeanor, punishable under section
1.16.010 of this code.
   B.   When property described in subsection A of this section comes into the
custody of a peace officer, it shall become subject to Logan City and state of
Utah statutes related to the care, keeping and disposal of stolen or embezzled
property. Such property prior to being disposed of, shall have an
identification mark imbedded, engraved in, or permanently affixed to it.
   C.   This section does not apply to those cases or instances where any of
the changes or alterations enumerated in subsection A of this section have been
customarily made or performed as an established practice in the ordinary and
regular conduct of business, by the original manufacturer, or under specific
authorization from the original manufacturer, or by the legal owner who
possesses reasonable documentation of ownership. (Ord. 89-55 § 1, 1989)
9.16.090: THEFT BY PERSON HAVING CUSTODY OF PROPERTY PURSUANT TO REPAIR OR
RENTAL AGREEMENT:
A person is guilty of theft if:
   A.   Having custody of property having a value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or
less, pursuant to an agreement between himself or herself or another and the
owner thereof whereby the actor or another is to perform for compensation a
specific service for the owner involving the maintenance, repair or use of such
property, such person intentionally uses or operates it, without the consent of
the owner, for the person's own purposes in a manner constituting a gross
deviation from the agreed purpose; or
   B.   Having custody of any property having a value of fifty dollars ($50.00)
or less, pursuant to a rental or lease agreement where it is to be returned in
a specified manner or a specified time, intentionally fails to comply with the
terms of the agreement concerning return so as to render such failure a gross
deviation from the agreement. (Prior code § 12-11-9)
9.16.100: PENALTY:
Theft of property and services as provided in this article shall be punishable
as follows: A term of imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months and/or a fine
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) if the value of the property or
the services stolen is one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less. (1989 Code: prior
code § 12-11-10)
9.16.110: CITATION ON MISDEMEANOR OR INFRACTION CHARGE:
   A.   A city peace officer in lieu of taking a person into custody, or any
city official charged with the enforcement of the city laws, may issue and
deliver a citation requiring any person subject to arrest or prosecution on a
misdemeanor or infraction charge to appear at the court of the magistrate
before whom the person should be taken pursuant to law if the person had been
arrested.
   B.   Any person who receives a citation and who fails to appear on or before
the time and date and at the court specified shall be subject to arrest. The
magistrate may issue a warrant of arrest. (Prior code § 12-11-11)
ARTICLE II. TRESPASS
9.16.120: CRIMINAL MISCHIEF; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   A person commits criminal mischief if:
      1.   Such person intentionally and unlawfully tampers with the property
of another and thereby:
         a.   Recklessly endangers human life, or
         b.   Recklessly causes or threatens a substantial interruption or
impairment of the public utility service; or
      2.   Such person intentionally damages, defaces or destroys the property
of another;
      3.   Such person recklessly or wilfully shoots or propels a missile or
other object at or against a motor vehicle, bus, airplane, boat, locomotive,
train, railroad car or caboose, whether moving or standing.
   B.   Any violation of this section other than subsection A1 of this section,
is punishable by imprisonment in the county jail up to six (6) months and/or a
fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), if the actor's conduct
causes or is intended to cause pecuniary loss in excess of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00). If the actor's conduct causes or is intended to cause
pecuniary loss of less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), then such
conduct shall be punishable by imprisonment not to exceed ninety (90) days or a
fine not to exceed two hundred ninety nine dollars ($299.00) or by both such
fine and imprisonment. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-13-1)
9.16.130: PICKETING WITHIN FIFTEEN FEET UNLAWFUL:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, persons or combination of persons
picketing within the corporate limits of the city to patrol or picket within
fifteen feet (15') of the place of business being picketed.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person or persons to intercept, or persuade or
otherwise urge any other person from patronizing any duly regularly licensed
business. (Prior code § 12-13-2)
9.16.140: CRIMINAL TRESPASS; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   For purposes of this section "enter" means intrusion of the entire
body.
   B.   A person is guilty of criminal trespass, if under circumstances not
amounting to burglary as defined in Utah Code Annotated 76-6-202, 76-6-203 and
76-6-204, 1953:
      1.   Such person enters or remains unlawfully on property and:
         a.   Intends to cause annoyance or injury to any person thereon or
damage to any property thereon; or
         b.   Intends to commit any crime, other than theft or a felony;
         c.   Is reckless as to whether the person's presence will cause fear
for the safety of another.
      2.   Knowing his or her presence is unlawful, such person enters or
remains on property as to which notice against entering is given by:
         a.   Personal communication to the actor by the owner or someone with
apparent authority to act for the owner; or
         b.   Fencing or other enclosure obviously designed to exclude
intruders; or
         c.   Posting of signs reasonably likely to come to the attention of
intruders.
   C.   A violation of subsection B1 of this section is a class C misdemeanor
unless it was committed in a dwelling, in which event it is a class B
misdemeanor. A violation of subsection B2 of this section is an infraction.
   D.   It is a defense to prosecution under this section:
      1.   That the property was open to public when the actor entered or
remained; and
      2.   The actor's conduct did not substantially interfere with the owner's
use of the property. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-13-3)
9.16.150: TRESPASS TO PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person or persons to take or use any animal, vehicle,
machine or other personal property, without the consent of the owner or owners
thereof, or any person or persons having charge of such property. (Prior code §
12-13-4)
9.16.160: DIVERTING WATER UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person wrongfully to turn out of any watercourse or
ditch the water which any person is entitled to have flow therein. (Prior code
§ 12-13-5)
9.16.170: TRESPASS ON FIRE EQUIPMENT:
It is unlawful for any person driving or having charge of any vehicle or animal
to permit the same to obstruct, impede or otherwise interfere with the progress
or working of any such fire engine or other movable apparatus of the fire
department while the same is going to or remaining at a fire, or to cut, mark
or otherwise deface any property of the fire department. It is unlawful for any
person to give any false alarm or to break, destroy or in any manner interfere
with any fire alarm register or any wire, pole or apparatus connected
therewith, or knowingly to send any false alarm from or through or by a
telephone, messenger, service box or other apparatus. (Prior code § 12-13-6)
CHAPTER 9.20
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
SECTION:
9.20.010: Assault
9.20.020: Insulting Persons (Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
9.20.030: Emergency Communication Interference
9.20.010: ASSAULT:
   A.   "Assault" is:
      1.   An attempt, with unlawful force or violence, to do bodily injury to
another; or
      2.   A threat, accompanied by a show of immediate force or violence, to
do bodily injury to another.
   B.   It is unlawful for a person to commit an assault in the city. (Prior
code § 12-8-2)
9.20.020: INSULTING PERSONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
9.20.030: EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION INTERFERENCE:
   A.   As used in this section:
      COMMUNICATION DEVICE OR LINE: Any device or line capable of transmitting
communications by wire, radio, telephone electromagnetic, photo electronic
optical system.
      DISABLE: To incapacitate or make powerless.
      EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE: Includes law enforcement, medical assistance and
other emergency aid.
   B.   A person is guilty of emergency communication interference who, with an
intent to prohibit, interrupt or interfere with another person's use of a
communication device or line, knowingly and intentionally destroys, disables,
damages or disrupts a communication device or line used or attempting to be
used by another person to contact emergency assistance.
   C.   Emergency communication interference is a class B misdemeanor. (Ord.
97-71 § 1, 1997)
CHAPTER 9.24
OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
SECTION:
9.24.010: Persons Under The Age Of Eighteen Years; Selling To Secondhand And
Junk Stores (Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
9.24.020: Persons Under The Age Of Twenty One Years; In Places Where Beer Is
Sold Or Offered For Sale For Consumption On The Premises
9.24.030: Persons Under The Age Of Eighteen Years; Tattooing; Body Piercing
9.24.040: Persons Under The Age Of Nineteen Years; Sale Of Tobacco To
9.24.050: Persons Under The Age Of Nineteen Years; Purchasing, Accepting Or
Having In Possession Tobacco
9.24.060: Persons Under The Age Of Twenty One Years; Purchasing, Accepting Or
Having In Possession Alcoholic Beverages Or Drugs
9.24.070: Curfew For Minors
9.24.080: Persons Under The Age Of Twenty One Years; Catching Vehicles
9.24.090: Unlawful To Buy From Persons Under The Age Of Twenty One Years
9.24.100: Revolvers, Sale To Persons Under The Age Of Eighteen Years
9.24.110: Furnishing Intoxicating Liquors Or Narcotics To Persons Under The Age
Of Twenty One Years
9.24.120: Exposing Minors To Harmful Materials
9.24.130: Children In Vehicles
9.24.010: PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN YEARS; SELLING TO SECONDHAND AND
JUNK STORES:
(Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
9.24.020: PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY ONE YEARS; IN PLACES WHERE BEER IS
SOLD OR OFFERED FOR SALE FOR CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES:
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner, keeper, manager, licensee or employee in
any establishment or place where beer is sold or offered for sale for
consumption on the premises, to permit or allow any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to visit or frequent or remain in such establishment
where beer is sold or offered for sale for consumption on the premises.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
visit or frequent or remain in such establishment where beer is sold or offered
for sale for consumption on the premises.
   C.   Establishments which qualify and maintain a current state of Utah
restaurant liquor permit along with the required Logan City business license
are exempt from this section. (Ord. 91-10 § 1, 1991: prior code § 12-7-2)
9.24.030: PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN YEARS; TATTOOING; BODY PIERCING:
   A.   No person shall tattoo any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   No person shall pierce any body part of a person under the age of
eighteen (18) without the permission of the minor's parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. 96-15 § 1, 1996: prior code 12-7-3)
9.24.040: PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF NINETEEN YEARS; SALE OF TOBACCO TO:
It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish any cigar, cigarette or
tobacco in any form to any person under nineteen (19) years of age. (Prior code
§ 12-7-4)
9.24.050: PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF NINETEEN YEARS; PURCHASING, ACCEPTING OR
HAVING IN POSSESSION TOBACCO:
It is unlawful for any person under the age of nineteen (19) years to purchase,
accept or have in such person's possession any cigar, cigarette or tobacco in
any form. (Prior code § 12-7-5)
9.24.060: PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY ONE YEARS; PURCHASING, ACCEPTING OR
HAVING IN POSSESSION ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES OR DRUGS:
It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
purchase, accept or have in such person's possession in any form any alcoholic
beverage (as defined in section
5.10.040 of this code), opium, LSD-25 (which means any substance identified
chemically as Nn diethyl-Lysergamide, Lysergic acid, d-Lysergic acid,
diethylalidetartrate C20H25N3), coca leaves, isonipecarne, anidone, idonidone,
marijuana, kep-bemidone, cannabis or any other narcotic drug. (Prior code § 12-
7-6)
9.24.070: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   A.   Definitions: In this section:
      COMPULSORY SCHOOL AGE MINOR: A person between six (6) and eighteen (18)
years of age that is not exempted and must be attending a public or regularly
established private school during the school year of the district in which the
minor resides pursuant to Utah compulsory education requirements, Utah Code
Annotated 53A-11-101 to -106.
      CURFEW HOURS:
      A.   Ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday until five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on the following day; and
      B.   One minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. until five o'clock (5:
00) A.M. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN:
      A.   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
      MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
      OPEN CAMPUS: When a compulsory school age minor is allowed by school
officials to leave school for lunch purposes.
      OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT: A person who is:
      A.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person;
or
      B.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common area of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
public transit buses and property, and shops.
      REMAIN: To:
      A.   Linger or stay; or
      B.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
      TRUANCY HOURS: Those hours in which a compulsory school age youth should
be attending school in the district or jurisdiction in which the student
attends school.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      2.   A compulsory school age minor commits an offense if she or he
remains in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the
city during truancy hours.
      3.   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours; or if a parent or guardian knowingly permits or by insufficient
control allows, a compulsory school age minor to remain in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during truancy hours.
      4.   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours; or if she or he knowingly allows a
compulsory school age minor to remain upon the premises of the establishment
during truancy hours.
   C.   Defenses:
      1.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this section
that the minor was:
         a.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         b.   On an errand at the discretion of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         c.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate or intrastate travel
with permission of the minor's parent or guardian;
         d.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         e.   Involved in an emergency;
         f.   Following school policy regarding open campus for lunch;
         g.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
         h.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         i.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         j.   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      2.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B4 of this section
that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
police department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
policy officer ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
subsection C of this section is present.
   E.   Penalties: A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty
of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the violation
is committed, continued, or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 98-66
§ 2, 1998: Ord. 97-73 § 2, 1997)
9.24.080: PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY ONE YEARS; CATCHING VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to get on
or catch hold of, or race alongside of, or in front of, or attempt to get on,
or catch hold of any street railway car, or any railroad car or locomotive, or
any wagon, buggy, automobile, sleigh or other vehicle while the same is in
motion. It is unlawful for any person to permit any such person to do any of
the acts herein prohibited. (Prior code § 12-7-8)
9.24.090: UNLAWFUL TO BUY FROM PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY ONE YEARS:
It is unlawful for any person to purchase, trade or receive any motor vehicle
accessories or parts from persons under the age of twenty one (21) years unless
such person has the written consent of her or his parents or legal guardian.
(Prior code § 12-7-9)
9.24.100: REVOLVERS, SALE TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN YEARS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to exchange with, buy from
or sell to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years any gun, pistol or
revolver; or to show or display any pistol or revolver in any window or
showcase in this city. (Prior code § 12-7-10)
9.24.110: FURNISHING INTOXICATING LIQUORS OR NARCOTICS TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE
OF TWENTY ONE YEARS:
It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish to any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years in any form any alcoholic beverage as defined in
section
5.10.040 of this code, opium, LSD-25 (which means any substance identified
chemically as Nn diethyl-Lysergamide, Lysergic acid, d-Lysergic acid diethylal-
idetartrate C20H25N3), coca leaves, isonipecarne, anidone, isonidone,
marijuana, kep-bemidone, cannabis or any other narcotic drug or to have any of
the aforementioned narcotics or alcoholic beverages in such person's possession
for the purpose of selling, giving or furnishing the same to persons under the
age of twenty one (21) years, unless such person is a licensed pharmacist or
physician. Sales of prescription drugs authorized by federal or state narcotic
laws are exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (Prior code § 12-7-11)
9.24.120: EXPOSING MINORS TO HARMFUL MATERIALS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
      HARMFUL TO MINORS: That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sadomasochistic
abuse, when it:
      A.   Predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid interest
of minors; and
      B.   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community
as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors; and
      C.   Is utterly without redeeming social importance for minors.
      KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
grounds for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry of both:
      A.   The character and content of any material described herein which is
reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
      B.   The age of the minor; provided, however, that an honest mistake
shall constitute an excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a
reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
      MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
      NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below the
top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
      SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE: Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad
in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being
fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so
clothed.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT: Acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse
or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area,
buttocks or, if such person be a female, breast.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT: The condition of human male or female genitals when in
a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   B.   Knowingly Sell Or Loan For Monetary Consideration: It is unlawful for
any person knowingly to sell or loan for monetary consideration to a minor:
      1.   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film or
similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human body
which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse and which is
harmful to minors; or
      2.   Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter, however reproduced, or
sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in subsection B1 of this
section, or explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of
sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse and which, taken as
a whole, is harmful to minors.
   C.   Knowingly Exhibit For Monetary Consideration: It is unlawful for any
person knowingly to exhibit for a monetary consideration to a minor or
knowingly to sell to a minor an admission ticket or pass or knowingly to admit
a minor for a monetary consideration to premises whereon there is exhibited, a
motion picture, show or other presentation which, in whole or in part, depicts
nudity, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse and which is harmful to others.
(Prior code § 12-7-12)
9.24.130: CHILDREN IN VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person having in such person's care, control or under
such person's guidance any minor child under six (6) years of age to at any
time lock or confine, or suffer to be locked or confined, or left unattended
even though not locked, or confined in any automobile, bus or other vehicle or
trailer where parking or drive-in facilities are offered to the public within
the city, for a period of time exceeding ten (10) minutes. A child is
unattended within the meaning of this section if the oldest person with the
child is a person under the age of twelve (12) years. (Prior code § 12-7-13;
amd. Ord. 20-28, 10-6-2020)
CHAPTER 9.28
WEAPONS
SECTION:
9.28.010: Discharging Weapons
9.28.020: Carrying Concealed Weapons (Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.030: Selling Of Switchblade Knives Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 12-32, 2012)
9.28.040: Possession Of Dangerous Or Deadly Weapons (Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1,
2009)
9.28.050: Exception For Specific Premises
9.28.060: Exception For Authorized Officials
9.28.070: Display And Sale Of Specified Weapons
9.28.080: Sales To Intoxicated Persons And Minors
9.28.090: Records Required (Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.100: Time Of Recordation (Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.110: Report To Chief Of Police (Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.120: Forfeitures Of Weapons (Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.130: Persons Convicted Of A Felony (Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.140: Report Of Treatment Of Wounds
9.28.150: Possession Of Burglar's Tools
9.28.160: Carrying Loaded Firearms In Vehicle Or On Street; Violation; Penalty
(Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.170: Possession Of Graffiti Materials; Violation; Penalty
9.28.010: DISCHARGING WEAPONS:
It is unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm within the limits of the
city, except in defense of person or property or in the case of any peace
officer or city employee in the discharge of such person's duty. (Ord. 09-61 §
1, 2009)
9.28.020: CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.030: SELLING OF SWITCHBLADE KNIVES PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 12-32, 2012)
9.28.040: POSSESSION OF DANGEROUS OR DEADLY WEAPONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.050: EXCEPTION FOR SPECIFIC PREMISES:
The prohibition of section
9.28.010 of this chapter shall not apply to licensed shooting ranges or
agricultural zoned lands west of 1600 West within the limits of Logan City as
to owners of said lands or those on said lands with express permission of the
owner as to the discharging of shotguns only using six (6) chill shot or
smaller. (Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.060: EXCEPTION FOR AUTHORIZED OFFICIALS:
The prohibition of this chapter shall not be construed to forbid United States
marshal, sheriffs, constables and their deputies or any regular, special or
official police officer, or any other law enforcement officer from carrying or
wearing such weapons as shall be necessary in the proper discharge of their
duties. (Ord. 91-4 § 2, 1991: prior code § 12-12-7)
9.28.070: DISPLAY AND SALE OF SPECIFIED WEAPONS:
No pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or other person engaged in business in the
city shall display or place on exhibition in any show window or any other
window facing upon a street any brass or metal knuckles, club loaded with lead
or other weight or any blackjack or billy club. (Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.080: SALES TO INTOXICATED PERSONS AND MINORS:
No person in the city shall purchase from, or sell, loan or furnish any weapon
in which any explosive substance can be used to any person under the influence
of alcohol or any narcotic drug, stimulant or depressant or to any person in a
condition of agitation and excitability or to a minor under the age of eighteen
(18) years of age. (Prior code § 12-12-9)
9.28.090: RECORDS REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.100: TIME OF RECORDATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.110: REPORT TO CHIEF OF POLICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.120: FORFEITURES OF WEAPONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.130: PERSONS CONVICTED OF A FELONY:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.140: REPORT OF TREATMENT OF WOUNDS:
Every physician or surgeon duly admitted to the practice of medicine or surgery
in the state, whenever she or he shall treat any person in the city for a wound
inflicted by a dangerous or deadly weapon of any kind, shall notify the city
police department within one hour of the time when he or she renders such
professional service or is called upon to render the same. (Prior code § 12-12-
15)
9.28.150: POSSESSION OF BURGLAR'S TOOLS:
No person in the limits of the city shall possess any nippers, known as
burglar's nippers, any pick lock, skeleton key, key to be used with bit or
bits, jimmy or any other burglar's instruments or tools of whatever kind or
description, unless a description of the instrument and the purpose for which
it is retained and the name and address of the person in possession is given to
the police department. (Prior code § 12-12-16)
9.28.160: CARRYING LOADED FIREARMS IN VEHICLE OR ON STREET; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-61 § 1, 2009)
9.28.170: POSSESSION OF GRAFFITI MATERIALS; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   For purposes of this section "graffiti materials" means any paint,
spray paint, broad tipped marking pen (a pen with a tip that exceeds 1/4 inch
in width), glass cutting tool, glass etching tool, or any other articles
adapted, designed or commonly used for committing or facilitating the
commission of an offense involving damaging, defacing, or destroying public or
private property.
   B.   A person is guilty of possession of graffiti materials if:
      1.   Any person possesses these materials while involved in the
commission of, or in the attempt to commit, a criminal mischief.
      2.   Any person that has in his or her possession any graffiti material
while in any public park, playground, swimming pool, recreational facility,
underpass, bridge abutment, storm drain, or other similar type of
infrastructure, owned by or within the city of Logan.
      3.   Any person under the age of eighteen (18) possesses these materials
while on any private property unless the owner, agent, manager, or person in
possession of the property knows of the minor's possession, and has consented
to the minor's possession while on his or her property.
   C.   A violation of this section is a class B misdemeanor.
   D.   It is a defense to prosecution under this section if:
      1.   The person is within their own home.
      2.   The person is an authorized employee, agent or contractor of the
city of Logan.
      3.   The minor is in the presence of a parent or legal guardian.
      4.   The minor is at their place of employment and under the direction of
their immediate supervisor.
      5.   The minor is at school and under the direction of a school employee.
(Ord. 06-60 § 1, 2006)
CHAPTER 9.30
HUNTING
SECTION:
9.30.010: Definitions
9.30.020: Hunting Prohibited
9.30.030: Violation
9.30.040: Exception
9.30.010: DEFINITIONS:
"Hunt" means to pursue with the intent to drive, capture, shoot or kill any
bird, reptile, fish or mammal. (Ord. 90-11 § 1, 1990)
9.30.020: HUNTING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to hunt within the limits of Logan City. (Ord.
90-11 § 1, 1990)
9.30.030: VIOLATION:
Every person who hunts within the limits of Logan City is guilty of a class B
misdemeanor. (Ord. 90-11 § 1, 1990)
9.30.040: EXCEPTION:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to those persons who are
lawfully fishing upon open waters within the limits of Logan City or those
federal, state and local law enforcement officers and those persons under this
authorization and direction who are charged with the responsibility of animal
control and wildlife management within the scope of their employment, or those
persons who fall under the exception granted by section
9.28.050 of this title to owners of agricultural lands. (Ord. 90-11 § 1, 1990)
CHAPTER 9.32
GAMBLING AND GAMING
SECTION:
9.32.010: Gaming Unlawful
9.32.020: Playing Or Operating Games
9.32.030: Wagering
9.32.040: Keeping Poolrooms
9.32.050: Keeping Certain Machines
9.32.060: Operating Slot Machines
9.32.070: Keeping Or Renting Gambling Machines
9.32.080: Conducting Lottery
9.32.090: Permitted Others To Play Or Operate; Seizure Of Device
9.32.100: Winning Fraudulently Punishable As Larceny
9.32.110: Gambling House
9.32.120: Violation
9.32.010: GAMING UNLAWFUL:
All gambling and gaming of every kind and description by playing at cards,
dice, faro, roulette, keno, poker, slot machines, devices known as trades
machines or any like machines or devices by whatever name known, or any
contrivance or device by or with which money, merchandise or anything of value
may be staked, bet, hazarded, won or lost, upon chance, or at any game of skill
or endurance of men or animals by means of bookmaking, pools, turf exchanges or
other devices, for money or other property or thing of value within the city is
declared unlawful. (Prior code § 12-2-1)
9.32.020: PLAYING OR OPERATING GAMES:
It is unlawful for any person to play, stake, wager or bet any money, property
or thing of value at any game, scheme or upon any slot machines or device
prohibited by this chapter or to own, conduct, keep or carry on any such game,
scheme, slot machine or device, either as owner, dealer, operator, agent or
employee. (Prior code § 12-2-2)
9.32.030: WAGERING:
It is unlawful for any person to bet or wager money or anything of value on the
result of skill or endurance of persons or animals by means of bookmaking,
pools or other devices in any place commonly known as a turf exchange or where
pool selling or bookmaking for the purpose of enabling bets and wagers for
money or things of value on such races or contest be made, had or received, is
conducted and carried on. (Prior code § 12-2-3)
9.32.040: KEEPING POOLROOMS:
It is unlawful for any person to conduct, keep, carry on or maintain by himself
or his agents or employees, any turf exchange, poolroom or other place, by
whatever name known, where bets or wagers on the result of any horserace,
wherever run, or of any contest of skill or endurance of persons or animals,
wherever made or had, are or may be made, received or paid. (Prior code § 12-2-
4)
9.32.050: KEEPING CERTAIN MACHINES:
It is unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any slot machine or trade
machine or any like machine or device for the purpose of suffering or
permitting other persons to play at or with the same for money or merchandise
upon game of chance. (Prior code § 12-2-5)
9.32.060: OPERATING SLOT MACHINES:
It is unlawful for any person to operate within the limits of the city, any
device known or designated as a slot machine or any other device to receive any
coin or other money and which is played on the game of chance. (Prior code §
12-2-6)
9.32.070: KEEPING OR RENTING GAMBLING MACHINES:
It is unlawful for any person, either as owner, lessee, agent, employee,
mortgagee, or otherwise to operate, keep, maintain, rent, use or conduct within
the city any clock, tape, slot, trades or card machines or any other machine,
contrivance or device upon which money is staked or hazarded upon chance, or
upon the result of the action of which, money or any commodity or merchandise,
or any other article or thing of value is staked, bet, hazarded, won or lost
upon chance. (Prior code § 12-2-7)
9.32.080: CONDUCTING LOTTERY:
It is unlawful for any person, either as owner, lessee, agent, employee,
mortgagee or otherwise to propose, contrive, set up, open, operate, maintain,
conduct, hold, draw or carry on within the limits of the city any lottery, gift
enterprise, raffle or similar scheme, by whatever name the same may be known,
for the disposal or distribution of property, money or other valuable thing, in
whole or in part by lot or chance, among persons who have paid any money or
given anything of value or performed any service therefor or who have agreed to
pay any money or to give anything of value or to perform any service for the
chance, privilege or opportunity of obtaining such property, money or other
valuable thing, or a portion of it, or for any share or interest therein upon
any agreement, understanding, promise or expectation that it is to be
distributed or disposed of in whole or in part by lot or chance among such
persons. (Prior code § 12-2-8)
9.32.090: PERMITTING OTHERS TO PLAY OR OPERATE; SEIZURE OF DEVICE:
It is unlawful for any person, whether as owner, operator, agent or employee,
to permit any minor child or any other person to play or operate any roulette,
slot machine or any like machine, contrivance or device, on or by or with which
money, merchandise or anything of value is staked, hazarded, won or lost upon
any scheme, game or chance. The fact that such slot machine scheme or device is
what is known as a trade machine or pays some article of value with or for each
play of chance shall be immaterial. Any violation of this section shall be
deemed a misdemeanor. The chief of police is authorized and directed to
forthwith take into the chief of police's possession and retain any slot
machine or other device prohibited by this chapter and which is held, or
operated or permitted to be operated in violation of the provisions of this
chapter. (Prior code § 12-2-9)
9.32.100: WINNING FRAUDULENTLY PUNISHABLE AS LARCENY:
Every person who, by any practice, cheat or device, or false pretense
whatsoever, while playing at any game of chance, or while bearing any share in
wagers played for, or while betting on sides or hands of such play, wins or
acquires to himself or herself or another any sum of money or valuable thing,
within the corporate limits of the city, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior
code § 12-2-10)
9.32.110: GAMBLING HOUSE:
It is unlawful for any person to conduct, keep or maintain a house, building,
room or other place where any of the games or schemes prohibited in this
chapter are carried on, conducted or operated. It is unlawful for any person
knowingly to permit or suffer any of the games or schemes declared unlawful in
this chapter to be carried on, or kept, maintained or operated by such person
in whole or in part, or by her or him let or leased to any other person. (Prior
code § 12-2-11)
9.32.120: VIOLATION:
Every person who deals, plays or carries on, opens or causes to be opened, or
who conducts, either as owner or employee, whether for hire, or not, any game
of faro, monte, roulette, lansquenet, rouge et noir, rondo or any game played
with cards, dice or any other device for money, checks, credit or any other
representative of value within the corporate limits of the city, is guilty of
gaming, and every person who plays or bets at or against any of the prohibited
games is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior code § 12-2-12)
CHAPTER 9.36
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
9.36.010: Unlawful To Fly Closer Than One Thousand Feet; Violation
9.36.020: Radio Broadcast Or Reception Interference
9.36.030: Radio Loudspeaker Permit
9.36.040: Violation; Penalty
9.36.010: UNLAWFUL TO FLY CLOSER THAN ONE THOUSAND FEET; VIOLATION:
   A.   It is unlawful for any operator of any airplane to fly or operate the
same closer than one thousand feet (1,000') to the ground surface within the
corporate limits of the city, or to do any "stunt" or other dangerous flying
within the corporate limits.
   B.   Any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor. (1989 Code: prior
code § 12-16-1)
9.36.020: RADIO BROADCAST OR RECEPTION INTERFERENCE:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate, use or maintain
in the city any apparatus generating or causing high frequency oscillations or
any electrical equipment which, when used, will cause electrical interference
or disturbance with radio or television broadcast transmitting or receiving
apparatus, except this section shall not apply to radio stations, either
broadcast, commercial or amateur, which are licensed by the federal government,
and/or who are employed in the interstate communication. (Prior code § 12-16-2)
9.36.030: RADIO LOUDSPEAKER PERMIT:
It is unlawful within the corporate limits of the city for any person to
maintain, operate, connect or suffer or permit to be maintained, operated or
connected calliope or radio apparatus sound device, or any talking machine, or
loudspeaker attached thereto in such a manner that the loudspeaker or amplifier
shall cause the sound from such radio apparatus or sound device or talking
machine to be projected directly therefrom outside of any building, vehicle or
out of doors; provided, that the mayor may grant a permit to so broadcast any
events or happenings of public interest. Every person desiring a permit to so
broadcast shall make application to the city recorder and shall, with his
application, file a statement showing the place where he proposes to broadcast,
the times and probable duration, and the nature, topics or titles of the
broadcast. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-16-3)
9.36.040: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-1-3)
CHAPTER 9.38
PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS
SECTION:
9.38.010: Definitions
9.38.020: Initial Police Responses To Parties
9.38.030: Subsequent Police Responses To Parties, Gatherings Or Events;
Liability
9.38.040: Recovery Of Actual Costs
9.38.050: Costs; Collection
9.38.060: Chapter Not To Preclude Other Appropriate Action
9.38.070: Appeal
9.38.010: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, phrases and terms as used in this chapter shall have the
meanings for this chapter as indicated below:
HOST: A. The person having an ownership or leasehold interest in the premises
where the party, gathering or event is located; and/or
   B.   A person who resides at the location or occupies in any capacity,
whether for personal or business purposes, the property where the party,
gathering or event takes place; and/or
   C.   The person in charge of the premises; and/or
   D.   The person who organized the event; and/or
   E.   The person who gave permission to hold the party on the premises.
   F.   If the party is hosted by an organization, either incorporated or
unincorporated, the term "host" shall include the officers of the organization.
   G.   In the event the "host" is a minor under eighteen (18) years of age,
the term "host" shall include the parent or parents or legal guardian of the
minor, whether or not they are present at the site.
PARTY, GATHERING OR EVENT: Three (3) or more people who have assembled or are
assembling for a social activity where alcoholic beverages have been or are
being consumed or substances regulated by the Utah controlled substances act
used by any person at the party, or where the noise from the party makes a
noise disturbance prohibited by chapter 8.16 of this code.
SERVICES FEE: A civil penalty imposed which equals the cost to the city of any
special security assignment and shall include, but is not limited to, salaries
of police officers while responding to or remaining at the party, gathering or
event; the pro rata cost of equipment; the cost of repairing city equipment and
property damaged while responding to the gathering; the cost of any medical
treatment or disability, sick leave or other related costs of police officers
injured while responding to the party or gathering, regardless of fault; costs
of collection and the cost of reasonable attorney fees. It is determined the
equitable minimum service fee currently is one hundred dollars ($100.00). If
paid or appealed within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice, the amount
shall be reduced by the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00); if paid within thirty
(30) days of receipt of the notice the amount shall be reduced by the sum of
twenty five dollars ($25.00).
SPECIAL SECURITY ASSIGNMENT: The assignment of police officers, services and
equipment during a second or subsequent response to the party, gathering or
event after the distribution of a written notice to the host or person(s) who
are identified as being in charge of the party in the absence of the host, that
a fee may be imposed for costs incurred by the city for any subsequent police
response. (Ord. 91-3 § 1, 1991)
9.38.020: INITIAL POLICE RESPONSES TO PARTIES:
When any police officer responds to any party, gathering or event in response
to allegations that activities or noise may be in violation of the law, and if
there is probable cause to believe the activities or noise are in violation of
the law, the police officer, in addition to any other action the situation
requires, shall issue a written notice to the host. The notice shall inform the
host(s) that a subsequent response to that same location or address, within a
thirty (30) day period, shall be deemed a special security assignment and that
the host(s) may be liable for the "services fee" as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 91-3 § 1, 1991)
9.38.030: SUBSEQUENT POLICE RESPONSES TO PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS;
LIABILITY:
If, after a written notice is issued pursuant to section
9.38.020 of this chapter there is a subsequent police response to the same
location or address within a thirty (30) day period, such response shall be
deemed a special security assignment. The host(s), as defined in this chapter,
shall be jointly and severally liable for the services fee, as defined in this
chapter. The officer shall issue a second notice by giving it to the host(s) or
by leaving it in a conspicuous place in the premises where the party is being
held if the host(s) is/are not available. (Ord. 91-3 § 1, 1991)
9.38.040: RECOVERY OF ACTUAL COSTS:
In addition to the civil penalty, the city reserves the right to seek
reimbursement for actual costs which exceed the civil penalty, through other
legal theories, remedies or procedures. (Ord. 91-3 § 1, 1991)
9.38.050: COSTS; COLLECTION:
The chief of police shall notify the city treasurer in writing of the
performance of a special security assignment, of the name and address of the
responsible person(s), the date and time of the incident, services performed,
costs thereof and such other information as may be required. The city treasurer
shall thereafter take action to collect the amount due. (Ord. 91-3 § 1, 1991)
9.38.060: CHAPTER NOT TO PRECLUDE OTHER APPROPRIATE ACTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the arrest and/or
citation of violators of the state penal code or other regulations, ordinances
or laws, either in the first visit or subsequent visits. (Ord. 91-3 § 1, 1991)
9.38.070: APPEAL:
   A.   Right And Time To Appeal: A host who has been assessed a service fee
may appeal within ten (10) days of receiving the notice. No appeal shall be
allowed after ten (10) days.
   B.   Manner Of Making Appeal: A person may appeal the special service
assignment to a hearing officer appointed by the mayor. The appeal may be made
by appearing before the hearing officer during regularly scheduled hours. (Ord.
91-3 § 1, 1991)
CHAPTER 9.40
VANDALISM
SECTION:
9.40.010: Fees For Repair Of Intentional Property Damage
9.40.020: Repair Fee Defined; Amounts Designated
9.40.030: Incident Reports
9.40.040: Chapter Not To Preclude Other Appropriate Action
9.40.050: Appeals
9.40.010: FEES FOR REPAIR OF INTENTIONAL PROPERTY DAMAGE:
Any person who intentionally, wilfully or recklessly damages, defaces or
destroys any property belonging to the city shall be subject to a repair fee
expended by the city to repair or replace the damaged, defaced or destroyed
property. (Ord. 92-56 § 1, 1992)
9.40.020: REPAIR FEE DEFINED; AMOUNTS DESIGNATED:
"Repair fee", as used in this chapter, means all costs to the city to repair or
replace the damaged, defaced or destroyed property. This repair fee includes,
but is not necessarily limited to, salaries of city officers while responding
to or repairing or replacing; the prorated cost of equipment used; the cost of
responding to or repairing or replacing the damaged city property; the cost of
any medical treatment or disability, sick leave or other related costs of city
officers injured while responding to the complaint or in repairing or
replacing; costs of collection and the cost of reasonable attorney fees. It is
determined that the equitable minimum repair fee currently is one hundred
dollars ($100.00). If paid or appealed within ten (10) days of receipt of the
notice, the amount shall be reduced by the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00); if
paid within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice, the amount shall be
reduced by the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 92-56 § 1, 1992)
9.40.030: INCIDENT REPORTS:
The chief of police and any other department heads shall notify the city
treasurer in writing of the name and address of the responsible person(s), the
date and time of the incident, services performed, the cost thereof, and such
other information as may be required. The city treasurer shall thereafter take
action to collect the amount due. (Ord. 92-56 § 1, 1992)
9.40.040: CHAPTER NOT TO PRECLUDE OTHER APPROPRIATE ACTION:
Nothing in the chapter shall be construed to prevent the arrest and/or citation
of violators of the state penal code or other regulations, ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 92-56 § 1, 1992)
9.40.050: APPEALS:
   A.   Right And Time To Appeal: A person who has been assessed a repair fee
may appeal within ten (10) days of receiving the notice. No appeal shall be
allowed after ten (10) days.
   B.   Manner Of Taking Appeal: A person may appeal the repair fee to a
hearing officer appointed by the mayor. The appeal may be made by appearing
before the hearing officer during regularly scheduled hours. (Ord. 92-56 § 1,
1992)
TITLE 10
VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 10.04
STATUTES ADOPTED
(Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
CHAPTER 10.08
TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10.08.010: Record Keeping
10.08.020: Traffic Engineer Established
10.08.030: Traffic Engineer; Duties Generally
10.08.040: Traffic Division Established
10.08.050: Traffic Division; Duties Generally
10.08.060: Traffic Division Duties; Investigating Accounts
10.08.070: Traffic Division Duties; Accident Studies
10.08.080: Traffic Division Duties; Accident Reports
10.08.090: Traffic Division Duties; Annual Traffic Safety Report
10.08.010: RECORD KEEPING:
   A.   The clerk of the city court shall keep a record of all violations of
the traffic ordinances of the city or of the state vehicle laws of which any
person has been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all
such alleged offenses. Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types
of violations and the total of each. The record shall accumulate during at
least a five (5) year period and from that time on the record shall be
maintained complete for at least the most recent five (5) year period. This
record shall be subject to the examination of all members of the police
department and the city attorney at all times.
   B.   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms.
   C.   All such records and reports shall be public records. (Prior code § 42-
2-3)
10.08.020: TRAFFIC ENGINEER ESTABLISHED:
The office of city traffic engineer is established. The city engineer shall
serve as city traffic engineer in addition to the city engineer's other duties,
and shall exercise the powers and duties with respect to traffic, as provided
in this code, without additional pay. (Prior code § 42-2-8(a))
10.08.030: TRAFFIC ENGINEER; DUTIES GENERALLY:
It shall be the general duty of the city traffic engineer to determine the
installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic control devices, to
conduct engineering analysis of traffic accidents and to devise remedial
measures, to conduct engineering investigation of traffic conditions and to
cooperate with other city officials in the development of ways and means to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out the additional powers and duties
imposed by ordinances of the city. (Prior code § 42-2-8(b))
10.08.040: TRAFFIC DIVISION ESTABLISHED:
There is established in the police department of the city a traffic division to
be under the control of an officer of police appointed by and directly
responsible to the chief of police. (Prior code § 42-2-1)
10.08.050: TRAFFIC DIVISION; DUTIES GENERALLY:
It shall be the duty of the traffic division with such aid as may be rendered
by other members of the police department to enforce the street traffic
regulations of the city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the
division by this code and the traffic ordinances of the city. (Prior code § 42-
2-2)
10.08.060: TRAFFIC DIVISION DUTIES; INVESTIGATING ACCOUNTS:
It shall be the duty of the traffic division, assisted by other police officers
of the department, to investigate traffic accidents, to arrest and to assist in
the prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law causing or
contributing to such accidents. (Prior code § 42-2-4)
10.08.070: TRAFFIC DIVISION DUTIES; ACCIDENT STUDIES:
Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the traffic
division shall conduct studies of such accidents and determine remedial
measures. (Prior code § 42-2-5)
10.08.080: TRAFFIC DIVISION DUTIES; ACCIDENT REPORTS:
The traffic division shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location. Such reports shall be available for the use and
information of the city traffic engineer. (Prior code § 42-2-6)
10.08.090: TRAFFIC DIVISION DUTIES; ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT:
The traffic division shall annually prepare a traffic report which shall be
filed with the mayor. Such report shall contain information on traffic matters
in the city as follows:
   A.   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured and other pertinent traffic accident data;
   B.   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent data
on the safety activities of the police;
   C.   The plans and recommendations of the division for the future traffic
safety activities. (Prior code § 42-2-7)
CHAPTER 10.12
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10.12.010: Police And Fire Department Officials; Authority
10.12.020: Obedience To Officials Required
10.12.030: Persons Propelling Pushcarts Or Riding Bicycles Or Animals To Comply
10.12.040: Public Employees To Comply
10.12.050: Real Property Owners' Rights
10.12.060: Roller Skates And Similar Devices Restricted
10.12.070: Authorized Emergency Vehicles (Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
10.12.080: Maintenance Exemptions
10.12.090: Violation; Penalty
10.12.010: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS; AUTHORITY:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department or such
officers as are assigned by the chief of police to enforce all street traffic
ordinances of the city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the city.
   B.   Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned by
the chief of police are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided, that in the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic ordinances.
   C.   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity. (Prior code § 42-3-1)
10.12.020: OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIALS REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order
or direction of a police officer or fire department official.
   B.   No driver who, having received a visual or audible signal from a police
officer to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, shall operate his or her vehicle
in wilful or wanton disregard of such signal so as to interfere with or
endanger the operation of the police vehicle or any other vehicle or person; or
increase her or his speed or attempt to flee or elude the police.
   C.   Penalty provisions pertaining to violations of this code are found in
title 1,
chapter 1.16 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code § 42-3-3)
10.12.030: PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS OR RIDING BICYCLES OR ANIMALS TO
COMPLY:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or animal upon a
street or roadway and every person driving any animal drawn vehicle shall be
subject to the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle
except to those provisions of this title which by their nature can have no
application. (Prior code § 42-3-4)
10.12.040: PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO COMPLY:
The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned or
used in the service of the United States government, this state, county or
city; and it is unlawful for any driver to violate any of the provisions of
this code, except as otherwise permitted in this code or by state statute.
(Prior code § 42-3-6)
10.12.050: REAL PROPERTY OWNERS' RIGHTS:
Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent the owner of real property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of the owner,
and not as matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from requiring other
or different or additional conditions than those specified in this code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such owner. (Prior code § 42-
3-9)
10.12.060: ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED:
   A.   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster,
skateboard, toy vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except
while crossing a street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing, such person shall
be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to pedestrians. (Ord. 14-75, 2014)
10.12.070: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
(Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
10.12.080: MAINTENANCE EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this title shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles or
other equipment while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or
highway but shall apply to such persons, vehicles and equipment when traveling
to or from such work. (Prior code § 42-3-10)
10.12.090: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required by this title.
   B.   Penalty provisions pertaining to violations of this code are found in
title 1, chapter 1.16 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code § 42-3-2)
CHAPTER 10.16
STREET REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10.16.010: Obstruction Impairing View
10.16.010: OBSTRUCTION IMPAIRING VIEW:
The police department may remove from any street, parking, gutter, sidewalk or
any other city owned or city controlled property all brush, foliage and other
obstruction which interferes with or impairs the view of an intersection or a
railroad grade crossing or which creates a traffic hazard. (Prior code § 42-4-
12)
CHAPTER 10.20
ACCIDENTS
SECTION:
10.20.010: Driver To Render Assistance
10.20.020: Injury Accident; Driver's Duty To Stop At Scene; Violation; Penalty
10.20.030: Accidents Involving Damage To Vehicle Or Other Property; Driver To
Stop At Scene; Violation; Penalty
10.20.040: Collision; Violation; Penalty
10.20.050: Accidents Involving Injury, Death Or Damage Of Four Hundred Dollars
Or More; Duty To Notify Police
10.20.060: Accident Reports
10.20.070: Reports And Notice; When Driver Is Physically Incapable
10.20.010: DRIVER TO RENDER ASSISTANCE:
The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended by any
person shall give her or his name, address and the registration number of the
vehicle she or he is driving and shall upon request and if available, exhibit
his or her operator's or chauffeur's license to the person struck or the driver
or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with and shall render
to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the
carrying, or the making of arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a
physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person. (Prior code § 42-5-3)
10.20.020: INJURY ACCIDENT; DRIVER'S DUTY TO STOP AT SCENE; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of
such accident or as close thereto as possible but shall then forthwith return
to and in every event shall remain at the scene of the accident until the
driver has fulfilled the requirements of section
10.20.010 of this chapter. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
   B.   Penalty provisions relating to violations of this code are found in
chapter 1.16 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code § 42-5-1)
10.20.030: ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY; DRIVER TO
STOP AT SCENE; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to a vehicle or other property which is driven or attended by any person
shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close
thereto as possible but shall forthwith return to and in every event shall
remain at the scene of such accident until the driver has fulfilled the
requirements of section
10.20.010 of this chapter. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
   B.   Penalty provisions relating to violations of this code are found in
chapter 1.16 of this chapter. (1989 Code: prior code § 42-5-2)
10.20.040: COLLISION; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle or is
involved in an accident with any vehicle or other property which is unattended
which results in damage to the other vehicle or property shall immediately stop
and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such
vehicle or other property of such driver's name and address and the
registration number of the vehicle causing such damage or shall attach securely
in a conspicuous place on the vehicle or other property a written notice giving
such driver's name and address and the registration number of the vehicle
causing such damage. If applicable, the driver shall also give notice as
provided in section
10.20.050 of this chapter.
   B.   Any person who shall violate this section shall, for each and every
violation thereof, be guilty of an infraction and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (1989 Code:
prior code § 42-5-4)
10.20.050: ACCIDENTS INVOLVING INJURY, DEATH OR DAMAGE OF FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS
OR MORE; DUTY TO NOTIFY POLICE:
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or death
of any person or damage to any apparent extent of four hundred dollars
($400.00) or more, shall immediately by the quickest means of communication
give notice of such accident to the city police department and remain at or
return to and remain at the scene of the accident until a police officer
arrives. (Prior code § 42-5-6)
10.20.060: ACCIDENT REPORTS:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) or more shall, within five (5) days after such
accident, forward a written report of such accident to the state department of
public safety.
   B.   The police department may require any driver of a vehicle involved in
an accident of which report must be made as provided in this section to file
supplemental reports whenever the original report is insufficient in the
opinion of the department and may require witnesses of accidents to render
reports to the police department.
   C.   Every law enforcement officer who, in the regular course of duty,
investigates a motor vehicle accident of which report must be made as required
in this section, either at the time of and at the scene of the accident or
thereafter by interviewing participants or witnesses shall within twenty four
(24) hours after completing such investigation, forward a written report of
such accident to the state department of public safety. (Prior code § 42-5-7)
10.20.070: REPORTS AND NOTICE; WHEN DRIVER IS PHYSICALLY INCAPABLE:
   A.   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving an
immediate notice of an accident as required in section
10.20.050 of this chapter and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the
time of the accident capable of doing so, such occupant shall give or cause to
be given the notice not given by the driver.
   B.   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written report
of an accident as required in section
10.20.060 of this chapter and such driver is not the owner of the vehicle, then
the owner of the vehicle involved in such accident shall within fifteen (15)
days after learning of the accident make such report not made by the driver.
(Prior code § 42-5-8)
CHAPTER 10.24
DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED AND RECKLESS DRIVING
SECTION:
10.24.010: Incapable Drivers
10.24.020: Permitting Incapable Drivers To Drive
10.24.030: Negligently Colliding
10.24.040: Careless Driving
10.24.050: Open Container In Vehicle
10.24.010: INCAPABLE DRIVERS:
No driver shall operate a vehicle while such driver's ability or alertness is
so impaired through fatigue, illness or any other cause as to make it unsafe
for him to drive such vehicle. (Prior code § 42-6-7)
10.24.020: PERMITTING INCAPABLE DRIVERS TO DRIVE:
No owner or person in control of a vehicle shall knowingly permit the vehicle
to be operated by any person who is physically or mentally disabled to such an
extent that such person's judgment or driving ability is impaired. (Prior code
§ 42-6-6)
10.24.030: NEGLIGENTLY COLLIDING:
It is unlawful to operate a vehicle with such lack of due care and in such
negligent manner as to cause the same to collide with any vehicle, person or
object. (Prior code § 42-6-8)
10.24.040: CARELESS DRIVING:
Any person who drives any motor vehicle in a careless imprudent manner without
due regard for the width, grade, curve and use of the streets and alleys of the
city and all other attendant circumstances, so as to endanger or be likely to
endanger the property or the life or limb of any person is guilty of careless
driving. (Prior code § 42-6-12)
10.24.050: OPEN CONTAINER IN VEHICLE:
   A.   No person shall drink any alcoholic beverage while driving a motor
vehicle or while a passenger in a motor vehicle, whether the vehicle is moving,
stopped or parked on any street or highway.
   B.   No person shall keep, carry, possess, transport or allow another to
keep, carry, possess or transport in the passenger compartment of a motor
vehicle, when the vehicle is on any public street or highway, any container
containing any alcoholic beverage if the container has been opened, the seal
thereon broken, or the contents of the container partially consumed.
   C.   For the purposes of this section:
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: As is provided in section
5.10.010 of this code.
      PASSENGER COMPARTMENT: The area of the vehicle normally occupied by the
driver and the driver's passengers and includes areas accessible to them while
traveling such as a utility or glove compartment, but does not include a
separate front or rear trunk compartment or other area of the vehicle not
accessible to the driver or passengers while inside the vehicle.
   D.   The provisions of subsections A and B of this section shall not apply
to passengers in the living quarters of a motor home or camper, but the driver
of the vehicle will be prohibited from consuming alcoholic beverages as
provided in subsection A of this section.
   E.   The provisions of subsection B of this section shall not apply to
passengers traveling in a duly licensed taxicab or bus.
   F.   Penalty provisions relating to violations of this code are found in
chapter 1.16 of this code. (Prior code § 42-6-13)
CHAPTER 10.28
SPEED REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10.28.010: Driving Too Slow
10.28.020: Speed Or Acceleration Contests
10.28.030: Obstruction For Exhibition Forbidden
10.28.010: DRIVING TOO SLOW:
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such slow speed as to impede or block
the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law. (Prior code § 42-7-2)
10.28.020: SPEED OR ACCELERATION CONTESTS:
No person shall engage in any motor vehicle speed contest or in any motor
vehicle acceleration contest on any street or alley, and no person shall aid or
abet any such vehicle speed contest or acceleration contest on any street or
alley. (Prior code § 42-7-3)
10.28.030: OBSTRUCTION FOR EXHIBITION FORBIDDEN:
No person shall, for the purpose of facilitating, aiding or as an incident to
any vehicle speed contest or vehicle acceleration contest, in any manner
obstruct or place any barricade or obstruction or assist or participate in
placing any such barricade or obstruction upon any street or alley. (Prior code
§ 42-7-4)
CHAPTER 10.32
TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION:
10.32.010: Limitations On Turning
10.32.020: Turn Signal Obligates Driver
10.32.010: LIMITATIONS ON TURNING:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any street unless such movement can be made with
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   B.   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon Main Street between 4th South and 10th North
Streets at any time. (1989 Code: prior code § 42-9-5)
10.32.020: TURN SIGNAL OBLIGATES DRIVER:
Should the driver of any vehicle give or cause to be given any signal which
would indicate to other traffic the driver's intention to turn, such driver
must not fail to make such turn nor fail to yield the right of way to all other
traffic that would be affected by such driver's failure to complete the
indicated turn. (Prior code § 42-9-10)
CHAPTER 10.36
RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
10.36.010: Losing Right Of Way
10.36.020: Failure To Yield Right Of Way; Effect Of Collision
10.36.030: Failure To Yield Right Of Way; Vehicle Entering Stop Or Yield
Intersection
10.36.010: LOSING RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall have no right
of way if such violation interferes with the ability of another driver to yield
the right of way to such person.
   B.   The driver of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall forfeit
any right of way which such driver might otherwise have. (Prior code § 42-10-5)
10.36.020: FAILURE TO YIELD RIGHT OF WAY; EFFECT OF COLLISION:
In the event that a driver, after having driven past a yield sign or a stop
sign, is involved in a collision with a pedestrian having right of way in a
crosswalk or a vehicle having right of way in the intersection such collision
shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the driver's failure to yield that
right of way as required by this section, but shall not be considered
negligence per se in determining legal liability for such accident. (Prior code
§ 42-10-6(a))
10.36.030: FAILURE TO YIELD RIGHT OF WAY; VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD
INTERSECTION:
Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control signal,
every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop
sign shall stop as required by law and after having stopped shall yield the
right of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another
highway or which is approaching so closely on another highway as to constitute
an immediate hazard during the time when such driver is moving across or within
the intersection. (Prior code § 42-10-6(b))
CHAPTER 10.40
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
10.40.010: Soliciting
10.40.020: Obstructing Sidewalks
10.40.010: SOLICITING:
No person shall stand in a street for the purpose of soliciting a ride,
employment, the parking, watching or guarding of a vehicle or other business.
(Prior code § 42-11-6)
10.40.020: OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS:
Pedestrians shall not obstruct or prevent the free use of sidewalks or
crosswalks by other pedestrians. (Prior code § 42-11-7)
CHAPTER 10.44
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
SECTION:
10.44.010: Designation
10.44.020: Signs
10.44.030: Authority To Restrict Direction Of Movement During Certain Periods
10.44.010: DESIGNATION:
Whenever the municipal council designates any one-way street or alley, the
chief of police or city engineer shall place and maintain signs giving notice
thereof; and no such regulations shall be effective unless signs are in place.
(Prior code § 42-12-1)
10.44.020: SIGNS:
Upon those streets and parts of streets which are marked as one-way streets,
traffic shall move only in the direction indicated by the signs, which signs
shall be maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite
direction is prohibited. (Prior code § 42-12-2)
10.44.030: AUTHORITY TO RESTRICT DIRECTION OF MOVEMENT DURING CERTAIN PERIODS:
   A.   The chief of police is authorized, subject to prior approval of the
municipal council, to determine and designate streets, parts of streets or
specific lanes thereon upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one
direction during one period and the opposite direction during another period of
the day and shall place and maintain appropriate markings, signs, barriers or
other devices to give notice thereof. The chief of police may erect signs
temporarily designating lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular
direction, regardless of the centerline of the roadway.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle in violation of
such markings, signs, barriers or other devices so placed in accordance with
this section. (Prior code § 42-12-3)
CHAPTER 10.48
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
SECTION:
10.48.010: Dangerous Crossings
10.48.020: Buses And Certain Trucks; Drivers' Duties
10.48.030: Designations Of Through Highways; Stop Signs
10.48.010: DANGEROUS CROSSINGS:
The chief of police after obtaining the prior approval of the municipal council
is authorized to designate particularly dangerous highway grade crossings of
railroads and to erect stop signs thereat. When such stop signs are erected,
the driver of any vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50'), but not less than
ten feet (10'), from the nearest track of such grade crossing and shall proceed
only upon exercising due care and observing that no train or trains are
approaching. (Prior code § 42-13-2)
10.48.020: BUSES AND CERTAIN TRUCKS; DRIVERS' DUTIES:
   A.   The driver of every:
      1.   "Bus", as defined in this code, transporting passengers;
      2.   School bus transporting school children;
      3.   Motor vehicle transporting explosive substances or flammable liquids
in quantities in excess of one hundred (100) gallons as a cargo or part of a
cargo;
      4.   Tank truck for transporting flammable liquids, whether loaded or
empty; or
      5.   Motor vehicle transporting corrosive liquids in cargo tanks;
   before crossing at grade any track or tracks or railroads or motor vehicle
transporting fissionable materials, shall stop such vehicle within fifty feet
(50') but not less than ten feet (10') from the nearest rail of such railroads
and while so stopped shall listen and look in both directions along such track
for any approaching train, and for signals indicating the approach of a train,
except as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed until she or he can do so
safely. After stopping as required in this section and upon proceeding when it
is safe to do so, the driver of any such vehicle shall cross only in such gear
of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for changing gears while
traversing such crossing; and the driver shall not shift gears while crossing
the track or tracks.
   B.   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or a
traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed.
   C.   Unless a railroad train is approaching, any vehicle listed in
subsection A of this section may proceed without stopping but at a speed not
exceeding twenty five (25) miles per hour at any highway grade crossing of a
railroad where a distinctive sign is displayed indicating that the public
service commission of Utah, after hearing, has approved that no stop need be
made. (Prior code § 42-13-3)
10.48.030: DESIGNATIONS OF THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS:
   A.   The chief of police after obtaining the prior approval of the municipal
council may designate through streets in addition to those designated by the
state road commission and may erect stop signs or "yield right of way" signs at
specified entrances thereto or may designate any intersection as a "stop"
intersection and erect like signs at one or more entrances to such
intersections.
   B.   Every such sign shall bear the word "Stop" in letters not less than
eight inches (8") in height and such signs shall at nighttime be rendered
luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by fixed floodlight
projected on the face of the sign or by efficient reflecting elements on the
face of the sign.
   C.   Every stop sign shall be located as near as practicable at the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if there is no
crosswalk, then as close as practicable to the nearest line of the roadway.
   D.   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, in the event
there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting highway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting highway before entering the
intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal. (Prior code § 42-13-4)
CHAPTER 10.52
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
10.52.010: Prohibited In Certain Areas
10.52.020: Parking Regulations; Sign Placement
10.52.030: Unattended Motor Vehicle
10.52.040: Regulation Of Vehicle Impounding
10.52.050: Reclaiming Impounded Vehicles
10.52.060: Fee And Expense; Lien
10.52.070: Notice Of Impounding
10.52.080: Form Of Notice
10.52.090: Proof Of Notice
10.52.100: Sale Of Unclaimed Vehicles
10.52.110: Certificate Of Sale
10.52.120: Disposition Of Monies Received
10.52.130: Recordkeeping
10.52.140: Approach To Parking Space
10.52.150: Parking Not To Obstruct Traffic
10.52.160: Parking In Alleys
10.52.170: Street Maintenance; Overnight Parking Prohibited
10.52.180: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
10.52.190: Parking Prohibited Where
10.52.200: Signs And Markings
10.52.210: Parking Time Limited On Streets
10.52.215: Residential Parking Permit Program
10.52.220: Cutting Through Corners
10.52.230: Stop When Traffic Obstructed
10.52.240: Parking In Ditches
10.52.250: Placing No Parking Signs Prohibited
10.52.260: Public Parking Areas
10.52.270: Excessive Noise And Pollution
10.52.280: Handicapped Parking
10.52.285: Regulation Of Private Booting And Towing Practices
10.52.290: Stopping, Standing And Parking; Violation; Penalty
10.52.010: PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS:
   A.   Stopping, Standing Or Parking Vehicle Prohibited; Exception: No person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the traffic authority indicates a different length by signs or markings;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station or within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly
signposted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      14.   At any place where signs or markings placed by order of the
Municipal Council prohibit stopping;
      15.   In any parking stall marked for angle parking with the rear wheels
of the vehicle adjacent to the curb;
      16.   In any parking stall marked by painted lines unless the vehicle is
entirely within such parking space or painted lines upon the surface of the
street or parking area;
      17.   On that portion of an unlaned roadway which is within fifteen feet
(15') from the center of such roadway on a street not having adjacent curbs;
      18.   Parked in a direction opposite to the direction of traffic flow on
a one-way street;
      19.   In any public transit bus loading zone, which shall include areas:
         a.   Adjacent to a red painted curb,
         b.   Between two (2) signs designating the space between them to be a
bus loading zone,
         c.   Within sixty feet (60') of any sign designating the area to be a
bus loading zone,
         d.   Public transit buses engaged in an official function relating to
intracity transportation of passengers are exempt from the provisions of this
subsection;
      20.   Along the east side of Third East Street between First and Second
North Street;
      21.   On the area between the curb (and if no curb the edge of the paved
roadway) and the sidewalk that is located within the public right-of-way.
   B.   Unlawful Moving Of Vehicle: No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully
under his control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is unlawful.
   C.   Electric Charging Stations:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, other than an
electric vehicle, within any space marked or signed as reserved for the
charging of electric vehicles.
      2.   It is unlawful to park, or permit to be parked, any electric vehicle
in a space with an electric vehicle charging station if such electric vehicle
is not in the process of charging.
      3.   Electric vehicles may be parked in any space designated for public
parking, subject to the same regulations that apply to any other vehicle that
would park in that space.
(Ord. 24-06, 2024: Ord. 19-05, 2019)
10.52.020: PARKING REGULATIONS; SIGN PLACEMENT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be stopped or parked with the right hand
wheels parallel to and within twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb or as
close as practicable to the right edge of the right hand shoulder so as not to
be facing oncoming traffic.
   B.   On one-way streets vehicles may also park parallel with the curb and
with the left hand wheels adjacent to and within eighteen inches (18") of the
left hand curb.
   C.   Angle parking is permitted on any street containing painted lines
designating parking at an angle to the curb.
   D.   The Chief of Police after obtaining the prior approval of the Municipal
Council may place signs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles on any street or highway where after a public hearing it is
determined that such stopping, standing or parking would unduly interfere with
the free movement of traffic thereof. Such signs as placed by the Chief of
Police or the State Road Commission shall be official signs, and no person
shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions stated
on such signs. (Prior Code § 42-14-2)
10.52.030: UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing
the key, placing the transmission in park or the gears in low or reverse if the
vehicle has a manual shift, or effectively setting the brakes thereon; and when
standing upon any perceptible grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or
side of the highway. (Prior Code § 42-14-3)
10.52.040: REGULATION OF VEHICLE IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Vehicle Impoundment Without Notice: A vehicle may be impounded with or
without citation and without giving prior notice to its owner only under the
following circumstances:
      1.   The vehicle is impeding or likely to impede the normal flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
      2.   The vehicle poses an immediate danger to the public safety;
      3.   The vehicle is illegally parked within fifteen feet (15') of a fire
hydrant;
      4.   The vehicle, without a valid designated plate or placard issued
under state law, is parked in a stall or space clearly marked and designated
for use by disabled persons;
      5.   A police officer reasonably believes that the vehicle is stolen;
      6.   A police officer reasonably believes that the vehicle or its
contents constitute evidence of an offense and such impoundment is reasonably
necessary to obtain or preserve such evidence; provided, however, that nothing
in this section shall be construed to authorize the seizure of a vehicle
without a warrant where a warrant would otherwise be required;
      7.   The vehicle was in the possession of a person taken into custody by
a law enforcement officer and no other reasonable disposition of the vehicle is
available, or the vehicle was in the possession of a person arrested for a
felony traffic violation;
      8.   A police officer reasonably believes that the vehicle's operator, in
violation of state law, is driving while uninsured or without a valid driver's
license and no other reasonable disposition of the vehicle is available; or
      9.   The vehicle is parked in the public rights of way or on other
publicly owned or controlled property in violation of any law, ordinance, or
regulation, and there are six (6) or more parking citations issued against the
vehicle that have not been responded to, either by payment of the penalty or
appearance at a hearing, for at least thirty (30) days from the date of the
filing of the sixth parking citation.
   B.   Vehicle Impoundment After Notice: A vehicle not subject to impoundment
under subsection A of this section may be impounded with notice in compliance
with this section. Notice of such proposed impoundment must be securely
attached to and conspicuously displayed on the vehicle for a period of forty
eight (48) hours prior to such impoundment. Where the vehicle's owner is
ascertainable, if possible, verbal notice must be attempted via telephone or at
the registered owner's address. A vehicle may only be towed with notice for the
following reasons:
      1.   When such vehicle is parked and/or used in violation of any law,
ordinance, or regulation;
      2.   When such vehicle is an abandoned or junked vehicle (state code 41-
6a-1408 defines abandoned as left unattended for 48 hours on a highway or
road); or
      3.   When such vehicle is so mechanically defective as to be unsafe for
operation, provided, however, that this section shall not be construed to
prevent the operation of any such defective vehicle to a place for correction
of defective equipment in the manner directed by a police officer.
   C.   Notice Of Impoundment:
      1.   After a vehicle has been towed pursuant to this section, notice
shall be provided to the registered owner(s) and any other person(s) who
reasonably appears to have an interest in the vehicle. Notice will be mailed to
such person(s) within twenty four (24) hours after the towing of the vehicle,
Sundays and holidays excluded, and will state:
         a.   That the vehicle has been towed, and a description of the
vehicle, including the make, model, color, year, license, and vehicle
identification number;
         b.   The location of the vehicle and that it may be reclaimed only
upon evidence that the claimant is the owner or person entitled to possession;
         c.   The address and telephone number of the person or facility that
may be contacted for information of the charges that must be paid before the
vehicle will be released and the procedures for obtaining the release of the
vehicle;
         d.   That the vehicle and its contents are subject to a lien for the
towing and storage charges, and a vehicle not claimed within thirty (30) days
after the mailing date of the notice is subject to sale pursuant to state and
local law;
         e.   That the owner may request a hearing concerning the legality of
the impoundment, and the method for requesting such a hearing; and
         f.   An itemized statement of the amount due and to whom payable for
removal and storage of the vehicle at the time of notice.
      2.   Notice need not be mailed when a vehicle does not display license
plates or other identifying markings by which the registration or ownership of
the vehicle can be determined, or when the identity of the owner of the vehicle
is not available from the appropriate motor vehicle licensing and registration
authority.
   D.   Redemption Of Impounded Vehicles: Vehicles impounded by the city shall
be redeemed only under the following circumstances:
      1.   Only the registered owner, or a person authorized by the registered
owner, may redeem an impounded vehicle. A person redeeming an impounded vehicle
must produce a valid driver's license.
   E.   Request For Hearing On Impoundment:
      1.   The mayor of Logan shall appoint a qualified individual to serve as
the hearing officer.
      2.   After a vehicle has been impounded pursuant to this section, the
registered owner(s) and any other person(s) who reasonably appears to have an
interest in the vehicle is entitled to request a hearing to contest the
validity of the impoundment of the vehicle. The request for a hearing must be
in writing and filed with Logan City police department. The request for hearing
must state the grounds upon which the person requesting the hearing believes
the impoundment is invalid or unjustified, and such other information as the
hearing officer may require.
      3.   The hearing officer shall set and conduct an administrative hearing
on the matter within fourteen (14) days of receipt of a proper request filed
pursuant to this section, except where a vehicle has not yet been released from
impoundment, in which case the hearing officer will set and conduct the hearing
within seventy two (72) hours of receipt of the request, not including
Saturdays, Sundays, or federally sanctioned holidays.
      4.   The owner(s) and any other person(s) who has an interest in the
vehicle is only entitled to one hearing for each tow of that vehicle. Any
person who fails to appear at the hearing without good cause will not be
entitled to have such hearing rescheduled.
   F.   Hearing Procedure:
      1.   The hearing shall afford a reasonable opportunity for a person(s) to
demonstrate by the statements of witnesses and other evidence that the
impoundment of the vehicle was invalid or unjustified. The hearing officer
shall establish the necessary rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
such hearings.
      2.   The hearing officer shall determine whether the impoundment was
proper and whether the removal, towing, storage, and administrative fees were
proper. The hearing officer shall not have the authority to determine the
validity of a parking citation unless the time for filing a request for a
hearing on the parking citation has not passed, in which case the hearing
officer has discretion to consolidate the impoundment hearing and the parking
citation hearing.
   G.   Result Of Hearing:
      1.   If the hearing officer finds that the impoundment of the vehicle was
invalid or unjustified, the hearing officer will order the vehicle to be
immediately released, and the owner(s) or any other person(s) who has an
interest in the vehicle shall not be held liable for any tow and/or storage
charges. If the costs of impoundment and the administrative fee have already
been paid, the hearing officer shall enter judgment against the city in the
amount of the costs of impoundment.
      2.   If the hearing officer finds that the impoundment of the vehicle was
valid and justified, the hearing officer will order that the vehicle continue
to be held until the appropriate fees are paid.
      3.   No determination of facts made at a hearing under this section shall
have any collateral estoppel effect on subsequent criminal prosecution and
shall not preclude litigation of those same facts in a subsequent criminal
prosecution.
      4.   The decision of the hearing officer shall be the final decision by
the city. Any person aggrieved by a decision may file a petition for judicial
review in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 16-07, 2016)
10.52.050: RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
The owner of an impounded vehicle may reclaim and obtain the release thereof
upon and only upon full compliance with the following conditions precedent:
   A.   The owner shall furnish to the chief of police or the chief's
authorized representative satisfactory evidence of the owner's identity and his
or her ownership of the vehicle.
   B.   The owner shall pay to the city a pound service fee of fifty dollars
($50.00), which fee is levied upon the impounding of every such vehicle. Such
sum is determined to be the reasonable cost of impounding a vehicle.
   C.   The owner shall pay to the city all of its storage costs and expenses
incident to storing the vehicle in the authorized vehicle pound and to giving
notice of the impounding thereof. In cases where a vehicle has been impounded
pursuant to this chapter as originally adopted or as amended, in a vehicle
pound maintained and operated by the city, the owner shall pay to the city
storage charges at the rate of fifty cents ($0.50) per day or fraction thereof
during the first thirty (30) days of storage and at the rate of five dollars
($5.00) per month thereafter which charges are determined to be the reasonable
cost of storing and keeping an impounded vehicle by the city.
   D.   If a criminal charge is made against the owner of such vehicle for the
illegal parking thereof or for the operation thereof while the vehicle is
improperly registered or without proper license plates, the owner shall sign a
written promise to appear at a time certain, as fixed by the chief of police or
the chief's representative to answer such charge, or, if required by the chief
of police or the chief's representative, shall post bail to secure such
appearance before such vehicle is released.
   E.   The owner shall obtain the written order of the chief of police or the
chief's representative directing the release of the vehicle by the poundkeeper
and upon receiving the vehicle she or he shall execute a written receipt
therefor.
   F.   In cases where a vehicle has been impounded, as hereinafter provided,
by reason of the vehicle having been improperly registered or stolen, or by
reason of the obliteration of motor or manufacturer's number or identification
marks, such vehicle shall not be released, in any event, until the requirements
of Utah Code Annotated 41-1-115 and 41-1-116, 1953, shall have been satisfied.
   G.   The chief of police after obtaining approval of the municipal council
may designate any garage in the city as an authorized vehicle pound. (Ord. 13-
10, 2013: prior code § 42-14-5)
10.52.060: FEE AND EXPENSE; LIEN:
The impounding fee levied by this chapter and all storage charges and all costs
and expenses incident to the giving of notice of impounding and to the sale of
the vehicle as provided in this chapter shall be a lien upon the impounded
vehicle, which lien may be summarily foreclosed in the manner hereinafter
provided. (Prior code § 42-14-6)
10.52.070: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDING:
If the owner of an impounded vehicle fails to appear and reclaim it as
hereinbefore provided within five (5) days after it is impounded, the chief of
police shall send to the registered owner thereof, and to every owner of legal
title thereto or lienholder thereon, as disclosed by the records of the state
public safety department, a written notice of the impounding of such vehicle
and the cause thereof. The notice shall describe the vehicle and shall state
that unless the vehicle is reclaimed within thirty (30) days of the date of
giving notice, it will be deemed to be abandoned and will be sold by the chief
of police in accordance with the ordinances of the city. The notice shall be
sent by United States registered mail, directed to the persons to be notified
at their last known addresses as disclosed by the records of the state public
safety department as set forth in this section. If the chief of police is
unable to ascertain the name or address of any person having an interest in the
impounded vehicle, such notice shall, in lieu of mailing by registered mail as
aforesaid, be published once in a newspaper published and having general
circulation in the city, and copies thereof shall be mailed to such person or
persons as the chief of police may have reason to believe have or claim some
right, title or interest in the vehicle at their last post office address
according to the information, if any, received by the chief of police from
sources other than the records of the state public safety department. (Prior
code § 42-14-7)
10.52.080: FORM OF NOTICE:
   A.   The notice required by section
10.52.070 of this chapter may be substantially in the following form:
   Notice of Impounding and of Intention to Sell Vehicle
To                           , the owner or owners, and all other persons
claiming any right, title or interest in the vehicle hereafter described:
Take notice that on        day of               , 20      , the following
described vehicle, to-wit:
   Make and   Year   License   Motor
   body type:   Model:   Number:   Number:
                                                                
was parked on a public street of Logan City, Utah, in violation of (Specifying
the ordinance or statute violated), (or, as the case may be, was found with the
motor number defaced), and was on that date impounded by Logan City pursuant to
the Logan City Traffic Code.
Said vehicle may be reclaimed as provided in said Code upon application at the
office of the Logan Police Department, Logan, Utah. If not so reclaimed within
thirty (30) days of the mailing (or publication, as the case may be) of this
notice, said vehicle will be deemed abandoned, and will be sold at public
auction by Logan City.
   Dated                     
         LOGAN CITY
         By                                              
         Chief of Police
   B.   If the chief of police has not received within five (5) days of the
impounding of such vehicle, information regarding the ownership and claimants
of the ownership of such vehicle, the chief of police shall note the fact upon
the record of impounding kept by her or him as hereinafter provided, and in
such case the notice may be directed generally to "any person claiming any
interest in the following vehicle". (Prior code § 42-14-8)
10.52.090: PROOF OF NOTICE:
Proof by affidavit of the giving of notice of impounding as hereinbefore
provided shall be made in duplicate and preserved with the record of impounding
hereinafter provided for. (Prior code § 42-14-9)
10.52.100: SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
   A.   If any vehicle impounded as hereinbefore provided is not claimed within
thirty (30) days after the giving of notice as set forth in this chapter, it
shall be deemed to have been abandoned by the owner or owners thereof. At the
expiration of such period of time, the chief of police shall advertise such
vehicle for sale and sell the same at public auction to the highest bidder for
cash. Such advertisement shall be by publication of notice of sale at least
once, not less than seven (7) nor more than fourteen (14) days prior to the
time fixed for the sale in a newspaper published and having a general
circulation in the city, and by publicly posting a notice of such sale for not
less than seven (7) nor more than fourteen (14) days prior thereto in three (3)
public places in the city and on the vehicle. The chief of police, in his or
her discretion, may further advertise such sale by further notice to
prospective purchasers; provided, that the cost of such additional
advertisement shall not exceed five dollars, but such additional notice is not
required.
   B.   The notice of sale shall describe the vehicle by manufacturer's trade
name or make, body type, year model, if known, and motor and license numbers,
if any, and shall specify the time and place of sale, which shall be within the
corporate limits of the city. A copy of the notice of sale shall be mailed to
the owner or owners of the vehicle, if known, at their last known address, at
least seven (7) days prior to the date of sale.
   C.   At the time and place fixed for the sale, the chief of police shall
offer for sale and sell the vehicle at public auction to the highest bidder for
cash.
   D.   At such sale the city may bid upon and purchase the vehicle. If the
city becomes the purchaser at sale, it may credit upon the purchase price the
pound service fee, the storage costs and charges incident to the making of such
sale. If the vehicle is not sold to another purchaser, as provided in this
chapter, the chief of police shall strike off and sell the same to the city for
the amount of such service fee, storage costs, charges and expenses. (Prior
code § 42-14-10)
10.52.110: CERTIFICATE OF SALE:
Upon the consummation of the sale and receipt of the purchase price therefor,
the chief of police shall deliver possession of the vehicle to the purchaser
and shall also execute and deliver to the purchaser his or her certificate the
same manner as the notice of impounding, shall recite the fact of the sale, the
price paid and the purchaser's name and address, and shall contain a reference
to the pertinent sections of this code which constitute the authority for the
sale. A copy of the certificate shall be filed with the city recorder. (Prior
code § 42-14-11)
10.52.120: DISPOSITION OF MONIES RECEIVED:
All monies received by the chief of police upon the sale of such vehicle shall
be deposited in the city treasury of the city. At any time within one year from
and after such sale, the former owner or owners of the vehicle sold, upon
application to the municipal council and upon presentation of satisfactory
proof of ownership of the vehicle sold, shall be paid the proceeds of such
sale, less the impounding fee, storage charges and expenses of sale
hereinbefore provided. If the proceeds of sale are not reclaimed within the
period of one year, they shall be credited to the general fund of the city.
(Prior code § 42-14-12)
10.52.130: RECORD KEEPING:
The chief of police shall keep a record in duplicate of all vehicles impounded
by manufacturer's trade name or make, body type, model and license number, the
names of the owners of such vehicles if the same are known and the names and
addresses of all persons claiming the same, and such other descriptive matter
as may identify such vehicle, the nature and circumstances of the impounding
thereof, and the violation, if any, on account of which such vehicles were
impounded, the date of such impounding, the name and address of any person to
whom any such vehicle is released, a record of all notices given with respect
to the impounding and sale of such vehicle and a record of the sale, thereof,
if any. Whenever such vehicle has been sold, as provided in this chapter, one
of the copies of such record shall be filed with the city recorder with the
certificate of sale, and a copy of the affidavit of the giving of notice upon
the impounding and sale of such vehicle. (Prior code § 42-14-13)
10.52.140: APPROACH TO PARKING SPACE:
   A.   Every driver about to enter a parking space being vacated shall stop
his or her vehicle and wait to the rear of the vehicle in the actual process of
vacating the parking space over all other drivers.
   B.   No driver shall stop her or his vehicle ahead of a parking space being
vacated and attempt to interfere with a driver who has waited properly in the
rear of a parking space being vacated.
   C.   No driver shall stop and wait for a parking space unless the vehicle
vacating the space is actually in motion in the process of vacating. (Prior
code § 42-14-14)
10.52.150: PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC:
No person shall stop or park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than twenty feet (20') of
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic nor upon any laned
roadway within the lanes designated for moving traffic. (Prior code § 42-14-15)
10.52.160: PARKING IN ALLEYS:
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley except during the necessary and
expeditious loading and unloading of merchandise, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property or interfere with the free movement
of traffic through the alley. (Prior code § 42-14-16)
10.52.170: STREET MAINTENANCE; OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall park a vehicle on any street or city owned parking lot
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. of any day, beginning November 15 and ending March 15 of each year. Winter
parking permits may be purchased by property owners of legally existing
nonconforming residential properties built prior to 1968 if said properties
cannot physically accommodate legal on site parking. Permits shall be purchased
and renewed annually and shall be limited to a maximum of two (2) permits per
legally existing unit. The actual number of permits per unit will be determined
by considering, the number of existing off street stalls and any physical space
available for additional off street parking stalls. Permit fees shall be set by
council resolution. Other permit conditions may be required administratively if
deemed necessary to minimize negative impacts.
   B.   No person shall leave any vehicle parked as to be an obstruction to a
public works project or solid waste collection vehicles which would be
hazardous to other traffic at any time, day or night.
   C.   Residents or persons visiting when required by emergency or other
unusual circumstances may apply to the city for a period for all night parking
on the street if off street parking is not available. The city for good cause
shown may authorize a vehicle or vehicles to remain parked on the street for a
specified period of time provided a permit is issued and properly displayed.
   D.   No person who owns or has possession, custody, or control of any
vehicle shall park such vehicle upon any street or alley or city owned parking
lot for more than a consecutive period of twenty one (21) hours, unless
authorized by the mayor or a designee and a permit showing such authorization
is visibly displayed as designated on the permit.
   E.   The mayor, or a designee may, when conditions justify such action,
declare an emergency and designate specific streets as emergency routes. Such
designation shall, unless otherwise specified, prohibit parking on those
streets, day or night, until the emergency designation is removed. Notification
shall be by newspaper and/or radio, television, cable or e-mail. (Ord. 16-33,
2016)
10.52.180: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park or operate a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal
purpose of:
   A.   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   B.   Greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by an
emergency;
   C.   Displaying advertising; or
   D.   The sale of foodstuffs or other merchandise in any business district.
(Prior code § 42-14-18)
10.52.190: PARKING PROHIBITED WHERE:
No person shall park a vehicle:
   A.   On any public street or alley where the width of the roadway is less
than twenty feet (20');
   B.   On the south or east side of any public street or alley where the width
of the roadway is over twenty feet (20'), but less than thirty feet (30'),
unless otherwise directed by traffic control devices. (Prior code § 42-14-19)
10.52.200: SIGNS AND MARKINGS:
   A.   The city traffic engineer, subject to prior approval of the mayor, is
authorized subject to provisions and limitations of this code and after an
adequate study, to place, and when required in this chapter, shall place and
maintain appropriate signs or traffic markings to indicate standing or parking
regulations. Traffic markings designating zones shall have the meanings set
forth in this subsection:
      1.   "Red" shall mean no stopping at any time.
      2.   "Yellow" shall be a twenty (20) minute loading zone.
      3.   "Blue" shall mean handicapped parking only.
   B.   When appropriate signs or traffic curb markings have been erected or
placed according to this section, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
in any zone in violation of any of the provisions of this section. (1989 Code:
prior code § 42-14-20)
10.52.210: PARKING TIME LIMITED ON STREETS:
When proper signs or traffic markings are erected or in place by authorization
of the municipal council in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle or permit such vehicle to remain parked for longer than the time
specified between the hours shown and within the district or upon any of the
streets or parts of streets so designated. (Ord. 02-27 § 1, 2002: Ord. 90-50 §
2, 1990: prior code § 42-14-21)
10.52.215: RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT PROGRAM:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   There exist certain entities within the city, such as university
complexes and other large buildings, which attract commuters seeking parking in
nearby areas which are predominantly residential and business in nature. The
increased demand often exacerbates the severe shortage of on street parking for
residents and businesses in such areas.
      2.   This section authorizes a program and implementing procedural system
by which residents and businesses within qualifying areas may receive
preferential treatment when competing with commuter vehicles for available on
street parking in predominantly residential neighborhoods of the city.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section:
      ADDRESS: The street number and applicable apartment/condominium number
for each dwelling unit, business, or other use. Each apartment or commercial
unit is regarded as a unique address.
      AREA: Refers, irrespective of zoning, to a geographical region, not
necessarily contiguous, where residents dwell and businesses may operate.
      AREA BUSINESS: Business property located within a city residential
parking permit area.
      AREA PERMITTEE: An area resident or an area business which has received
an authorized resident vehicle parking permit.
      AREA RESIDENT: Any person who dwells or resides within a parking permit
area.
      AREA VEHICLE: A vehicle that originates from inside a permit area and is
under the control of area residents or area business owners and includes
automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, or other motor driven forms of
transportation. It does not include boats and trailers.
      CITY RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT AREA: Any officially designated permit
parking area within the corporate limits of Logan wherein motor vehicles
displaying a valid permit as described herein shall be exempt from parking
regulations or restrictions solely applicable to commuter vehicles.
      CITY RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT PROGRAM: Logan's permit parking program,
as a whole, pursuant to the provisions and regulations of this section.
      COMMUTER VEHICLE: A motor vehicle parked in a city permit parking area
that: 1) is not under the control of an area resident, business owner, or
property owner, and 2) does not bear a permit for the designated area.
      DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, which is designated for
residential purposes. Such dwelling must bear an address assigned by the city
engineer. The number of independent dwelling units recognized therein shall not
exceed the number authorized under permit for zoning.
      GUEST VEHICLE PARKING PERMIT: The portable card stock placard issued to
area residents and area businesses for use on vehicles under the legal control
of guests, customers, and/or clients during periods when persons operating said
vehicles are actually visiting or engaged in business at the permittee's
address.
      LEASE: That a person pays rent or other remuneration for use of a parcel
of real property as such person's residence or place of business.
      OWNS: That a person has at least one-fourth (1/4) of the fee or equitable
interest in a parcel of real property within a city permit parking area.
      PERMIT PARKING COORDINATOR: Refers to the person or entity designated by
the Logan City chief of police to distribute parking permits for the
residential parking area.
      PERMIT VEHICLE: Refers to any vehicle properly displaying a resident or
guest parking permit issued by the parking permit coordinator for authorized
use on such vehicles.
      PERMIT YEAR: Refers to the twelve (12) month period set for the
administration of a city permit area, including the expiration and renewal of
resident and guest permits.
      PROGRAM: Shall refer to the process of designation, administration, and
enforcement of all city parking permit areas and regulations established by the
Logan City chief of police pursuant to the provisions of this section.
      RESIDENT VEHICLE PARKING PERMIT: The permit issued by the parking permit
coordinator for use in vehicles under the legal control of area residents and
businesses.
   C.   Area Designation, Change, Or Removal Authority: The chief of police
may, upon approval by the municipal council, designate as a city permit parking
area any area which is determined to be adversely affected by commuter vehicles
for any extended period(s) during the day or night, on weekends, or holidays.
The chief of police may, upon approval of the municipal council, make
recommended changes to the permit parking area.
   D.   Signs And Markings In Designated Areas: Upon approval by the municipal
council designating a city permit parking area, the city engineer shall cause
appropriate signs to be erected in the area, indicating prominently thereon the
parking regulations and conditions under which permit parking shall be
administered.
   E.   Parking Permit Application Term: Each parking permit issued by the
parking permit coordinator's office shall be valid for one year or portion
thereof to be determined by the parking permit coordinator excluding guest
permits. Permits shall not be transferable, but may be renewed annually upon
reapplication in the manner required by the parking permit coordinator. Each
application or reapplication for a parking permit shall contain information
sufficient to identify the applicant's identity, claim for permit eligibility,
authorized residence or business within the city permit parking area, the
license number of the motor vehicle for which application is made, and such
other information that may be deemed relevant by the parking permit
coordinator.
   F.   Parking Permit Issuance Conditions:
      1.   Parking permits shall be issued by the parking permit coordinator's
office. Each such permit shall be designed to state or reflect thereon the
particular city permit parking area. No more than one parking permit shall be
issued for each motor vehicle included on the application.
      2.   The following classifications of persons or entities may be issued
parking permits for motor vehicles under their control upon request pursuant to
requirements of this section:
         a.   Area residents of the city permit parking area for motor vehicles
owned or controlled and regularly parked in the area by household members.
         b.   Area business owners who own or lease property (and their full
time or part time employees) within a city permit parking area for motor
vehicles associated with the business use regularly parked in the area.
However, no more than one parking permit may be issued for each such motor
vehicle.
         c.   Guests, customers, and/or clients of city permit area residents
or area businesses who may be provided guest permits by such area permittees
for use on vehicles under the legal control of guests, customers, and/or
clients during periods when persons operating such vehicles are actually
visiting or engaged in business at the area permittee's address.
         d.   Issuance of a permit shall not guarantee or reserve to the holder
thereof an on street parking space within the designated permit parking area.
   G.   Parking Permit Display Required: Permits must be placed in the vehicle
according to the instructions provided with the permit.
      1.   Resident vehicle parking permits must hang from the rearview mirror
to be valid.
      2.   Guest vehicle parking permits must be placed on the driver's side
dashboard with the front facing outward. It is the responsibility of the
vehicle operator to ensure that the permit is clearly visible, readable, and
displayed properly.
   H.   Parking Permit Activities Permitted: A motor vehicle bearing a valid
parking permit displayed as provided for herein, shall be permitted to stand or
be parked in the permit area for which the permit has been issued. The permit
does not exempt drivers or owners from complying with general parking
regulations and penalties imposed by the traffic code set out in this title, or
ordinances. All other motor vehicles not displaying permits with the exception
of emergency vehicles and vehicles providing services to the area that are
parked within a city permit parking area shall be subject to the penalties in
accordance with section
10.52.290 of this chapter.
   I.   Unlawful Activities Penalty:
      1.   It is unlawful and a violation of this section for a person to
falsely represent himself or herself as eligible for a parking permit or to
furnish false information in an application therefor to the parking permit
coordinator's office. Such violation shall constitute a class B misdemeanor.
      2.   It is unlawful and a violation of this section for a person to copy,
produce, or otherwise bring into existence a facsimile or counterfeit parking
permit in order to evade parking regulations applicable in a city permit
parking area. Such violation shall constitute a class B misdemeanor.
      3.   It is a violation of this section for any resident or business to
receive any financial consideration for the use or transfer of a permit issued
by the parking permit coordinator for use in the designated parking permit
area. Such violation shall constitute grounds for parking permit revocation as
outlined in subsection J of this section.
   J.   Parking Permit Revocation Conditions: Faithful compliance with the
terms of the city parking permit program is a condition subsequent to the
privilege of obtaining a permit. Violation of the terms of the city parking
permit area shall be deemed a forfeiture of those privileges.
      1.   Any permit holder convicted for violation of this section may be
required to surrender such permit.
      2.   The parking permit coordinator is authorized to revoke the city
parking permit of any person found to be in violation of this section, and upon
written notification thereof, the person shall surrender such permit to the
parking permit coordinator. Failure, when so requested, to surrender a city
parking permit so revoked shall constitute an infraction.
      3.   In the event the parking permit coordinator has good cause to
believe that any person or entity is abusing the guest permit system described
above, he/she shall so notify the permit holder in writing. Further abuse may
result in the revocation of guest permits.
      4.   Any person aggrieved by such a determination made by the parking
permit coordinator under subsection J1, J2, or J3 of this section shall have
the right to appeal to the chief of police within seven (7) days of such
determination.
   K.   Lost Or Stolen Permits: Lost or stolen permits shall be reported to the
parking permit coordinator. The parking permit coordinator shall notify parking
enforcement agency of any lost or stolen permits and issue new permits to
eligible residents or businesses. (Ord. 00-34 § 1, 7-5-2000)
10.52.220: CUTTING THROUGH CORNERS:
No driver of a motor vehicle, motorcycle or vehicle of any kind shall drive
through any private driveway or private property, such as an oil station or lot
or similar area, whether vacant or not, with intent to avoid obedience to any
traffic regulation set forth in this title; and no person shall drive a motor
vehicle, motorcycle or any other vehicle through any private driveway, lot or
similar area where any business establishment, manufactory, retail store,
drugstore, cafe, confectionery, drive in food and drink establishment, or drive
in market or any other kind of business or trade is maintained or carried on
for the purpose and with the intent of avoiding obedience to any traffic
regulation or for the purpose and with the intent of harassing and annoying the
owner thereof or the owner's patrons. (Prior code § 42-14-25)
10.52.230: STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (Prior code § 42-14-27)
10.52.240: PARKING IN DITCHES:
It is unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any ditch or gutter in such
a manner as to hinder the free flow of the full stream of water through such
ditch or gutter. (Prior code § 42-14-28)
10.52.250: PLACING NO PARKING SIGNS PROHIBITED:
No person shall, without the permission of the chief of police, place or cause
to be placed on any street or sidewalk or on any building any sign preventing
or forbidding the parking of vehicles in the street in front of any building or
place of business. (Prior code § 42-14-29)
10.52.260: PUBLIC PARKING AREAS:
   A.   Definition: "Public parking area" means any land within the corporate
limits of the city, other than public streets owned by or under the supervision
and control of the city, county or any instrumentality of the state or federal
government, which has been specifically designated or made available for off
street parking purposes for the public at large or for a particularly limited
or specified purpose.
   B.   Signs Regulating Parking: The chief of police of the city, is
authorized to cause to be placed upon public parking areas within the city
appropriate signs regulating parking thereon, including regulations pertaining
to the maximum duration during which parking is allowed, periods of time when
parking may be prohibited, specified uses for particular parking facilities,
the designation of certain parking spaces for municipal, county, state or
federal employees and other matters pertaining to the efficient regulation and
control of public parking areas.
   C.   Unlawful: When signs are in place in public parking areas controlling
or regulating parking thereon and have been so placed in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, it is unlawful to park any vehicle in a public
parking area within the city in violation of the direction given by such signs.
(Ord. 02-27 § 2, 2002: prior code § 42-14-31)
10.52.270: EXCESSIVE NOISE AND POLLUTION:
   A.   Every person operating or having control of a motor vehicle that is
stopped, standing or parked within the city shall control the noise of the
motor and muffler thereof so that at all times the noise level of such motor
and muffler is less than eighty five (85) decibels measured at a distance of
fifty feet (50') from such vehicle.
   B.   No person operating or having control of a vehicle shall permit the
engine of such vehicle to operate for more than two (2) minutes while such
vehicle is stationary except when the local temperature as reported by the
United States weather bureau is below zero degrees Fahrenheit (0°F). This
section does not apply to idling by on duty police officers or firefighters as
necessary for the performance of their official duties. This section does not
apply to vehicles owned by the city of Logan as necessary to operate equipment
in the performance of official duties.
   C.   The purpose of this subsection is to comply with the requirements
imposed by the state legislature in Utah code 41-6a-208. The intent of this
section is to be primarily educational. A person must be issued at least one
(1) warning citation before a fine may be imposed. The fine shall be a civil
penalty of forty dollars ($40.00) and imposed as set forth in section
10.52.290 of this chapter. Law enforcement personnel who enforce this section
shall follow all Logan City police policies regarding safety while enforcing
this section. This section may only be enforced on public property or on
private property that is open to the general public. If the private property
owner has a private business that has a drive-through service as a component of
the private property owner’s business operations this section is only
enforceable if the owner posts a sign provided by or acceptable to the local
highway authority informing its customers and the public of the local highway
authority’s time limit for idling vehicle engines or adopts an idle reduction
education policy approved by the local highway authority. (Ord. 14-16, 2014;
amd. Ord. 23-12, 4-18-2023)
10.52.280: HANDICAPPED PARKING:
Only those vehicles carrying a distinctive (logo) handicapped license plate or
transferable identification card may park in a parking space which is clearly
identified as reserved for use by the handicapped. This section applies to and
may be enforced on public property and on private property which is used or
intended for use by the public. (Ord. 90-50 § 3, 1990: prior code § 42-14-32)
10.52.285: REGULATION OF PRIVATE BOOTING AND TOWING PRACTICES:
   A.   Definitions:
      ABANDONED VEHICLE: A vehicle that is left unattended on a highway for a
period in excess of forty eight (48) hours; or on any public or private
property for a period in excess of seven (7) days without express or implied
consent of the owner or person in lawful possession or control of the property.
      AUTHORIZED VEHICLE: A motor vehicle parked on private property for which
permission has been granted to park such vehicle.
      BOOT: Any temporary immobilization device used for purposes of enforcing
parking restrictions.
      BOOTING: To place any immobilization device upon a motor vehicle not
registered to the person placing the immobilization device for purposes of
parking enforcement.
      NONCONSENSUAL TOWING: The towing of a vehicle without the prior consent
of the owner of the vehicle or at the request of law enforcement.
      PARKING ENFORCEMENT COMPANY OR ENFORCEMENT COMPANY: A person or business
entity engaged in the practice of booting for the purpose of enforcing parking
restrictions either on public streets, private property or public parking lots
restricted as to use.
      PARKING ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS: The business of enforcing parking
regulations for compensation within the corporate limits of Logan City by
booting motor vehicles.
      PARKING ENFORCEMENT VEHICLE: Any vehicle that is used by a parking
enforcement company in the course of parking enforcement operations.
      PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, or any other type of business entity or association.
      TOW OR TOWING: To utilize any automotive vehicle to pull, load, carry or
otherwise transport another automotive vehicle or vehicle trailer over a public
highway or road. A tow begins when the tow operator exercises any control over
the vehicle by means of a crane, hoist, tow bar, tow line, chain or dolly.
      TOW TRUCK: A motor vehicle which has been altered or designed, equipped
and primarily used for the purpose of towing or carrying vehicles by means of a
crane, hoist, tow bar, tow line, chain, or dolly.
      TOWING COMPANY: A person or business entity engaged in the practice of
towing vehicles.
      TOWING OPERATIONS: The business of towing motor vehicles for compensation
within the corporate limits of Logan City, whether or not the towing extends
beyond the city limits. Such business shall also include the storage of towed
vehicles, pending their return to the owner of the vehicle by the towing
company or parking enforcement company.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to any parking regulations as
established by a college or university pursuant to title 53B, chapter 3, Utah
Code Annotated.
   C.   Certification And Licensing Requirements:
      1.   Tow Truck Certification Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in commercial towing operations within the corporate limits of
Logan City unless the person has been certified by the Utah department of
transportation as a towing company. The city may revoke or suspend the business
license of any towing company that fails to obtain or maintain a valid state
certification.
      2.   Business License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in commercial towing operations or parking enforcement operations within
the corporate limits of Logan City unless the person operating such business
has obtained a business license from Logan City.
      3.   Business License Application: In addition to applicable business
license requirements in title 5 of this code, towing companies and parking
enforcement companies shall file an application for a business license with the
following:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant and each officer, partner,
member and registered agent of the applicant;
         b.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant's
principal place of business;
         c.   A copy of the current Utah department of transportation
certification issued to the towing company;
         d.   An original or copy, dated no more than one hundred eighty (180)
days prior to the date of the application, of a Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification verified criminal history report
personal to the applicant and all employees. The foregoing information must be
submitted to Logan City within fourteen (14) days after a new officer, agent or
employee is permitted to engage in any towing or booting related activity. A
tow or parking enforcement company may not employ individuals involved in the
practice of booting or towing vehicles who have criminal convictions of, or
have current pending charges for: 1) felony homicide; 2) physically or sexually
abusing or exploiting a minor; 3) the sale or distribution of a controlled
substance; or 4) sexual assault of any kind. In addition, said officer, agent
or employee shall not have been convicted of any crime within the past ten (10)
years involving moral turpitude or violent or aggravated conduct against
persons or property;
         e.   Evidence of compliance with the insurance requirements of this
section;
         f.   A current schedule of fees;
         g.   Copies of contracts with, or authorizations from, property
owners/managers for parking enforcement operations.
   D.   Requirements For Conducting Business: Persons conducting towing or
parking enforcement services in the city shall do the following:
      1.   If the company has tow trucks, comply with the current Utah
department of transportation rules and regulations for tow truck operators and
maintain a Utah department of transportation certificate for each tow truck
during the term of the license;
      2.   Provide a certificate of insurance showing proof of valid insurance
which meets the following requirements:
         a.   Issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the
state of Utah;
         b.   A general liability insurance policy with a combined single limit
for bodily injury and property damage for each occurrence of at least two
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00);
         c.   An aggregate limit for all occurrences for each policy year of at
least two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00);
         d.   An automobile liability insurance policy covering the applicant
and the applicant's employees for vehicles owned, hired, or otherwise used in
the applicant's business with a combined single limit for each occurrence of at
least two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00);
         e.   The company shall notify Logan City of any termination or change
in the policy. Failure to do so shall be grounds for suspension or revocation
of the company's business license;
      3.   Affix readable signs on the doors of any tow truck vehicle listing
the applicant's business name, address and telephone number;
      4.   Provide competent evidence that the towing company stores motor
vehicles in a secured fenced area, enclosed yard or building;
      5.   Ensure that all personnel operating tow trucks are carrying within
each vehicle a current certification card issued by the Utah department of
transportation and a valid Utah driver's license which authorizes operating a
tow truck. Parking enforcement companies which do not utilize towing services
shall ensure that their personnel carry a valid Utah driver's license and a
company identification card identifying the driver as an employee of the
parking enforcement company;
      6.   On or before December 31 of each year, towing or parking enforcement
companies shall file with Logan City the following:
         a.   A current copy of the towing company's Utah department of
transportation certification;
         b.   A current list of names and birth dates of employees who will
have access to vehicles;
         c.   Current proof of insurance;
         d.   A current schedule of fees; and
         e.   Copies of all written contracts with, or authorizations from,
property owners or designees for parking enforcement operations;
      7.   Every parking enforcement company and towing company licensed or
registered and providing services pursuant to this section shall post in a
conspicuous place upon its business premises a true copy of this section;
      8.   Every parking enforcement company and towing company shall inform
Logan City of any change in ownership, management, business name, address,
telephone number, or fee schedule.
   E.   Booting Or Towing Of Vehicles On Private Property: It shall be unlawful
for any property owner or designee to boot or tow any motor vehicle that is
trespassing or infringing upon the real property rights of that property owner
without complying with this section.
      1.   Property owners or designees which use booting or towing of vehicles
for parking enforcement shall comply with the following requirements unless
parking is prohibited by law at the location or it is reasonably apparent that
the location is not open to parking:
         a.   Signage: At a minimum, signage shall:
            (1)   Provide sufficient information to inform vehicle owners of
parking requirements and restrictions and to assist vehicle owners in the
prompt recovery of any vehicle which has been towed or booted. Sign information
shall include the following:
               (A)   Give warning, in large reflective lettering or reflective
background, that unauthorized vehicles may be towed or booted;
               (B)   Give the name and telephone number(s) of the businesses
authorized to conduct a towing or parking enforcement operation on the
property; and
            (2)   Be at least twelve inches by eighteen inches (12" x 18") in
size;
            (3)   Be placed in compliance with one of the following
alternatives:
               (A)   For parking lots with entrance widths of twenty four feet
(24') or less, within eight feet (8') of all entrances to the parking lot and
be clearly readable from the entrances;
               (B)   Between each individual parking stall and be clearly
readable upon entering the parking stall; or
               (C)   If the entrance to the parking lot exceeds twenty four
feet (24'), or if there is no designated entrance, at intervals or locations
approved by the city of Logan designed to give reasonable notice to a person
entering the parking lot.
         b.   Identification: Persons involved in the towing or booting shall:
            (1)   Wear either a readily identifiable shirt, blouse or other top
article of clothing with the name of the licensee and the first name of the
employee contained thereon and readable from a distance of six feet (6') or a
prominently visible identification badge on the front of his or her clothing
with the name of the licensee and the first name of the employee contained
thereon and readable from a distance of six feet (6').
            (2)   Have in their possession on the site where the vehicle is
immobilized either a copy of the current valid written contract with the
property owner authorizing the immobilization or impounding of vehicles parked
upon the property without permission or a statement of authorization from the
property owner. The contract or authorization shall be shown upon demand by a
city official or the person redeeming the vehicle.
         c.   Operational Restrictions: Persons involved in booting or towing
shall not:
            (1)   Place an immobilization device on a vehicle without placing a
secured notice on the driver's door window using words and/or symbols that
reasonably inform the driver that the vehicle has been immobilized.
            (2)   Place the immobilization device on the vehicle or tow the
vehicle if the owner of the vehicle arrives prior to the placement of the
immobilization device or tow of the vehicle.
            (3)   Place the immobilization device on the passenger side of the
vehicle, unless it is not reasonably possible to place said device on the
driver side.
      2.   After a boot is placed on any vehicle, the parking enforcement
company shall:
         a.   Provide a notice affixed to the vehicle containing the name and
telephone number of the firm that placed the boot on the vehicle, as well as
the amount of the fee required to remove the boot;
         b.   Have personnel authorized to remove the boot at the location of
the booted vehicle within ninety (90) minutes of a request made to the
enforcement company by the owner or authorized agent of the booted vehicle. The
parking enforcement company's obligation to have personnel authorized to remove
a boot at the location of the booted vehicle within ninety (90) minutes of a
request made may be excused if personnel are reasonably prevented by severe
weather, severe traffic congestion, war, hostility, riot, or other act of God.
No criminal sanctions under this code may be imposed against a parking
enforcement company for the violation of this subsection. No fees for the
removal of the boot shall be payable if a parking enforcement company violates
this subsection;
         c.   Accept a charge placed upon valid major credit or debit cards as
payment for the fee if the person who is redeeming the vehicle prefers to pay
with a card instead of cash. The parking enforcement company shall maintain
sufficient cash on hand to make change necessary to complete the transaction;
         d.   Once payment is made, offer to provide a receipt to the
individual making payment for removal of the boot.
   F.   Fees: Any parking enforcement company desiring to boot vehicles within
Logan City shall comply with and is subject to the following requirements:
      1.   A parking enforcement company shall not charge a fee in excess of
any fee listed in the fee schedule for booting a vehicle. A vehicle shall be
released immediately upon payment of any required fees authorized by this
section. No other parking enforcement fee shall be charged as a condition of
releasing a booted vehicle.
      2.   The total maximum fees and charges for booting or otherwise
immobilizing a vehicle is the maximum amount permitted by Utah code section 41-
6a-1409, as amended. The total maximum fees and charges for towing a vehicle is
the maximum permitted by Utah administrative code (subsequent days of storage
may be charged in accordance with the rules and rates set forth in Utah
administrative code R. 909-19-1 et seq.). If an immobilized vehicle is towed,
no fee of any kind relating to the booting may be charged in addition to
towing, storage or other applicable fees. If a vehicle is towed or booted
unlawfully, no fees shall be payable.
      3.   Charges for damages to booting equipment shall not be governed by
this section and shall not prevent the vehicle's release if scheduled fees are
satisfied.
      4.   Failure to comply with any provision of this section shall
constitute grounds for suspension or revocation of the business license of any
company licensed under this section to conduct parking enforcement service in
Logan City.
   G.   Private Parking Enforcement: Landlords or property owners who engage a
private parking enforcement or tow company to boot or tow illegally parked
vehicles on their property shall inform their tenants of the booting or towing
practice and make available instructions on how to comply with the law.
      1.   When parking permits are used, a parking permit shall be provided to
each tenant, for a charge or for no charge, at the discretion of the landlord
or property owner, with instructions as to where that permit should be
displayed in the automobile;
      2.   Tenants shall be provided with a written schedule of fees charged by
the parking enforcement company and/or towing company;
      3.   Tenants shall be provided with instructions regarding visitor
parking or will be informed if no visitor parking is available;
      4.   Tenants shall be provided with a method for replacing a lost permit;
landlords or property owners may charge a fee for such replacement; the
replacement fee must be made known to tenants at the time they receive their
parking permits.
   H.   Violation: Excepting subsection E2b of this section, the violation of
any provision of this section is a Class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 16-23, 2016)
10.52.290: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Person Liable For Civil Penalty: Any person engaged in the unauthorized
stopping, standing or parking of a vehicle within the City shall be liable for
a civil penalty. Any penalty assessed herein may be in addition to such other
penalties as may be provided in this title.
   B.   Civil Penalties:
      1.   Civil penalties shall be imposed as follows:
Section Penalty
Section      Penalty
10.52.010A1  $ 40.00
10.52.010A2  45.00
10.52.010A3  45.00
10.52.010A4  45.00
10.52.010A5  45.00
10.52.010A6  45.00
10.52.010A7  45.00
10.52.010A8  45.00
10.52.010A9  45.00
10.52.010A10 45.00
10.52.010A11 45.00
10.52.010A12 45.00
10.52.010A13 40.00
10.52.010A14 40.00
10.52.010A15 40.00
10.52.010A16 40.00
10.52.010A17 45.00
10.52.010A18 45.00
10.52.010A19 45.00
10.52.010A20 40.00
10.52.010A21 45.00
10.52.010C   45.00
10.52.020    40.00
10.52.030    45.00
10.52.150    45.00
10.52.160    45.00
10.52.170    40.00
10.52.180    40.00
10.52.190    45.00
10.52.210    40.00
10.52.240    40.00
10.52.260    40.00
10.52.280    200.00
17.38.080    40.00
 
      2.   Any penalties that are paid within ten (10) normal working days from
the date of receipt of notice shall be reduced by the sum of twenty dollars
($20.00) except for violations of section
10.52.280 of this chapter for parking in a space reserved for handicapped
individuals which shall be reduced by the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00).
      3.   As used in this section, "receipt of notice" means the affixing of a
notice to the vehicle alleged to have been employed in such unauthorized
stopping, standing or parking or by delivery of such notice to the owner or
driver thereof.
   C.   Exceptions: Whenever a vehicle shall have been employed in the
unauthorized stopping, standing or parking on the streets within the City, the
person or persons in whose name such vehicle is registered shall be strictly
liable for such unauthorized stopping, standing or parking and the penalty
therefor. Except that the person or persons in whose name such vehicle is
registered shall not be liable for a civil penalty for violations of
subsections
10.52.010B and
10.52.270A, or sections
10.52.140,
10.52.220,
10.52.230, and
10.52.250 of this chapter. Penalties for violations of subsections
10.52.010B and
10.52.270A, or sections
10.52.140,
10.52.220,
10.52.230, and
10.52.250 of this chapter shall be imposed as provided in subsection D of this
section.
   D.   Fine: Any person who violates any of the provisions of subsections
10.52.010B and
10.52.270A, or sections
10.52.140,
10.52.220,
10.52.230, and
10.52.250 of this chapter shall, for each and every violation and compliance,
be guilty of an infraction, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined a sum
not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense or violation. (Ord. 19-
05, 2019)
CHAPTER 10.56
MISCELLANEOUS RULES
SECTION:
Article I. Registration
10.56.010: Vehicles
10.56.020: Mutilation
10.56.030: Certificate To Be Carried And Exhibited
Article II. Minors
10.56.040: Permitting Unlicensed Minor To Drive; Violation; Penalty
Article III. Vehicle Regulations
10.56.050: Interference With Vehicle
10.56.060: Tampering With Vehicle
10.56.070: Attaching Sled Unlawful
10.56.080: Devices To Increase Noise Forbidden
10.56.090: Use Of Horn
Article IV. Traffic Regulations
10.56.100: Drivers To Obey Islands Or Markers
10.56.110: Driver To Maintain Prudent Speed With Regard To Possible Hazards
10.56.120: Duty To Keep Proper Lookout
10.56.130: Backing
10.56.140: Vehicles On Sidewalk Prohibited
10.56.150: Vehicles On New Pavement Prohibited
10.56.160: Stopping, Standing, Parking Prohibited Where
10.56.170: Moving Trailers; Occupancy Prohibited
10.56.180: Funeral Procession
10.56.190: Funeral Identification; Right Of Way
10.56.200: Funerals Keep To The Right
10.56.210: Seating
Article V. Vehicle Businesses
10.56.220: Information And Records
10.56.230: Vehicles For Hire; Business Records
10.56.240: Unlawful To Buy Vehicles With Serial Number Removed
Article VI. Motorcycles And Other Vehicles
10.56.250: Riders
10.56.260: In Traffic Lanes
ARTICLE I. REGISTRATION
10.56.010: VEHICLES:
Every vehicle, at all times while being driven, stopped or parked upon the
streets or alleys of the city, shall be registered in the name of the owner
thereof in accordance with the laws of the state, unless such vehicle is not
required by the laws of the state to be registered in this state, and shall
display in proper position valid and unexpired registration plates or indicia
of registration meeting the requirements of the laws of the state, clear and
distinct and free from defacement, mutilation, grease and other obscuring
matter, so as to be plainly visible and legible at all times; provided,
however, if such vehicle is not required to be registered in this state, the
indicia of registration issued by another state, territory, possession or
district of the United States or a foreign country, substantially complying
with the provisions of this chapter, shall be considered as compliance with
this title. (Prior code § 42-15-36)
10.56.020: MUTILATION:
No person shall repaint, mutilate, obscure or in any other manner alter any
lawful evidence of registration displayed by any vehicle in the city. (Prior
code § 42-15-37)
10.56.030: CERTIFICATE TO BE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED:
The current, valid registration certificate of every motor vehicle shall at all
times be carried in the vehicle to which it refers or shall be carried by the
person driving or in control of such vehicle who shall display the same upon
demand of a police officer. (Prior code § 42-15-38)
ARTICLE II. MINORS
10.56.040: PERMITTING UNLICENSED MINOR TO DRIVE; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to cause or knowingly permit any minor
under the age of eighteen (18) years to drive a motor vehicle upon a highway as
an operator unless such minor shall have first obtained a license to so drive a
motor vehicle under the provisions of the licensing act of the state.
   B.   Penalty provisions pertaining to violations of this code are found in
chapter 1.16 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code § 42-15-42)
ARTICLE III. VEHICLE REGULATIONS
10.56.050: INTERFERENCE WITH VEHICLE:
No person shall engage in any activity or do any act which interferes with the
safe operation of any vehicle. (Prior code § 42-15-11)
10.56.060: TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE:
No person shall climb upon or into or swing upon or hold onto the outside of
any motor vehicle whether the same is in motion or at rest, sound any horn or
any other signaling device or attempt to manipulate any of the levers, the
starter, the brakes or machinery thereof, or set such vehicle in motion or
damage, tamper or interfere with the same. This provision shall not apply to
persons with authority of the owner or the person lawfully in charge of a motor
vehicle while such motor vehicle is at rest. (Prior code § 42-15-12)
10.56.070: ATTACHING SLED UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for the driver, or any person in charge of any vehicle to
knowingly drive or operate such vehicle upon any of the streets of the city
while any sled, toboggan or sleigh is attached to or connected with such
vehicle, or to permit any sled or other similar conveyance to be attached to or
connected with the vehicle upon any of the streets of the city. (Prior code §
42-15-26)
10.56.080: DEVICES TO INCREASE NOISE FORBIDDEN:
No person shall sell, furnish, provide or purchase, nor shall any person attach
to any vehicle any device which will or is intended to increase the sound of
the original muffling equipment on any motor vehicle. (Prior code § 42-15-22)
10.56.090: USE OF HORN:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonable and necessary to ensure
safe operation, give audible warning with his or her horn, but the driver shall
not otherwise use the horn. (Prior code § 42-15-23)
ARTICLE IV. TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
10.56.100: DRIVERS TO OBEY ISLANDS OR MARKERS:
When authorized islands, markers or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such indications. (Prior
code § 42-15-29)
10.56.110: DRIVER TO MAINTAIN PRUDENT SPEED WITH REGARD TO POSSIBLE HAZARDS:
No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed which is greater than is reasonable
and prudent with regard to the actual and potential hazards existing and shall
drive at a safe and appropriate speed when approaching intersections or
railroad grade crossings and when approaching and going around a curve,
approaching a hillcrest, traveling upon narrow or winding roads where special
hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic by reason of weather
or other highway conditions. (1989 Code: prior code § 42-15-14)
10.56.120: DUTY TO KEEP PROPER LOOKOUT:
No person shall drive a vehicle on the streets of this city without keeping a
reasonable and proper lookout for other traffic, objects, fixtures or property
thereon or adjacent thereto. (Prior code § 42-15-10)
10.56.130: BACKING:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic, pedestrians
or parked vehicles.
   B.   No vehicle shall be backed into or around a corner of any intersection.
   C.   The driver of any vehicle while backing such vehicle from a driveway or
from a parked position onto a street with a marked centerline thereon shall not
back across the centerline, but shall back only into the nearest traffic lane
and shall then proceed forward only in the direction of proper traffic travel
for such lane of traffic. (Prior code § 42-15-2)
10.56.140: VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to drive, back, ride or cause to be driven,
backed or ridden any vehicle upon, over or across any public curbing, public or
private lawn or flower garden, public sidewalk in the city; provided, however,
that a vehicle may be driven, backed or ridden over and across a public
sidewalk at any duly constructed or prepared driveway. (Prior code § 42-15-27)
10.56.150: VEHICLES ON NEW PAVEMENT PROHIBITED:
No person shall drive, ride or cause to be driven or ridden any animal, or
ride, drive or propel or cause to be ridden, driven or propelled any vehicle
over or across any newly made pavement in any public street, across or around
which pavement there is a barrier, or at, over or near which there is a person
or a sign warning persons not to drive over or across such pavement or a sign
stating that the street is closed. (Prior code § 42-15-28)
10.56.160: STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING PROHIBITED WHERE:
When official signs or markings are erected at hazardous or congested places,
no persons shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in such designated place. (Prior
code § 42-15-30)
10.56.170: MOVING TRAILERS; OCCUPANCY PROHIBITED:
No person shall occupy a trailer of any nature while it is being moved upon the
street nor shall the driver of a vehicle towing such trailer permit such
occupancy. (Prior code § 42-15-3)
10.56.180: FUNERAL PROCESSION:
No driver of a vehicle should drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
procession when such procession is accompanied by an adequate police escort or
escort service while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated as required in this title, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer. This provision shall not apply to drivers of
authorized emergency vehicles. (Prior code § 42-15-18)
10.56.190: FUNERAL IDENTIFICATION; RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Each motor vehicle participating in a funeral procession, when
accompanied by an adequate police escort or escort service, shall display
illuminated headlights thereon and shall follow not more than thirty feet (30')
behind the next proceeding motor vehicle in such funeral procession; and such
vehicles so identified shall have the right of way at any street intersection
over all other vehicles, except authorized emergency vehicles. For the purposes
of this section and section
10.56.180 of this chapter, the term "adequate police escort or escort service"
means a police escort or other escort service consisting of two (2) escort
vehicles or one escort vehicle for each twenty five (25) vehicles included in
the funeral procession, whichever is less.
   B.   All motor vehicles in a funeral procession, when accompanied by an
adequate police escort or escort service, operated in compliance with this
section and section
10.56.180 of this chapter, may proceed past a red or stop signal, provided such
movement is made with due caution and circumspection, and other vehicles shall
yield the right of way to such vehicles. If no police escort or escort service
is provided, the funeral procession must obey all traffic regulations and
traffic control devices. (Prior code § 42-15-19)
10.56.200: FUNERALS KEEP TO THE RIGHT:
Each driver in a funeral procession shall drive as near to the right hand edge
of the roadway as possible unless a left turn is contemplated. (Prior code §
42-15-20)
10.56.210: SEATING:
   A.   It is unlawful for the operator any motor vehicle to have in his or her
lap, any other person or animal or to be seated in the lap of any other person
while the vehicle is in motion.
   B.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle unless all occupants of said
motor vehicle are properly seated.
   C.   No person shall ride in a motor vehicle unless properly seated.
   D.   For the purpose of this section, persons are properly seated when they
are seated in a seat designed for passenger seating and in which safety
restraints are provided; or if riding in the rear of a pickup truck are seated
on the floor portion of the truck bed and tailgate of the truck is closed.
   E.   This section shall not apply to persons standing in public or
commercial buses or to employees engaged in the necessary discharge of their
duties. (Ord. 96-3 § 1, 1996: Ord. 95-11 § 1, 1995: prior code § 42-15-16)
ARTICLE V. VEHICLE BUSINESSES
10.56.220: INFORMATION AND RECORDS:
   A.   No registered owner and no person in possession of any vehicle shall
permit another person to drive the same without first ascertaining the name and
address of such other person and that he or she is legally licensed to operate
such vehicle.
   B.   Every person renting, leasing or hiring a motor vehicle to another
person shall keep a record of the vehicle license number of the motor vehicle
so rented, the name and address of the person, the number of the person's
operator's license and the date and place when and where such vehicle
operator's license was issued. Such record shall be open to inspection by any
peace officer.
   C.   The information and records required by this section shall be furnished
to any peace officer for police purposes on demand. (Prior code § 42-15-24)
10.56.230: VEHICLES FOR HIRE; BUSINESS RECORDS:
Every person engaged in the business, including the operating of a taxicab or
auto delivery business, of renting or hiring out motor vehicles, as well as the
driver so employed or engaged in the driving of any motor vehicle used in any
such business, shall keep a true and correct record of every trip made by each
such driver so employed, while the business is operated. The record shall show
the exact time when his employment ended and the place where his passenger, or
if more than one, where each passenger was discharged, which record shall at
all times be open to inspection and copying by any police officer of this city
upon demand. (Prior code § 42-15-25)
10.56.240: UNLAWFUL TO BUY VEHICLES WITH SERIAL NUMBER REMOVED:
It is unlawful for any person to buy, sell, receive or dispose of, conceal or
have in such person's possession any bicycle or motor vehicle from which the
manufacturer's serial or motor number or other identification mark has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, obliterated or destroyed. (Prior code § 42-
15-41)
ARTICLE VI. MOTORCYCLES AND OTHER VEHICLES
10.56.250: RIDERS:
   A.   A person operating a motorcycle or motor driven cycle shall ride only
upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto and such operator shall
not carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle or a
motor driven cycle unless such vehicle is designed to carry more than one
person, in which event a passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular
seat, if designed for two (2) persons, or upon another seat firmly attached to
the motorcycle or motor driven cycle at the rear or side of the operator.
   B.   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle or motor driven cycle only while
sitting astride the seat, facing forward, with one leg on either side of the
motorcycle or motor driven cycle.
   C.   No person shall operate a motorcycle or motor driven cycle while
carrying any package, bundle or other article which prevents such person from
keeping both hands on the handlebars.
   D.   No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride, in a
position that will interfere with the operation or control of the motorcycle or
motor driven cycle or the view of the operator.
   E.   No person riding upon a motorcycle or motor driven cycle shall attach
herself or himself to any other vehicle on a roadway. (Prior code § 42-15-39)
10.56.260: IN TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   All motorcycles and motor driven cycles are entitled to full use of a
lane and no motor vehicle shall be driven in such a manner as to deprive any
motorcycle or motor driven cycle of the full use of a lane. This subsection
shall not apply to motorcycles or motor driven cycles operated two (2) abreast
in a single lane.
   B.   The operator of a motorcycle or motor driven cycle shall not overtake
and pass in the same lane occupied by the vehicle being overtaken.
   C.   No person shall operate a motorcycle or motor driven cycle between
lanes of traffic, or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
   D.   Motorcycles or motor driven cycles shall not be operated more than two
(2) abreast in a single lane.
   E.   Subsections B and C of this section shall not apply to police officers
in the performance of their official duties. (Prior code § 42-15-40)
CHAPTER 10.60
VEHICLE WEIGHTS AND CLASS LIMITATIONS 1
SECTION:
10.60.010: Canyon Road
10.60.020: West Center Street
 
Notes
1 1. Prior history: Prior code § 42-16-32.
10.60.010: CANYON ROAD:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drive or operate
a vehicle of over eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds' gross weight, including
any lean therein or thereon, on or over that certain street designated as
Canyon Road and located between the intersection of U.S. Highway 89 and Canyon
Road and the intersection of Center Street and Canyon Road. It is unlawful to
park any vehicle of over eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds' gross weight or to
allow such vehicle to stand upon Canyon Road.
   B.   Any police officer or the city having reason to believe that the weight
of a vehicle and load is unlawful is authorized to require the driver to drive
the vehicle to the nearest public scales in the city for the purpose of
weighing such vehicle.
   C.   The weight limitations prescribed by subsection A of this section shall
not apply to any emergency firefighting apparatus or any public vehicle or
public utility vehicle required to utilize the road to provide services or
repair public service facilities or properties. (Ord. 05-97 § 1, 2005)
10.60.020: WEST CENTER STREET:
   A.   No person shall operate any commercial vehicle on West Center Street
between Main Street and 6th West except while on a trip with a point of origin
from or destination on West Center Street.
   B.   "Commercial vehicle" means a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer,
other than public safety, education, municipal and municipal purpose vehicles,
used or maintained for the transportation of persons or property that operates
as a carrier for hire, compensation or profit; or as a carrier to transport the
vehicle owner's goods or property in furtherance of the owner's commercial
enterprise; and having a gross weight of ten thousand (10,000) pounds or more.
(Ord. 05-97 § 1, 2005)
CHAPTER 10.64
VIOLATION; PENALTY
(Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
CHAPTER 10.68
BICYCLES AND MICROMOBILITY DEVICES
SECTION:
Article I. General Regulations
10.68.010: Definition
10.68.020: Duties Of Parents And Guardians
10.68.030: Operation
10.68.040: Bicycle Registration
10.68.050: Traffic Laws Apply To Persons Riding Micromobility
10.68.060: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
10.68.070: Speed
10.68.080: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
10.68.090: Clinging To Vehicles
10.68.100: Riding In A Group
10.68.110: Safe Operations
10.68.120: Riding On Roadways
10.68.130: Bike Lanes And Shared Use Trails
10.68.140: Micromobility Parking
10.68.150: Riding On Sidewalks And Within Crosswalks
10.68.160: Passing Other Vehicles
10.68.170: Dismount Not Required When Stopping
10.68.180: Turn Signals
10.68.190: Reckless Or Inattentive Operation
10.68.200: Violation; Penalty
10.68.210: Tampering Restrictions
10.68.220: Severability
10.68.230: Shared Micromobility Device Program
ARTICLE I. GENERAL REGULATIONS
10.68.010: DEFINITION:
The following words shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicated or requires a different meaning:
ACTIVE          Personal transportation in an active way where an individual self-
TRANSPORTATION: propels or is e-assisted.
                Every vehicle having two (2) tandem wheels, or two (2) parallel wheels
BICYCLE:        and one (1) forward wheel, any two of which are not less than twelve
                (12) inches in diameter, propelled exclusively by human power upon
                which any person may ride, except scooters and similar devices.
                A bike corral means a bicycle and micromobility device parking facility
BIKE CORRAL:    that can accommodate a large group of devices typically installed on-
                street in lieu of a single vehicle parking stall (parallel or angled).
                A portion of a roadway designated for preferential or exclusive use by
                bicycles, E-bikes, or E-scooters that is distinguished from that
BIKE LANE:      portion of the roadway to be used by motor vehicles by a painted
                stripe, other pavement markings, flexible post delineators, other
                delineators, concrete, or signage.
BIKE RACK:      A secure object to which bicycles and micromobility devices can be
                attached to for orderly parking and securing purposes.
                A voluntary association legally formed and organized to carry on a
BUSINESS:       business in the state of Utah in the legal name of the association,
                including; corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships, and
                sole proprietorships.
CITY:           The governmental institution and landmass contained within the
                boundaries of Logan, Utah.
CONCESSIONAIRE: A person or business with whom the City has contracted to provide
                shared mobility device services.
                A designated area posted as prohibited for micromobility devices to
DISMOUNT ZONE:  operate. Persons are required to dismount from their device and walk
                through the area.
                A range of small, lightweight vehicles operating at speeds below twenty
E-ASSISTED      (20) miles per hour and driven by users personally. E-assisted micro-
MICROMOBILITY   mobility devices typically include electric bicycles, electric
DEVICES ("E-    scooters, electric skateboards, hoverboards, segways, one wheels, and
devices"):      electric pedal assisted bicycles. Assistive mobility devices such as
                powered wheelchairs are not e-assisted micromobility devices for
                purposes of this chapter.
                A vehicle having two (2) tandem wheels or two (2) parallel wheels and
                one (1) forward wheel, any two of which are not less than twelve (12)
ELECTRIC POWER- inches in diameter, that is designed to be operated by human power with
ASSISTED        the assistance of an electric motor that has a power output of not more
BICYCLE ("E-    than seven hundred fifty (750) watts that: (i) is incapable of
bike"):         propelling the vehicle at a speed of more than twenty (20) miles per
                hour; and (ii) disengages or ceases to function when the vehicle's
                brakes are applied. An E-bike is not a motor vehicle for purposes of
                this Chapter.
                A two (2) wheeled device that has handlebars, has a floorboard that is
                designed to be stood upon when riding, and is powered by an electric
ELECTRIC POWER- motor that has a power output of not more than three hundred and fifty
ASSISTED        (350) watts that: (i) is incapable of propelling the device at a speed
SCOOTER ("E-    of more than twenty (20) miles per hour; and (ii) disengages or ceases
scooter"):      to function when the device's brakes are applied. An E-scooter is not a
                motor vehicle for purposes of this Chapter. An E-scooter does not
                include any power-driven device used by individuals with mobility
                disabilities for the purpose of locomotion.
                That portion of the charge for rental of shared mobility device that is
FARE:           automatically calculated by an app or comparable technology through the
                operation of the mileage and/or time mechanism.
IN-SERVICE:     A shared mobility device that is deployed for use on the streets of the
                City.
MARKED OR       A public place in the City which has been designated for the exclusive
VIRTUAL DOCKING deployment of shared mobility devices and has been marked in a manner
STATION:        that identifies such docking stations as being set aside for that
                purpose.
                A wide range of small, lightweight vehicles operating at speeds
                typically below 20 miles per hour and driven by users personally.
MICROMOBILITY   Micromobility devices includes, but is not limited to, bicycles,
DEVICE:         scooters, electric bikes, electric scooters, electric skateboards,
                shared bicycles, skateboards, rollerblades, other personal
                transportation devices but does not include gas powered scooters,
                motorcycles or mo-peds or other similar gas-powered devises.
                An operator is the entity that has entered into legally binding
OPERATOR:       language with the City to permit the use of their devices on City
                right-of-ways.
SCOOTER:        A lightweight two-wheeled device ridden on a footboard mounted between
                the wheels and propelled by pushing off with one foot from the ground.
                A bicycle, electric power-assisted bicycle, or electric power-assisted
SHARED MOBILITY scooter or similar mobility device made available to the public for
DEVICE:         rent. This definition does not include motorcycles, mopeds, or any
                power-driven device used by individuals with mobility disabilities for
                the purpose of locomotion.
SHARED MOBILITY The offering of either docked or dockless shared mobility device for
DEVICE PROGRAM: rent. The person or entity that is responsible for the operation,
                oversight, and management of a Dockless Shared Mobility Device Program.
SHARED-USE      A minimum eight (8) foot wide concrete, asphalt or hardened surface
PATH/TRAIL:     corridor that accommodated two-way traffic and is used for both public
                recreational purposes and active transportation.
SIDEWALK:       A paved or surfaced area, paralleling a street, that is primarily used
                as a public pedestrian right-of-way.
TRAIL:          A natural surface trail varying in width that is primarily used for
                recreational purposes. (Prior code § 5-1-1; amd. Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
 
10.68.020: DUTIES OF PARENTS AND GUARDIANS:
It is unlawful for the parents or guardian of any child to authorize or
knowingly permit any child to ride, operate, possess or use a bicycle or
micromobility device in violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Prior
code § 5-1-2; amd. Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.030: OPERATION:
The provisions of this chapter applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or sidewalk in the city, subject to those
exceptions stated in this chapter. (Prior code § 5-1-3)
10.68.040: BICYCLE REGISTRATION:
It is recommended, but not mandatory, that all residents register their bicycle
with the Logan City Police Department. Registration is free of charge and
available to only bicycles and e-bikes. The chief of police, or their designee,
will issue a decal sticker bearing the license number assigned to the bicycle
with instructions to the owner as to where the decal is placed on the bicycle.
The decal shall be firmly attached to the frame of the bicycle. Valid proof of
bicycle ownership is required at the time of registration. The Police
Department will maintain a database of registered bicycles that may assist in
the recovery of stolen bicycles. (Prior code § 5-1-7; amd. Ord. 22-10, 5-3-
2022)
10.68.050: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING MICROMOBILITY:
   A.   Every person regardless of age, who operates a bicycle or micromobility
device upon a roadway, public parking lot, bike lane or other public vehicular
right-of-way in the City shall be granted the same rights and shall be subject
to the same responsibilities applicable to a motor vehicle operator by the laws
of the state of Utah and Logan City Ordinances except where provisions of those
laws and ordinances by their very nature can have no application to
micromobility devices, or where portions of this Chapter direct otherwise.
Micromobility devices operated on sidewalks or trails have the same
responsibilities as a pedestrian.
   B.   Any peace officer as defined in Utah Code, operating a micromobility
device in the course and scope of their official duties is exempt from the
requirements of Section 10.68.030 above if the micromobility device is being
operated under any of the following circumstances:
      1.   In response to an emergency call;
      2.   While engaged in rescue operations; or
      3.   In the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law.
   C.   This Section does not relieve a peace officer from the duty to operate
a micromobility device with due regard for the safety of all persons. (Prior
code § 5-2-1; amd. Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.060: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
Any persons operating a bicycle or micromobility device shall obey the
instructions of official traffic signals, signs and other control devices in
accordance to current Federal, State and local laws applicable to vehicles,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer. (Prior code § 5-2-2; amd. Ord.
22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.070: SPEED:
No person shall operate a bicycle or micromobility device at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing, or on the
street at a speed greater than the automobile speed limits as posted, or on a
trail at a speed greater than the posted micromobility device speed limit nor
in a negligent manner or speed on sidewalks as to impose danger to pedestrian
traffic. (Prior code § 5-2-4; amd. Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.080: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
The operator of a bicycle or micromobility device emerging from an alley,
driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area
extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to all pedestrians
approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway
shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. (Prior
code § 5-2-5; amd. Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.090: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle or micromobility device shall attach the same
or themselves to any vehicle upon a roadway. (Prior code § 5-2-6; amd. Ord. 22-
10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.100: RIDING IN A GROUP:
Persons operating bicycles or micromobility devices upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two (2) abreast except upon bike paths of twelve feet (12') or
more. The rider of a micromobility device operating two (2) abreast upon a
roadway shall return to a single file configuration when a vehicle approaches
from behind in the same lane. (Prior code § 5-2-7; amd. Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.110: SAFE OPERATIONS:
   A.   All micromobility devices must be in safe operating condition with
working brakes that allow a device to stop when engaged.
   B.   Every micromobility device when in use at nighttime, between one hour
after sunset and one hour before sunrise, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front, or the rider shall have attached a lamp which shall emit a white light
which shall be visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to
the front, and with a red reflector on the rear which shall be visible from all
distances from fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear when
directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A red
lamp to the rear may be used in addition to the real reflector.
   C.   No micromobility device shall be used to carry more persons at one time
than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
   D.   No person shall operate a micromobility device that is either too large
or too small for such person to operate safely.
   E.   Every person operating a micromobility device shall maintain control of
said device and keep at least one (1) hand on the handlebar at all times and
shall carry nothing that prevents full control of the device or obstructs the
rider's vision.
   F.   A trailer or another similar item may be attached to any device if it
is designed to accommodate such an item.
   G.   The rider of a micromobility device shall always yield the right-of-way
to pedestrians. (Prior code § 5-2-8; amd. Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.120: RIDING ON ROADWAYS:
   A.   No person shall ride a micromobility device on a roadway against the
flow of motorized vehicular traffic, except where permitted by official signs
or pavement markings.
   B.   Every person riding a micromobility device upon a two-way roadway is
entitled to use the lane appropriate for the intended destination, including
the right-most lane and any designated bus lane. The micromobility device rider
shall proceed in the same direction of travel as other vehicles authorized to
use that lane. On one-way roadways a micromobility device may be operated in
any existing lane. Every person riding a micromobility device may use the full
lane if the lane is not wide enough for a car and micromobility device to
safely share.
   C.   The rider of a micromobility device traveling at a rate of speed that
delays a vehicle or vehicles following in the same lane shall be required, when
it is unlawful or unsafe for the following vehicle to pass, to move as far to
the right of the traveled roadway as practicable, or to the left where the
micromobility device is in the left lane of a one-way roadway, as is safe under
the conditions then existing. When the rider is within fifty feet (50') of an
intersection, they shall not be required to move to the right or left until
they have moved through the intersection. (Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.130: BIKE LANES AND SHARED USE TRAILS:
   A.   Wherever a Bike Lane is present upon a roadway, the rider of a
micromobility device shall use that lane and shall not use the roadway, except
when the lane is of insufficient width, condition of the pavement, debris,
opening of car doors, or other similar conditions pose a threat to the safety
of the rider.
   B.   Wherever a shared use trail has been provided immediately adjacent to a
roadway, the rider of a micromobility device should use that trail.
   C.   Micromobility devices are permitted to operate on shared use pathways
unless specifically prohibited with official City signage and under the
direction of the Parks and Recreation Director. Micromobilty devices shall
follow all shared use pathway rules and operation standards and at or below
speed maximums of bicycles. Speed limit signs may be posted on certain sections
of trail to ensure safe operations.
   D.   A rider of a micromobility device on any public or private property
open to the public shall obey all posted maximum speed limits and sign
regulations. Maximum speed limits may vary depending on location and pedestrian
traffic levels. It is the responsibility of the rider of a micromobility device
to know and obey all applicable regulations, including maximum speed limits, in
the area of operation. Notwithstanding any posted maximum speed limit, no
person shall use, operate, or ride a micromobility device at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions or circumstances then
existing and having regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing.
   E.   When a sidewalk is not present and a pedestrian is located inside the
bike lane, the rider of a micromobility device shall yield to the pedestrian.
   F.   Micromobility riders when approaching pedestrians from behind are
required to reduce speed and give audible warning prior to cautiously
overtaking and passing such pedestrians. (Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.140: MICROMOBILITY PARKING:
No person shall park a micromobility device upon any street outside of
designated parking areas or in such a manner as to obstruct vehicular travel.
No person shall park a micromobility device upon a sidewalk in such a manner as
to cause obstruction to pedestrian and wheelchair traffic. Parking on the grass
at any Logan City Park is prohibited. No person shall park on landscaping areas
in a manner that causes damage to trees and shrubs or on private property
without permission. Where bicycle racks and corrals are available, they shall
be used for orderly bicycle and micromobility device parking. Bicycle racks and
corrals shall be installed along roadways or upon sidewalks as directed by the
city engineer. (Prior code § 5-2-9; amd. Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.150: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   A micromobility device may be operated upon a sidewalk and within a
crosswalk, except in areas where prohibited by official traffic control
devices, sidewalk markings or city approved signage designating dismount zones
in high-volume pedestrian areas. Because of the risk of colliding with
pedestrian(s) in these high-volume pedestrian areas, the rider of a
micromobility device must dismount and walk the device. Dismount zones will
typically be located in downtown areas.
   B.   Any rider of a micromobility device riding upon a sidewalk, or across a
roadway upon and within a crosswalk, shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian.
   C.   Any rider of a micromobility device riding upon a sidewalk, or across a
roadway upon and within a crosswalk, shall have all the rights and duties
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances.
   D.   Any rider of a micromobility device riding on the sidewalk shall not
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and move into the path of a
vehicle that is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   E.   Logan City reserves the right install signs on any sidewalk prohibiting
riding of micromobility devices. (Ord. 02-43 § 1, 2002: prior code § 5-2-10;
amd. Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.160: PASSING OTHER VEHICLES:
The rider of a micromobility device may pass another vehicle on the right when
traveling on a two-way roadway and may pass on the left when traveling in the
left lane of a one-way roadway, but only under conditions permitting such
movement safely. The rider of a micromobility device shall not pass between two
(2) lanes of motor vehicles proceeding in the same direction. (Ord. 22-10, 5-3-
2022)
10.68.170: DISMOUNT NOT REQUIRED WHEN STOPPING:
Whenever a micromobility device rider is required to bring the micromobility
device to a stop in conformance with the official traffic control devices, the
rider shall halt forward motion but shall not be required to dismount or remove
their feet from the pedals or the floorboard. (Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.180: TURN SIGNALS:
The rider of a micromobility device intending to turn shall signal their intent
to turn with the appropriate hand and arm signal at least one hundred feet
(100') or three seconds prior to turning. The hand signal need not be
continuous. (Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.190: RECKLESS OR INATTENTIVE OPERATION:
A rider of a micromobility device on any public or private property open to
public, who rides inattentively, carelessly recklessly, or without due caution
and circumspection, or at such speed or in any other manner as to endanger or
be likely to endanger any person or property, shall be guilty of an infraction.
(Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.200: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction. (1989 Code: prior code § 5-2-13; amd. Ord. 22-10, 5-3-
2022)
10.68.210: TAMPERING RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall knowingly modify a micromobility device so as to change its
speed capability. (Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.220: SEVERABILITY:
If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or any part of this Chapter is
declared or adjudged to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect,
invalidate, or nullify the remainder of this Chapter. (Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
10.68.230: SHARED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE PROGRAM:
Shared micromobility device programs offering for-rent devices may be permitted
to operate within Logan City limits in accordance to the regulations of this
chapter and other City applicable codes and ordinances and only after a user
operational agreement is established and signed by both the City and the shared
micromobility company. (Ord. 22-10, 5-3-2022)
TITLE 11
RESERVED
 
TITLE 12
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
CHAPTER 12.04
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS GENERALLY
SECTION:
Article I. Unlawful Acts
12.04.010: Bonfires
12.04.020: Barbed Wire Fences
12.04.030: Coasting On Streets; Exception
12.04.040: Place "No Parking" Signs
12.04.050: Posting Bills Without Permission
12.04.060: Posted Notices Or Advertisements
12.04.070: Ringing Bells
12.04.080: Signs Over Streets
12.04.090: Removing Signs Or Gates
12.04.100: Driving On Sidewalk
12.04.110: Streamers
12.04.120: Throwing Bills
12.04.130: Injuring Trees Or Monuments
12.04.140: Violation; Penalty
Article II. Street Construction And Maintenance
12.04.150: Dropping Stones In Streets Prohibited
12.04.160: Permit Required
12.04.170: Excavation Safeguards
12.04.180: Cellar Doors; Maintenance Required
12.04.190: Piling Or Mixing Mortar On Pavements; Restrictions
12.04.200: Injury To Streets Prohibited
12.04.210: Certain Vehicles Not Allowed; Exception
12.04.220: Vehicle Weight Limits
12.04.230: Damage To Bridge Or Culvert; Report
12.04.240: Ditches Across Streets Unlawful
12.04.250: Culverts Or Access Bridges; Maintenance Required
12.04.260: Alleyways To Be Kept Clean
12.04.270: Obstruction Or Damage To Street
12.04.280: Erecting Building Or Pole; Declared Nuisance When
12.04.290: Driving Animals Or Vehicles Prohibited Where
12.04.300: Obstructing Passage Unlawful
ARTICLE I. UNLAWFUL ACTS
12.04.010: BONFIRES:
It is unlawful for any person to build, maintain or assist in building or
maintaining any fires upon any of the streets or sidewalks in the city. (Prior
code § 12-9-1)
12.04.020: BARBED WIRE FENCES:
It is unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected or to maintain
any barbed wire fence along or adjacent to any street or as a division fence
between adjoining lots or parcels of land, either or which is occupied as place
of residence; any such fence so erected or maintained is declared a nuisance.
(Prior code § 12-9-2)
12.04.030: COASTING ON STREETS; EXCEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person to coast or slide with any sled, sleigh or
toboggan or vehicle on any public street in the city, or draw or cause to be
drawn by any motor vehicle any sled, sleigh or toboggan upon any public street,
avenue, sidewalk or alley within the city; provided, however, that the mayor,
by public notice or proclamation may authorize the use of certain streets,
avenues or alleys for coasting during the winter season, and during such
period, the street will be closed to traffic, and when so closed it is unlawful
for any person to enter such street with any horsedrawn or motor vehicle. (1989
Code: prior code § 12-9-3)
12.04.040: PLACING "NO PARKING" SIGNS:
It is unlawful for any person without the permission of the mayor to place or
cause to be placed on any street or sidewalk, or on any building, any sign
preventing or forbidding the parking of vehicles in the street in front of any
building or place of business. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-9-5)
12.04.050: POSTING BILLS WITHOUT PERMISSION:
It is unlawful for any person, acting for herself or himself or through an
agent or for such agent, to print, paint, write, mark or in any way post up any
notice, card or advertisement, or other device upon any wall, fence, tree,
post, pole, building or other property without the permission of the owner or
person in charge thereof. (Prior code § 12-9-6)
12.04.060: POSTED NOTICES OR ADVERTISEMENTS:
It is unlawful for any person, without authority, to tear down or deface any
bill, notice, advertisement, any election or registration notice, or any other
paper of business of legitimate character lawfully posted up within the limits
of the city. (Prior code § 12-9-7)
12.04.070: RINGING BELLS:
It is unlawful for any person, while distributing or posting bills, to ring any
doorbell, push any button, knock at any door or give any other alarm. (Prior
code § 12-9-8)
12.04.080: SIGNS OVER STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any signs made of paper,
muslin, cloth or other light inflammable material over any sidewalk, or on the
outside of any building or structure within the fire limits of the city. (Prior
code § 12-9-9)
12.04.090: REMOVING SIGNS OR GATES:
It is unlawful for any person to remove mischievously any gates or signs within
the limits of the city. (Prior code § 12-9-10)
12.04.100: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
It is unlawful for any person to drive a team, or to lead, ride or drive any
horse or motor vehicle upon and along any sidewalk or in any park unless on a
driveway designated for motor vehicles. (Prior code § 12-9-12)
12.04.110: STREAMERS:
It is unlawful for any person to construct, erect or maintain any streamers,
banners or signs, or suspend the same over any public street, alley or sidewalk
in the city without first obtaining a permit so to do from the mayor;
application for which shall specify the width and length of the streamers,
banners or signs, the same will be suspended from the pavements and the length
of time the same is desired to remain. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-9-13)
12.04.120: THROWING BILLS:
It is unlawful for any person distributing bills to throw any bill, paper of
other article into any street, sidewalk, alley or public grounds, or on any
private yard, lot or premises. (Prior code § 12-9-14)
12.04.130: INJURING TREES OR MONUMENTS:
It is unlawful for any person wilfully and maliciously to take down, injure or
remove any monument erected or any tree marked as a boundary of any street,
land or city lot, or to remove, destroy or deface, or alter the marks of any
monument or destroy or injure any shade, ornamental or fruit tree within the
limits of the city. (Prior code § 12-9-15)
12.04.140: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this article shall be
guilty of an infraction. (1989 Code: prior code § 12-1-3)
ARTICLE II. STREET CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
12.04.150: DROPPING STONES IN STREETS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to throw, cast or put into, drop and leave in any
street or public place within the city limits of this city, any stones, gravel,
dirt, manure or garbage or allow the same either intentionally or carelessly to
drop off or be thrown from any truck or other vehicle driving through the
streets of this city, and allow the same to remain without immediately removing
it. (Prior code § 15-2-1)
12.04.160: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for a person to construct, reconstruct, repair or extend
or relocate any sidewalk or curb and gutter or bridge across a gutter, within
the incorporated limits of the city without first having applied for and
obtained a permit from the city engineer. If the work authorized by the permit
is not commenced within ninety (90) days from the date thereof, or if the work
authorized by such permit shall be suspended or abandoned for a period of
ninety (90) days from the date thereof, or if the work authorized by such
permit shall be suspended or abandoned for a period of ninety (90) days, then
such permit shall become null and void. All work hereafter done shall conform
to lines, grades and stakes furnished by the city engineer before acceptance is
given to such work.
   B.   Permits for the construction, reconstruction repair, extension or
relocation of any sidewalk or curb and gutter or bridge across a gutter, within
the incorporated limits of the city, shall be issued upon approval of the city
engineer and upon payment of fees as follows: permit fee; five dollars ($5.00).
(Prior code § 15-2-2)
12.04.170: EXCAVATION SAFEGUARDS:
It is unlawful for any person, by or for whom any excavation is made in a
public street or sidewalk for any purpose, to fail to cause a barricade, rail
or other sufficient fence to be placed so as to enclose such excavation,
together with the dirt, gravel or other material thrown therefrom, and to
maintain such barricade during the whole time for which such excavation
continues; and it is unlawful for any person to fail to have lighted lanterns
or some other proper and sufficient lights fixed to parts of such barricade, or
in some other proper manner over or near the excavation, and over and near the
dirt, gravel or other material taken therefrom, and so kept from the beginning
of twilight through the whole of every night during all the time such
excavation exists. It is unlawful for any person maliciously or wantonly and
without legal cause, to extinguish, remove or diminish the lights or to tear
down or remove any rail, fence or barricade fixed in accordance with the
provisions of this section. (Prior code § 15-2-3)
12.04.180: CELLAR DOORS; MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for the owners or occupant of any building having a cellar or
other opening upon any street or sidewalk to fail to keep the door or other
covering thereof in good repair and safe for the passage of the customary
traffic on the street or sidewalk; and if the owner or occupant of any such
building shall neglect or refuse to repair any such door or covering for twenty
four (24) hours after notice from the manager of the division of streets so to
do, the manager shall forthwith cause such repairs to be made, or the same to
be removed at the expense of the owner or occupant. (Prior code § 15-2-4)
12.04.190: PILING OR MIXING MORTAR ON PAVEMENTS; RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful to place or pile or to cause or permit to be placed or piled any
sand, gravel, lime, cement mortar, plaster, concrete or any other substance or
mixture, or to allow the same to remain on any portion of any paved street or
sidewalk in the city; or to make or mix, or to cause or permit to be made or
mixed, any mortar, plaster, concrete or any other like substance or mixture on
any portion of any paved street or sidewalk in the city; provided, that in
cases where work is being done on buildings or pavements, the mayor may grant
the person or contractor doing such work permission to mix cement, concrete or
other building materials, in tight boxes or on tightly joined boards, on such
pavements or walk under such restrictions as the mayor may deem proper. (Prior
code § 15-2-5)
12.04.200: INJURY TO STREETS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit any damages to be done to any
street, sidewalk, ditch, curb, gutter, bridge or culvert or cause or permit any
street, sidewalk or property of any other person to be flooded with water by
reason of improperly constructing or maintaining a bridge or culvert. (Prior
code § 15-2-6)
12.04.210: CERTAIN VEHICLES NOT ALLOWED; EXCEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or propel across any bridge or culvert
or upon the streets of the city any traction engine or other machinery or
vehicle of great weight having cogged wheels or other device attached to the
tires having tendency to cut into the roadway without first laying plank upon
such bridge or culvert where the wheels will traverse the same, or otherwise
adequately protecting such bridge or culvert. (1989 Code: prior code § 15-2-8)
12.04.220: VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS:
It is unlawful for any person to drive any traction engine, heavy truck load,
other machinery, or heavy vehicles upon or across any bridge or culvert or upon
the streets of the city, loaded or otherwise weighing, including such load, to
exceed an H-20 loading or as posted on the bridge or culvert by order of the
mayor, without first ascertaining the carrying capacity of such bridge or
culvert, and taking such action as may be necessary to adequately protect such
bridge or culvert so as to carry such unusual weight. (1989 Code: prior code §
15-2-9)
12.04.230: DAMAGE TO BRIDGE OR CULVERT; REPORT:
It is the duty of any person driving or causing to be driven any traction
engine, loaded truck or other heavy load or machine over any bridge or culvert
in the streets of the city and thereby causing an injury to such bridge or
culvert to immediately report the same to the manager of the division of
streets and then repair the same without delay under such manager's direction
or immediately settle for all damages done as may be determined and assessed by
the manager of the division of streets. Any failure to comply with this section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor. (Prior code § 15-2-10)
12.04.240: DITCHES ACROSS STREETS UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to run water or dig ditches across the public
streets within this city for the purpose of conveying water for irrigation or
other purposes unless the same person provides a flume, pipe or culvert for the
same under the supervision and direction of, and with the approval of the
manager of the division of streets. (Prior code § 15-2-11)
12.04.250: CULVERTS OR ACCESS BRIDGES; MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
Any culvert or any access bridges over gutters not kept in good repair are
deemed to be a nuisance; upon failure or refusal of the person so maintaining
or creating the same to abate and remove such nuisance, the city street
division manager or such manager's agent may do so and such persons shall be
liable in damages for all costs and expenses which the city may incur,
including reasonable attorney fees, in abating such nuisance in addition to the
penalty hereinafter set forth. (Prior code § 15-2-12)
12.04.260: ALLEYWAYS TO BE KEPT CLEAN:
It is unlawful for any owner, occupant or tenant of any premises in the city,
abutting on an alleyway, to fail to keep the abutting part of the alley or the
premises free from swill, ashes, rubbish or any other refuse or matter
deleterious to health. (Prior code § 15-2-13)
12.04.270: OBSTRUCTION OR DAMAGE TO STREET:
Any person who wilfully or carelessly obstructs of injures any public street or
alley by causing or permitting the flow of seepage water thereon; or who
wilfully or carelessly permits water under such person's control to escape in
any manner so as to injure any public street or alley or form any stagnant pool
thereon, or any person who shall wilfully or carelessly place and leave or
cause to be placed or left any lot, timber, stone, snow, ice or other material
or any machinery or vehicle upon any public street of the city, in such a way
as to obstruct the travel or impair the use of such street, or to endanger
persons passing or property upon such street, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1989 Code: prior code § 15-2-14)
12.04.280: ERECTING BUILDING OR POLE; DECLARED NUISANCE WHEN:
Any person who shall, without a written permit or franchise so to do, occupy
any public street, alley or other public place in the city or construct or
maintain upon such street, alley or public place any building, railroad,
telephone, telegraph or electric light pole, line or other structure, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and all such buildings, poles, wires, rails,
ties or other equipment or material used or maintained in such occupation are
hereby declared to be nuisances; and upon failure or refusal of the person so
maintaining or creating the same to abate and remove such nuisances, the city
may do so and such persons shall be liable in damages in addition to the
penalty hereinafter set forth, also be liable for all costs or expenses that
the city may incur in abating such nuisances. (Prior code § 15-2-15)
12.04.290: DRIVING ANIMALS OR VEHICLES PROHIBITED WHERE:
It is unlawful for any person to drive loose cattle, horses, sheep, goats,
swine or vehicles upon the parking portion of any street or sidewalk in the
city. (Prior code § 15-2-16)
12.04.300: OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to remain standing, lying or sitting on the
street or highway in such a manner as to obstruct the free passage of vehicular
or pedestrian traffic thereon, or wilfully to remain standing, lying or sitting
thereon in such manner for more than one minute after being required by any
police officer to clear a free passage for vehicular or pedestrian traffic or
wilfully to remain on such street or highways or any property having access to
such street or highways. (Prior code § 15-2-17)
CHAPTER 12.06
RIGHT OF WAY CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
12.06.010: Definitions
12.06.020: Permit Required; Basis For Issuance
12.06.030: Permit Application Requirements
12.06.040: Emergency Work
12.06.050: Permit Fees
12.06.060: Permit; Contents; Duration And Extension
12.06.070: Permit; No Transfer Or Assignment
12.06.080: Compliance With Specifications, Standards, Traffic Control
Regulations; Site Permittee Identification
12.06.090: Other Highway Permits
12.06.100: Relocation Of Structures In Public Ways
12.06.110: Impact Of Excavation On Existing Improvements
12.06.120: Restoration Of Public Property
12.06.130: Insurance Requirements
12.06.140: Bond; When Required, Conditions, Warranty
12.06.150: Hold Harmless Agreement; Limitations On City Liability
12.06.160: Work Without Permit; Penalty
12.06.170: Failure To Comply; Default In Performance
12.06.180: Failure To Conform To Design Standards; Penalty
12.06.190: Appeal Of Suspension, Revocation, Or Stop Order
12.06.200: Tampering With Traffic Barricades
12.06.210: Conflict With Governing Provisions
12.06.220: Violation; Penalty
12.06.010: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for a permit.
BUSINESS: Any place in Logan City in which there is conducted or carried on
principally or exclusively any pursuit or occupation for the purpose of gaining
a livelihood.
CITY: Logan City, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer, or his/her authorized representative.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes an immediate occurrence, the existence of which constitutes an
immediate danger to persons or property or which causes interruption of utility
or public services.
ENGINEERING REGULATIONS, REGULATIONS, SPECIFICATIONS AND/OR DESIGN STANDARDS:
The latest version of the "City Of Logan Department Of Public Works Standards
And Specifications" as published and adopted by the city engineer.
FAILURE: A work site restoration which fails to meet city engineer
specifications, or which results in a deteriorated or substandard condition
within the duration of the warranty period. Failure may be settlement of
surfaces, deterioration of materials, or other surface irregularities.
Measurements of failure further defined in the engineering regulations are
incorporated as part of this definition.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the right of way.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more affiliates owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
PERMITTEE: Any person who has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed to
fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
PERSON: Means and includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association,
provider, corporation, company, organization, or entity of any kind.
PIPE DRIVEWAY: A driveway approach which uses a pipe or other means to bridge
the gutter.
PRIVATE DRAIN LINE: A pipe installed solely for the transmission of water
collected or generated on private property such as drainage, spring or storm
water, or condensate into the public drainage system.
PROPERTY OWNER: A person or persons who have legal title to property and/or
equitable interest in the property, or the ranking official or agent of a
company having legal title to property and/or equitable interest in the
property.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, system lessee, or
public utility company.
PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY: Any company subject to the jurisdiction of the Utah
state public service commission, or any mutual corporation providing gas,
electricity, water, telephone, or other utility product or services for use by
the general public.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all public rights of way and easements, public
footpaths, walkways and sidewalks, public streets, public roads, public
highways, public alleys, utility easements, and public drainageways. It does
not, however, include private utility easements.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides service over a system for which a
separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying
system used for the transmission and does not install any system in the rights
of way.
RESIDENT: The person or persons currently making their home at a particular
dwelling.
STORM DRAIN: A dedicated pipe, conduit, waterway or ditch installed in a right
of way or easement for the transmission of storm and drainage water. This term
does not include private drain lines.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider located in the construction,
ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
WORK SITE RESTORATION: Means and includes the restoring of the original ground
or paved hard surface area to comply with engineering regulations, and
includes, but is not limited to, repair, cleanup, backfilling, compaction and
stabilization, paving and other work necessary to place the site in acceptable
condition following the conclusion of the work, or the expiration or revocation
of the permit. (Ord. 14-33, 2014)
12.06.020: PERMIT REQUIRED; BASIS FOR ISSUANCE:
Any person desiring to perform work of any kind in a public way within the
city, shall make application for a permit. The decision by the city to issue a
permit shall include, among other factors determined by the city, the
following:
   A.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate the facilities or
structures proposed to be installed in the public way;
   B.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate multiple wire in addition
to cables, conduits, pipes or other facilities or structures of other users of
the public way, such as electrical power, telephone, gas, sewer and water;
   C.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, or landscaping previously existing in the public way;
   D.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction from numerous excavations of the public way. (Ord. 97-74 § 1,
1997)
12.06.030: PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application for a permit shall be filed with the city engineer on a
form or forms to be furnished by the city. Property owners and/or tenants for
whom work is being done shall be responsible for obtaining the permits,
provided, however, contractors may obtain the permit in the contractor's name.
   B.   No person shall be eligible to apply for or receive permits to do work
within the public ways of the city, save and except they are one of the
following:
      1.   Contractors licensed by the state as general contractors;
      2.   Providers;
      3.   Property owners installing, replacing or maintaining less than five
hundred (500) square feet or one hundred (100) linear feet of sidewalk, curb
and gutter, or driveway approach, or other work approved by the city engineer,
upon a portion of the public way adjacent to their residence; or
      4.   Persons offering a service which requires occupation of the public
way, such as scaffold or staging, staging of a crane, installation or
maintenance of electric signs, glass, awnings, and painting or cleaning of
buildings or sign boards or other structures.
   C.   The city engineer may deny the issuance of permits to contractors,
utility companies, or other permit applicants who have shown by past
performance that in the opinion of the city engineer they will not consistently
conform to the engineering regulations, specifications, design standards, or
the requirements of this chapter.
   D.   When necessary, in the judgment of the city engineer, to fully
determine the relationship of the work proposed to existing or proposed
facilities within the public ways, or to determine whether the work proposed
complies with the engineering regulations, construction specifications and
design standards, the city engineer may require the filing of engineering
plans, specifications and sketches showing the proposed work in sufficient
detail to permit determination of such relationship or compliance, or both, and
the application shall be deemed suspended until such plans and sketches are
filed and approved.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person to commence work upon any public way
until the city engineer has approved the application and until a permit has
been issued for such work, except as specifically allowed to the contrary in
this chapter.
   F.   The disapproval or denial of an application by the city engineer may be
appealed by the applicant to the mayor by filing of a written notice of appeal
within ten (10) days of the action of the city engineer. The mayor shall hear
such appeal, if written request therefor be timely filed as soon as
practicable, and render his/her decision within two (2) weeks following notice
of such appeal.
   G.   In approving or disapproving permits for work within any public way, or
in the inspection of such work; in reviewing plans, sketches or specifications;
and generally in the exercise of the authority conferred upon him/her by this
chapter, the city engineer shall act in such manner as to preserve and protect
the public way and the use thereof, but shall have no authority to govern the
actions or inaction of permittees and applicants or other persons which have no
relationship to the use, preservation or protection of the public way.
   H.   It is unlawful for a county, state, federal or other government
employee to perform routine maintenance work, not involving excavations,
without first having obtained a permit therefor.
   I.   A permit is not required from the city engineer for hand digging
excavations for installation or repair of sprinkler systems and landscaping
within the nonpaved areas of the public way. However, conformance to all city
specifications is required.
   J.   Any person performing work in the right of way in behalf of a city
entity must notify the city engineer twenty four (24) hours in advance of
commencing the work. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.040: EMERGENCY WORK:
   A.   Any person maintaining pipes, lines or facilities in the public way may
proceed with work upon existing facilities without a permit when emergency
circumstances demand the work to be done immediately; provided, a permit could
not reasonably and practicably have been obtained beforehand.
   B.   In the event that emergency work is commenced on or within any public
way of the city during regular business hours, the city engineer shall be
notified within one-half (1/2) hour from the time the work is commenced. The
person commencing and conducting such work shall take all necessary safety
precautions for the protection of the public and the direction and control of
traffic, and shall insure that work is accomplished according to city
engineering regulations, the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" and
other applicable laws, regulations, or generally recognized practices in the
industry.
   C.   Any person commencing emergency work in the public way during hours
other than regular business hours without a permit shall immediately thereafter
apply for a permit or give notice during the first hour of the first regular
business day on which city offices are open for business after work is
commenced. A permit for such emergency work may be issued which shall be
retroactive to the date when the work was begun, at the discretion of the city
engineer. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.050: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   The city shall charge and the permittee shall pay upon issuance of the
permit as outlined in the fee schedule located in the office of the public
works director. Such costs could include costs for reviewing the project and
issuing the permit, inspections of the project, deterioration of the public way
or diminution of the useful life of the public way, and other costs to the city
associated with the work to be done under the permit. All costs shall be
assessed in a nondiscriminatory manner.
   B.   The city engineer may waive permit fees or penalties or portion thereof
provided for in this chapter, when the city engineer determines that such
permit fee or penalty:
      1.   Pertains to construction or rehabilitation of housing for persons
whose income is below the median income level for the city; or
      2.   Pertains to an encroachment on the public way involving a
beautification project which furthers specific goals and objectives set forth
in the city's strategic plan, master plans, or other official documents,
including decorative street lighting, building facade lighting, flower and
planter boxes, and landscaping.
   C.   Additional charges to cover the reasonable cost and expenses of any
required engineering review, inspection, and work site restoration associated
with each undertaking may be charged by the city to each permittee in addition
to the permit fee. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.060: PERMIT; CONTENTS; DURATION AND EXTENSION:
   A.   Each permit application shall state the starting date and estimated
completion date. Work shall be completed within five (5) days from the starting
date or as determined by the city engineer. Such determination shall be based
upon factors reasonably related to the work to be performed under the permit.
Such factors may include, in addition to other factors related to the work to
be performed, the following:
      1.   The scope of work to be performed under the permit;
      2.   Maintaining the safe and effective flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on the public way affected by the work;
      3.   Protecting the existing improvements to the public way impacted by
the work;
      4.   The season of the year during which the work is to be performed as
well as the current weather and its impact on public safety and the use of the
public way by the public;
      5.   Use of the public way for extraordinary events anticipated by the
city.
The city engineer shall be notified by the permittee of commencement of the
work within twenty four (24) hours prior to commencing work. The permit shall
be valid for the time period specified in the permit.
   B.   If the work is not completed during such period, prior to the
expiration of the permit, the permittee may apply to the city engineer for an
additional permit or an extension, which may be granted by the city engineer
for good cause shown.
   C.   The length of the extension requested by the permittee shall be subject
to the approval of the city engineer. No extension shall be made that allows
work to be completed in the winter period. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.070: PERMIT; NO TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT:
Permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not be
performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the permit.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting the work
to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of the
permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work under
the permit, and for all the bonding, insurance and other requirements of this
chapter and under said permit. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.080: COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS, STANDARDS, TRAFFIC CONTROL
REGULATIONS; SITE PERMITTEE IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   The work performed in the public way shall conform to the requirements
of the engineering regulations, design standards, construction specifications.
All traffic sign and traffic control devices shall be in conformance with the
"Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", copies of which shall be available
from the city engineer, kept on file in the office of the city recorder and
open to public inspection during office hours.
   B.   Where a job site is left unattended before completion of the work, the
site shall be signed according to the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices", and the Logan City standards and specifications.
   C.   All excavations shall be conducted in a manner resulting in a minimum
amount of interference or interruption of street or pedestrian traffic.
Inconvenience to residents and businesses fronting on the public way shall be
minimized. Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades and/or other structures
will be available and used where necessary to prevent accidents involving
property or persons. Barricades must be in place until all of the permittee's
equipment is removed from the site and the excavation has been backfilled and
proper temporary gravel surface is in place, except where backfilling and
resurfacing is to be done by the city; in which case the barricades, together
with any necessary lights, flares or torches, must remain in place until the
backfill work is actually commenced by the city. From sunset to sunrise, all
barricades and excavations must be clearly outlined by adequate signal lights,
torches, etc. The police department, fire department, Logan transit district
and Logan City schools shall be notified at least twenty four (24) hours in
advance of any planned excavation requiring street closure or traffic detour.
(Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.090: OTHER HIGHWAY PERMITS:
   A.   Holders of permits for work on highways owned or under the jurisdiction
of other government entities, but located within the city limits, shall not be
required to obtain permits from the city under the provisions of this chapter,
unless the work extends beyond the back side of the curb, or beyond any other
designated jurisdictional boundary. Any city permit shall not be construed to
permit or allow work on a county road or a state highway within the city
without an applicable county or state permit.
   B.   The city engineer, in his or her discretion, shall have the right and
authority to regulate work under permits issued by other governmental entities
with respect to hours and days of work, and measures required to be taken by
the permittee of said governmental entity for the protection of traffic and
safety of persons and property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to impose any duty, implied or express, on the city
or its employees, officers, agents, or assigns, relative to the protection of
traffic and safety of persons or property, arising out of the issuance of any
permit issued by government entities other than the city, or arising out of any
work performed on any public way owned or within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 97-79 § 1, 1997)
12.06.100: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   The city engineer may direct any person owning or maintaining
facilities or structures in the public way to alter, modify or relocate such
facilities or structures as the city engineer may require as set forth herein.
Sewers, pipes, drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe driveways, vaults, trash
receptacles and overhead and underground gas, electric, telephone,
telecommunication and communication facilities shall specifically be subject to
such directives. The person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
shall, at their own cost and expense and upon reasonable written notice by the
city, promptly protect, or promptly alter or relocate such facilities or
structures, or part thereof, as directed by the city. In the event that such
person refuses or neglects to conform to the directive of the city, the city
shall have the fight to break through, remove, alter or relocate such part of
the facilities or structures without liability to such person. Such person
shall pay to the city all costs incurred by the city in connection with such
work performed by the city, including also design, engineering, construction,
materials, insurance, court costs and attorney fees.
   B.   Any directive by the city engineer shall be based upon one or more of
the following:
      1.   The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being
maintained contrary to law, or determined by the city engineer to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      2.   The facility or structure constitutes a nuisance as defined under
state statute;
      3.   The permit under which the facility or structure was installed has
expired or has been revoked;
      4.   The public way is about to be repaired or improved and such
facilities or structures may pose a hindrance to construction; or
      5.   The grades or lines of the public way are to be altered or changed.
   C.   Any directive of the city engineer under this section shall be
consistent with the city's police power. Unless an emergency condition exists,
the city engineer shall make a good faith effort to consult with the person
regarding any condition that may result in a removal or relocation of
facilities in the public way. The city engineer shall take such measures in
order to avoid or minimize cost associated with removal or relocation.
   D.   The obligation referenced in subsection C of this section does not
apply to facilities or structures originally located on private property
pursuant to a private easement, which property was later incorporated into the
public way, if that prior private easement grants a superior vested right.
   E.   Any person owning or maintaining facilities or structures in the public
way who fails to alter, modify or relocate such facilities or structures upon
notice to do so by the city engineer shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
All costs of alteration, modification or relocation shall be borne by the
person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures involved.
   F.   The city may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster or other
emergency, as determined by the city in its reasonable discretion, cut or move
any parts of the system and appurtenances on, over or under the public way, in
which event the city shall not be liable therefor to a person. The city shall
notify a person in writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon
as possible and in no case later than the next business day following any
action taken under this subsection. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.110: IMPACT OF EXCAVATION ON EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   If any sidewalk or curb ramp is blocked by excavation work, a temporary
sidewalk or curb ramp shall be constructed or provided. Said temporary
improvement shall be safe for travel and convenient for users, and consistent
with city standards for such.
   B.   Where excavations are made in paved areas, the surface shall be
replaced with a temporary gravel surface until such time as the permanent
repairs are completed.
   C.   1. At any time a permittee disturbs the yard, residence or the real or
personal property of a private property owner or the city, such permittee shall
ensure that such property is returned, replaced and/or restored to a condition
that is comparable to the condition that existed prior to the commencement of
the work.
      2.   The costs associated with the disturbance and the return,
replacement and/or restoration shall be borne by the permittee. Further, a
permittee shall reimburse a property owner or the city, for any actual damage
caused by the permittee, its subcontractor, or its independent contractor, in
connection with the disturbance of such property. However, nothing in this
subsection shall require the permittee to pay a subscriber or private property
owner when that subscriber or private property owner requests that the
permittee remove, replace or relocate improvements associated with the service
provided by the permittee to the property owner and when the permittee
exercises due care in the performance of that service, or when the subscriber
or private property owner provided false information to the permittee on which
the permittee relied to its detriment.
   D.   Examples of types of acts specifically included in this section are the
following:
      1.   Removal of sod, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, trees, driveways or fence,
to install, trench, repair, replace, remove or locate equipment, cable or other
appurtenances of the permittee;
      2.   Installation or removal of equipment or other appurtenances of the
permittee's system within a private property owner's property or residence
which requires drilling, excavating, plastering, or the like on the part of the
permittee;
      3.   Temporarily relocating or moving a piece of personal property or a
fixture of a private property owner (such as a motor vehicle, fence, air
conditioning, heating unit, or the like) in order to perform some sort of
construction, maintenance or repair by the permittee; or
      4.   Permanently removing a permittee's equipment or other appurtenances
due to the revocation, termination or nonrenewal of the franchise (if
applicable).
   E.   Existing drainage channels, such as gutters or ditches, shall be kept
free of dirt or other debris so that natural flow will not be interrupted. When
it is necessary to block or otherwise interrupt flow of the drainage channel, a
method of rerouting the flow must be submitted for approval by the city
engineer prior to the blockage of the channel.
   F.   The requirements imposed upon the permittee extend to any subcontractor
or independent contractor that the permittee might employ to perform the tasks
pursuant to the permit.
   G.   The requirements of this section shall not apply to the removal by a
permittee of a permanent structure placed by a property owner in a public way,
unless such property owner has received prior written permission from the city
granting the property owner the right to install a permanent structure on a
public way, and such written permission has been recorded in the office of the
county recorder. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.120: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
The permittee shall, at its own expense, restore the surface of any public way
to its original condition and replace any removed or damaged pavement and
gravel base material. All restoration shall conform to the engineering
regulations, design standards and specifications promulgated by the city and
shall be accomplished within the time limits set forth in the permit, unless
additional time is granted in writing by the department. (Ord. 14-33, 2014)
12.06.130: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall furnish to the city
written evidence that the applicant has a commercial general liability and
property damage policy that includes contractual liability coverage endorsed
with the following limits and provisions or with such alternative limits and
provisions as may be approved by the city:
      1.   A minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single
limit per occurrence for general liability including bodily injury, personal
injury, and property damage and not less than two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) aggregate. The general aggregate limit shall apply separately
to the permit, or the general aggregate limit shall be two (2) times the
required occurrence limit. The coverage shall be in the nature of broad form
commercial general liability. The city attorney or risk manager may increase or
decrease minimum insurance limits, depending on the potential liability of any
project.
      2.   All policies shall name the city, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers, and assigns, as additional insureds. Any
reference to the city shall include the city, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers and assigns.
      3.   The coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the city, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers and assigns. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance
and shall not contribute to or be added with it.
      4.   Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall
not affect coverage provided to the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns.
      5.   The permittee shall agree to indemnify, save harmless and defend the
city and its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or
expense sustained on account of damages to persons or property occurring by
reason of permit work done by the permittee, the permittee's subcontractor or
agent, whether or not the work has been completed and whether or not the right
of way has been opened to public travel.
      6.   Insurance must be placed with insurers with an A.M. Best rating of
"A-:IX" or higher.
   B.   The permittee shall furnish the city with certificates of insurance and
original endorsements affecting coverage required by the permit. The
certificates and endorsements for each insurance policy are to be signed by a
person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its behalf. The city
expressly reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all
required insurance policies at any time. Consequently, the permittee shall be
prepared to provide such copies prior to the issuance of the permit.
   C.   The permittee shall include all subcontractors as insured under its
policies or shall furnish separate certificates and endorsements for each
subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be subject to all of the
requirements stated herein.
   D.   Any deductibles or self-insured retentions shall be declared to and
approved by the city. At the option of the city, either the insurer shall
reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as respects the
city, its employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers or assigns, or the
permittee shall procure a bond, in a form acceptable to the city, guaranteeing
payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense
expenses.
   E.   A provider may be relieved of the obligation of submitting certificates
of insurance under the following circumstances:
      1.   If such company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that:
         a.   It is insured in the amounts set forth in this chapter, or has
complied with state requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may
submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of individual
submissions for each permit, and
         b.   Said coverage provides to the city the same scope of coverage
that would otherwise be provided by a separate policy as required by this
chapter; or
      2.   The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant is
to be performed by the city, in which case insurance or other risk transfer
issues shall be negotiated between the city and the applicant by separate
agreement. (Ord. 14-33, 2014)
12.06.140: BOND; WHEN REQUIRED, CONDITIONS, WARRANTY:
   A.   Except as noted in this chapter, each applicant, before being issued a
permit, shall provide the city with an acceptable security (this may include a
corporate surety bond, cash bond, or letter of credit, as determined by the
city) in an amount sufficient to guarantee faithful performance of the work
authorized by a permit granted pursuant to this chapter. The amount of the
security required may be increased or decreased at the discretion of the city
engineer whenever it appears that the amount and cost of the work to be
performed, and not satisfactorily completed, may vary from the amount of
security otherwise required under this chapter. The form of the security and
the entity issuing the security shall be subject to the approval of the city
attorney.
   B.   Public utilities franchised by the city shall not be required to file
any security if such requirement is expressly waived in the franchise
documents.
   C.   The security required by this section shall be conditioned as follows:
      1.   The permittee shall fully comply with the requirements of the city
ordinances and regulations, specifications and standards promulgated by the
city relative to work in the public way, and respond to the city in damages for
failure to conform therewith;
      2.   After work is commenced, the permittee shall proceed with diligence
and expedition and shall promptly complete such work and restore the public way
to construction specifications, so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary;
      3.   The permittee shall guarantee the materials and workmanship for a
period of one year from completion of such work, with reasonable wear and tear
excepted; and
      4.   That unless authorized by the city engineer on the permit, all
paving, resurfacing or replacement of street facilities on major or collector
streets shall be done in conformance with the regulations contained herein
within three (3) calendar days, and within seven (7) calendar days from the
time the excavation commences on all other streets, except as provided for
during excavation in winter or during weather conditions which do not allow
paving according to engineering regulations. In winter, a temporary patch must
be provided. In all excavations, restoration of pavement surfaces shall be made
immediately after backfilling is completed or concrete is cured. If work is
expected to exceed the above duration, the permittee shall submit a detailed
construction schedule for approval. The schedule will address means and methods
to minimize traffic disruption and complete the construction as soon as
reasonably possible. (Ord. 14-33, 2014)
12.06.150: HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT; LIMITATIONS ON CITY LIABILITY:
   A.   The permittee agrees to save the city, its officers, employees and
agents harmless from any and all costs, damages and liabilities which may
accrue or be claimed to accrue by reason of any work performed under the
permit. The issuance and acceptance of any permit under this chapter shall
constitute such an agreement by the permittee to this section.
   B.   This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon the city, its
officers, employees and agents any liability or responsibility for damages to
any person injured by or by reason of the performance of any work within the
public way, or under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter; nor shall the
city, its officers, officials, employees, agents, volunteers or assigns thereof
be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility by reason of
inspection authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit, or the approval of
any work. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.160: WORK WITHOUT PERMIT; PENALTY:
   A.   A stop order may be issued by the city engineer directed to any person
or persons doing or causing any work to be done in the public way without a
permit. The abutting property owner shall be responsible for causing work to be
done.
   B.   Any person found to be doing work in the public way without having
obtained a permit, as provided in this chapter, shall be required to pay a
permit fee equal to two (2) times the normal permit fee. For replacement work,
where a fee is not normally charged, the normal permit fee for new construction
shall apply. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.170: FAILURE TO COMPLY; DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE:
   A.   Any permit may be revoked or suspended and a stop order issued by the
city engineer, after notice to the permittee for:
      1.   Violation of any condition of the permit, the security, or of any
provision of this chapter;
      2.   Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the city or law
relating to the work; or
      3.   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act which does
constitute, may constitute, or cause a condition endangering life or property.
   B.   A suspension or revocation by the city engineer, and a stop order,
shall take effect immediately upon entry thereof by the city engineer and
notice to the person performing the work in the public way. Notice to the
person performing the work shall be accomplished when the city engineer has
posted a stop work order at the location of the work and written notice has
been mailed, return receipt requested, to the address indicated by the
permittee on the permit.
   C.   Whenever the city engineer finds that a default has occurred in the
performance of any term or condition of the permit, written notice thereof may
be given to the principal and to the surety on the bond, if there is a surety
bond. Such notice shall state the work to be done, the estimated cost thereof,
and the period of time deemed by the city engineer to be reasonably necessary
for the completion of the work.
   D.   In the event that the surety (or principal), within a reasonable time
following the giving of such notice (taking into consideration the exigencies
of the situation, the nature of the work, the requirements of public safety and
for the protection of persons and property), fails either to commence and cause
the required work to be performed with due diligence, or to indemnify the city
for the cost of doing the work, as set forth in the notice, the city may
perform the work, at the discretion of the city engineer, with city forces or
contract forces or both, and suit may be commenced by the city attorney against
the contractor and bonding company and such other persons as may be liable, to
recover the entire amount due to the city, including attorney fees, on account
thereof. In the event that cash has been deposited, the cost of performing the
work may be charged against the amount deposited, and suit brought for the
balance due, if any. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.180: FAILURE TO CONFORM TO DESIGN STANDARDS; PENALTY:
For failure to conform to the design standards and regulations, the city
engineer may:
   A.   Suspend or revoke the permit;
   B.   Issue a stop order;
   C.   Order removal and replacement of faulty work;
   D.   Require an extended warranty period; and/or
   E.   Negotiate a cash settlement to be applied toward future maintenance
costs. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.190: APPEAL OF SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, OR STOP ORDER:
Any suspension, revocation or stop order by the city engineer may be appealed
by the permittee by filing a written notice of appeal within ten (10) days of
the action of the city engineer. The mayor shall hear such appeal, if written
request therefor be timely filed, as soon as practicable, and render his/her
decision within a reasonable time following filing of notice of appeal. (Ord.
97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.200: TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly or without
authorization and legal cause, extinguish, remove or diminish any light
illuminating any barricade or excavation, or to tear down, remove or in any
manner alter any rail, fence or barricade protecting any excavation or other
construction site. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.210: CONFLICT WITH GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance, agreement, franchise, or other document
governing the excavation of a public way, the more restrictive provisions of
the aforesaid documents shall apply. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
12.06.220: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any provision of
this chapter, or failure to comply with an order of suspension, revocation or
stop work, shall be a class B misdemeanor. Each day the violation exists shall
be a separate offense. No criminal conviction shall excuse the person from
otherwise complying with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 97-74 § 1, 1997)
CHAPTER 12.08
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
12.08.010: Owner To Keep Sidewalks Clean And In Repair
12.08.020: Grating
12.08.030: Gates
12.08.040: Obstruction Unlawful
12.08.050: Games
12.08.060: Sidewalks To Be Kept Clean In Front Of Business Houses
12.08.070: Weeds To Be Removed
12.08.080: Duty To Remove Snow And Ice
12.08.010: OWNER TO KEEP SIDEWALKS CLEAN AND IN REPAIR:
All owners and occupants of city lots are required to keep in repair and in
condition for travel the sidewalk and bus stop adjacent to their respective
lots, and to remove all weeds, brush, snow, hail, sleet, ice and other
obstructions from the same. (Ord. 04-16 § 1, 2004: prior code § 15-5-3)
12.08.020: GRATING:
No grating shall be placed in the sidewalk without the consent of the manager
of the street division. If such consent is given, the spaces between the bars
of the grating shall be less than one inch (1") apart, and no grating shall
project more than three feet (3') into the sidewalk. (1989 Code: prior code §
15-5-7)
12.08.030: GATES:
It is unlawful for any person or owner of property in the city to so hang or
arrange any gate or door so that the same would swing across the sidewalks of
any street or alley in the city, obstructing traffic thereon in any degree.
(Prior code § 15-5-8)
12.08.040: OBSTRUCTION UNLAWFUL:
No person shall place or allow to be placed any object or other obstruction
upon the sidewalk or within the public right of way without first obtaining a
written permit from the city unless otherwise allowed by ordinance or statute.
"Public right of way" means real property or an interest in real property
acquired for or dedicated to public use and may include, but not be limited to,
streets, sidewalks, landscaping strips, curb and gutter, and driveway
entrances. (Ord. 03-30 § 2, 2003: prior code § 15-5-9)
12.08.050: GAMES:
It is unlawful for any person or persons to obstruct any sidewalk or street by
games of any kind, playing of ball, quoits, marbles, throwing of stones,
rolling of hoops, flying of kites, or to annoy or obstruct the free travel of
any foot passenger. (Prior code § 15-5-10)
12.08.060: SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT CLEAN IN FRONT OF BUSINESS HOUSES:
It is unlawful for the owners or occupants of businesses within the city to
fail to sweep the sidewalk abutting thereon each morning before the hour of
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (Prior code § 15-5-11)
12.08.070: WEEDS TO BE REMOVED:
It is unlawful for any person owning, occupying or controlling any real
property within the corporate limits of the city to allow weeds to grow or
remain on the sidewalk or ditch banks in front of such person's premises.
(Prior code § 15-5-12)
12.08.080: DUTY TO REMOVE SNOW AND ICE:
It is unlawful for the owner, occupant, lessor or agent of either the owner,
occupant or lessor of any property abutting on any paved sidewalk where said
property is open to the public for business to fail to remove or cause to be
removed from such paved sidewalk and bus stop all hail, snow or sleet falling
thereon, and all ice forming thereon, within one hour after such hail, snow or
sleet shall have ceased falling or such ice shall have formed; provided, that
in case of a storm, between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. in the
afternoon and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. in the succeeding morning, or in case of
ice forming during the same hours, such sidewalk shall be cleaned before nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. in the morning immediately succeeding the storm or the
formation of such ice. (Ord. 04-16 § 2, 2004: prior code § 15-5-13)
CHAPTER 12.12
STREET TREES
SECTION:
12.12.010: Purpose
12.12.020: Definitions
12.12.030: City Forestry Advisory Board
12.12.040: Board; Responsibilities
12.12.050: City Forester
12.12.060: City Forestry Advisory Board; Regulations Promulgation
12.12.070: City Forester; Authority
12.12.080: City Forester; Enforcement Duty
12.12.090: Permits Required
12.12.100: Permits; Plantings
12.12.105: Park Strip
12.12.110: Permits; Trimming Of Trees
12.12.120: Abutting Property; Owner Responsibility
12.12.130: Requirements Of Businesses
12.12.140: Abuse Or Mutilation
12.12.150: Protection Near Construction Activities
12.12.160: City Property; Placing Materials Thereon
12.12.170: Valuation Of Trees; Compensation To City
12.12.180: City Departments; Operations Coordinated With The City Forester
12.12.190: Interference With City Forester
12.12.200: Appeal Of Decisions
12.12.210: Violation; Penalty
12.12.010: PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the policy of the city that city property and private property be
landscaped to enhance the natural beauty of the city, that the responsibilities
of the city departments be coordinated to encourage quality landscaping, that
landscaped city property be effectively managed, that the street environment be
made hospitable through landscaping, and that residents of the city be
encouraged to participate in beautification efforts through installing and
maintaining quality landscaping on public and private property.
   B.   It is also the purpose of this chapter to protect and promote the
public health, safety and general welfare of the people of the city by
regulation of the planning, planting, maintenance and removal of trees when
necessary in order to protect and enhance the environment and abate hazardous
conditions within the city. (Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-1)
12.12.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth in this section:
CITY: The city of Logan, Utah.
CITY FORESTER: The person appointed by the mayor within the electrical
department to administer this chapter. The city forester shall additionally
supervise the tree trimming crew of the electrical department which shall in
general provide staff to accomplish the intent of this chapter.
CITY FORESTRY ADVISORY BOARD: The board appointed by the mayor as set forth in
this chapter with the approval and consent of the municipal council.
CITY PROPERTY: All parks and planting strips and public property owned by the
city.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A portion of property reserved for public use and accepted
as such by the municipal council to provide circulation and travel to abutting
properties, including, but not limited to, streets, alleys, sidewalks,
provisions for public utilities, cut and fill slopes and open public space.
PUBLIC TREE OR SHRUB: A tree or shrub which is situated in such a manner so
that any part of the tree trunk or shrub base at ground level is on public
property or public right of way. (Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-2)
12.12.030: CITY FORESTRY ADVISORY BOARD:
There is created the city forestry advisory board, referred to in this chapter
as the "board". The board shall consist of five (5) voting members to be
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the municipal council in
the following manner:
   A.   The members of the board shall be residents of the city. The mayor
shall designate one to serve a term of one year, two (2) to serve for a term of
two (2) years, and two (2) to serve for a term of three (3) years. Thereafter
as terms expire or occur by resignation, all appointments shall be for terms of
three (3) years. Voting members shall serve for no more than two (2)
consecutive terms on the board.
   B.   The directors of public works, parks and recreation light and power,
and the planning director shall serve as advisory members of the board. The
mayor may also appoint other advisory pro tem members as needed for specific
problems.
   C.   The city forester shall serve as staff for the board. Clerical staff as
needed shall be provided by the city administration.
   D.   Members of the board shall receive no compensation for their services.
   E.   Vacancies occurring in the membership of the board shall be filled by
the mayor with the advice and consent of the municipal council for the
unexpired term.
   F.   The board shall hold regular meetings at least quarterly. Special
meetings may be called by the chairperson or by a majority of the voting
members of the board at any time or by the mayor at any time on five (5) days'
notice to all members and the city forester.
   G.   Three (3) voting members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
   H.   The board shall adopt a system of rules and procedure under which its
meetings are to be held subject to approval of the municipal council. Each year
at its first regular meeting after January 1, the board shall select one of its
members as chairperson.
   I.   All actions taken by the board shall constitute recommendations to the
mayor. Such recommendations shall be included in and supported by minutes of
the board and shall be submitted to the mayor promptly after each meeting.
(Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-3)
12.12.040: BOARD; RESPONSIBILITIES:
The board shall have the following responsibilities:
   A.   Recommend to the mayor such rules and regulations for the conduct of
the board as the members shall deem advisable; provided, however, that such
rules and regulations shall not be in conflict with this chapter or other city,
state or federal law and shall be subject to alteration and approval by the
mayor and municipal council;
   B.   Assist the city forester in developing a comprehensive plan for the
city's urban forest and recommend the adoption of all rules, regulations and
ordinances which it shall from time to time deem in the public interest and
most likely to enhance and beautify the urban forest, and for the purposes of
carrying out this chapter;
   C.   Promulgate arboricultural regulations, not inconsistent with this
chapter. Within one year of the effective date of this chapter recommend
adopting of regulations concerning the planting, maintenance and removal of
trees on city property. The board may also recommend regulations setting forth
the requirements for licensing arborists;
   D.   Recommend to the mayor matters of policy regarding the planting,
maintenance and removal of trees and other vegetation on city property and city
approved developments;
   E.   Recommend to the mayor policies for the review and approval of capital
projects where trees or other vegetation will be planted or removed on city
property;
   F.   Recommend to the mayor policies for the review and approval of projects
on private property where open space and/or landscaping is required as a
condition for the development, and recommend policies for the enforcement of
approved plans;
   G.   Assist the city forester in encouraging landscaping installation and
maintenance on private property by providing information on the value of
landscaping and on the proper planting and care of trees and other vegetation,
by conducting educational campaigns to inform residents of the requirements of
city ordinances relating to landscaping, and by promoting private involvement
in beautification projects;
   H.   Identify landscaping projects that will enhance the urban forest and
advocate incorporation of the projects into the capital planning process;
   I.   Recommend policies and procedures to identify, mark, publicize and
preserve historic and notable trees on both public and private property;
   J.   Assist the city forester in promoting appreciation of trees and the
urban forest through annual Arbor Day observances and other activities;
   K.   Encourage and solicit donations from the public for tree planting and
maintenance. Review those portions of the city budget allocated for the
planning and care of trees and other vegetation, and make recommendations to
the mayor and municipal council;
   L.   Encourage improvement of the urban forest through planning and policy
development;
   M.   Assist and provide guidance to city departments in every way possible
to enhance the urban forest in the city;
   N.   Hear appeals of the decisions of the city forester and offer
recommendations to the mayor for resolution of such matters. (Ord. 88-7 § 1,
1988: prior code § 15-4-4)
12.12.050: CITY FORESTER:
There is established the office of city forester, who shall be appointed by the
mayor with approval of the municipal council from the electrical department.
The city forester shall be responsible for administering the provisions of this
chapter and for carrying out such policies and recommendations of the city
forestry advisory board as are authorized by or approved by the administration.
The city forester shall have supervision of all trees and plants planted or
growing on public property or in public rights of way within the city to ensure
public safety and to preserve the beauty of such public places. It shall be the
city forester's duty to have trees or other plants on public property or in
public rights of way planted and properly cared for including, but not limited
to, trimming, spraying or removal. (Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-5)
12.12.060: CITY FORESTRY ADVISORY BOARD; REGULATIONS PROMULGATION:
Within one year of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, the board shall prepare arboricultural regulations concerning the
planning, planting, maintenance and removal of trees on city property and
submit the same for approval of the municipal council. Such regulations shall
also contain a list of approved species of trees which may be planted on public
streets within the city. The existing list as set forth in sections 15-4-12 and
15-4-13 of the preceding tree ordinance is repealed by the ordinance codified
in this chapter but is preserved as the initial approved list until such list
is altered or modified by regulation passed by the city. (Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988:
prior code § 15-4-6)
12.12.070: CITY FORESTER; AUTHORITY:
   A.   Public Property: The city forester shall have the authority and
jurisdiction to regulate the planning, planting, maintenance and removal of
trees and/or shrubs on streets and other city property to ensure public safety;
alleviate interference with providing of essential services; and preserve the
aesthetics of such public sites. When it is proposed that street tree removal
is necessary then written notice to abutting tenants and/or property owners
shall be given six (6) working days before the work is initiated. The
requirement for written notice is not necessary in the case of emergency.
   B.   Private Property: The city forester shall have the authority to direct
city personnel under the city forester's supervision to prune and/or remove
trees on private property which interfere with power transmission lines, street
and sidewalk clearance or visibility; which are causing damage to curb, gutter,
sidewalk or other city property; or which in the city forester's opinion
constitute a hazard to the general public. Consultation with, and six (6)
working days' written notice to the tenant and property owner shall be given
prior to any pruning or removal of trees located on private property, except in
the case of emergency. Verbal notice to the property owner may be given by
phone if the property owner does not reside on the affected property.
   C.   Affected Or Infested Trees On Private Or Abutting Public Property:
Whenever the city forester determines that trees or shrubs located upon private
property or upon abutting public property are infected or infested with any
tree or plant disease or insect pest, the uncontrolled presence of which may
constitute a hazard to or result in the damage or destruction of other trees or
shrubs in the community, the city forester may forthwith issue a notice
requiring the owner or adjacent owner to treat or remove any such designated
tree or shrub within a time specified in such notice. The notice may be served
by delivering a copy thereof to the owner or occupant of the property and by
mailing a copy of the notice to the owner if the owner is not a resident at the
subject property. If there is no compliance with the requirements of the notice
within the time specified therein, then the city forester shall proceed to have
the designated tree or shrub treated or removed and the cost of such treatment
or removal shall be paid by the owner of the property. If the charges are not
paid within thirty (30) days, then the city attorney may commence a proceeding
to collect the charges in any court of competent jurisdiction, or in the
alternative, the director of finance may at the time of certifying other city
taxes to the county clerk, certify the unpaid costs and the county clerk shall
extend the same on the tax roll of the county against such lot or parcel of
ground.
   D.   Development Plantings: The city forester shall have the authority and
it is his duty to inspect and approve tree planting, landscaping and planting
plans on public property. (Ord. 97-46 § 2, 1997: Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988: prior
code § 15-4-7)
12.12.080: CITY FORESTER; ENFORCEMENT DUTY:
Upon a determination that a violation of the provisions of this chapter exists,
the city forester, or the city forester's authorized representative, shall
ascertain the name of the owner of property abutting the planting strip in
which the violation has occurred or exists, and shall serve notice in writing
upon the owner or occupant of such property, either personally or by mailing
notice, certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner or occupant at
the last known post office address as disclosed by the records of the county
assessor, requiring such owner or occupant as the case may be, to correct or
remedy the violation within such time as the city forester, or the city
foresters authorized representative, may designate which shall be no less than
ten (10) days from the date of service of such notice. (Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988:
prior code § 15-4-8)
12.12.090: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to plant, remove, cut down above or below ground, any tree on
the city tree planting strips or other city property, or cause such acts to be
done by others, without first applying for and obtaining a permit from the city
forester. Application for permits must be made at the city offices not less
than forty eight (48) hours in advance of the time the work is to be done.
Permits shall expire thirty (30) days after issuance unless otherwise
designated. Notice of completion for permitted work shall be given the city
forester within five (5) days of completion. Permits shall not be required for
city personnel while working on city business or property under their
jurisdiction, or forestry personnel or contractors working on a city contract
while working under the direction of the city forester. Permitted work shall be
done in compliance with the officially adopted arboricultural regulations of
the city. (Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-9)
12.12.100: PERMITS; PLANTINGS:
   A.   An application for permit to plant one or more trees or shrubs on
planting strips or other city property shall state the number of plants to be
planted; the planting location and its proximity to overhead lines, street
intersections, etc.; the species, cultivar or variety of each plant; the plans
for care and maintenance of new planting; and such other information as the
city forester shall find necessary to a fair determination of whether or not a
permit should be issued.
   B.   Whenever any tree or shrub is planted in conflict with the provisions
of this chapter, it is lawful for the city forester to remove or cause removal
of the same.
   C.   In issuing permits for the planting of trees or shrubs on city planting
strips, the city forester shall follow the guidelines as set forth in
resolution 93-28 as to the variety of trees that may be planted on planting
strips of various widths as set forth in that resolution. (Ord. 93-33 § 11,
1993: Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-10)
12.12.105: PARK STRIP:
Adequate rights of way and park strips (area within public rights of way
between sidewalk and curb and gutter) shall be provided to encourage
traditional street tree plantings, to ensure pedestrian safety, to alleviate
interference with essential public services, and to maintain appropriate grade
and driveway approaches. The planting of the planting strip shall comply with
the provisions of this title. and with current regulations with the Logan City
Land Development Code. (Ord. 94-40 § 1, 1994; amd. Ord. 22-07, 4-5-2022)
12.12.110: PERMITS; TRIMMING OF TREES:
An application for a permit to trim one or more trees growing in the park
strips or other city property shall state the number of plants involved, the
species or common name of each plant; the trunk diameter of trees involved (at
41/2 feet above ground), the location of the work to be done, the reason(s) for
the work to be done, and any such other information as may be pertinent to the
application required by the city forester to make a fair and equitable
determination of whether or not a permit should be issued. Permits for major
pruning or trimming of trees on city property shall be issued only to licensed
arborists or abutting property owners. No permit shall be required if the work
is to be done by city personnel. (Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-11;
amd. Ord. 22-07, 4-5-2022)
12.12.120: ABUTTING PROPERTY; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
The owner of property abutting park strips along public rights of way shall be
responsible for the maintenance and control of any lawn or shrubbery growing in
the park strip to the extent of preventing infringement of vegetation on
gutters, streets and sidewalks, and maintaining the property in an acceptable
condition as required by other chapters in this code. (Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988:
prior code § 15-4-12; amd. Ord. 22-07, 4-5-2022)
12.12.130: REQUIREMENTS OF BUSINESSES:
Any person engaged in the business or occupation of trimming, pruning, topping,
treating or removing trees or shrubs shall be duly licensed and shall abide by
the officially adopted arboricultural regulations that apply to work which
involves trees or shrubs located in public property in the city. (Ord. 88-7 §
1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-13)
12.12.140: ABUSE OR MUTILATION:
It is unlawful for any person to cut, carve, break, transplant, remove,
mutilate or otherwise damage or kill any tree on city property without
necessary permit(s) and without abiding by the arboricultural regulations of
the city; to attach any rope, wire, nails, advertising posters or other
contrivance to any tree on city property; to allow any gaseous, liquid or solid
substance which is harmful to trees to come in contact with any tree on city
property; or to set fire to or permit any fire to burn when such fire or the
heat thereof will injure any portion of any tree on city property. (Ord. 88-7 §
1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-14)
12.12.150: PROTECTION NEAR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
Any tree on city property in the immediate vicinity of any excavation,
demolition or construction site of any building, structure or street work,
which in the city forester's discretion has any potential for injury or damage
shall be guarded with a substantial fence, frame or box. Such a protective
structure shall be not less than four feet (4') high and eight feet (8')
square, or at a distance in feet from the tree equal to two (2) times the
diameter of the tree trunk in inches measured four and one-half feet (41/2')
above ground, whichever is the greater distance from the tree. All building
materials, vehicles, extra dirt or other debris shall be kept outside the
barrier. (Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-15)
12.12.160: CITY PROPERTY; PLACING MATERIALS THEREON:
No person shall deposit, place, store or maintain upon any city property any
stone, brick, sand, concrete or other materials which may prevent the passage
of water, air and/or nutrients to the roots of any tree growing therein, other
than decorative rock gardens or other planned landscaping materials. (Ord. 88-
7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-16)
12.12.170: VALUATION OF TREES; COMPENSATION TO CITY:
Anyone who causes damage or destruction to a tree on city property, without a
proper permit, shall compensate the city for such damages. The damages shall be
determined by the city forester using the methodology of the International
Society of Arboricultural/Council of Landscape Appraisers. If malicious intent
can be shown, then treble damages shall be assessed. The city attorney may take
whatever action is necessary in a court of competent jurisdiction to collect
such damages as are not voluntarily paid after assessment. Any funds collected
for tree damage shall be earmarked for the use of the city forester. (Ord. 88-
7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-17)
12.12.180: CITY DEPARTMENTS; OPERATIONS COORDINATED WITH THE CITY FORESTER:
There shall be close coordination and cooperation between all city departments
and the city forester when trees on streets, in parks and/or on city property
are affected and also when trees on private property are affected by city
utility operations. Plans for lighting, sewer, irrigation, water, street and
other public works projects having impact on the urban forest shall be reviewed
by the city forester in reference to their effects upon trees on private or
public property prior to the beginning of work on such projects. The various
city department heads shall confer with the city forester within weekly public
works staff meetings to coordinate programs and to minimize damage to trees on
all projects. (Ord. 88-7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-18)
12.12.190: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY FORESTER:
It is unlawful for any person to hinder, prevent, delay or interfere with the
city forester or any personnel under the city forester's direction while
engaged in carrying out the execution or enforcement of this chapter; provided,
that nothing in this chapter shall be construed as an attempt to prohibit the
pursuit of any remedy, legal or equitable, in any court for the protection of
property rights by the owner of any property within the city. (Ord. 88-7 § 1,
1988: prior code § 15-4-19)
12.12.200: APPEAL OF DECISIONS:
Decisions made by the city forester with regard to tree maintenance or removal,
permit issuance or any other matter affecting a tree on private property or on
city property affecting an abutting owner may be appealed in writing within
five (5) working days of the notice or decision in question. The appeal will be
to the city forestry advisory board and may be made by delivering an appeal in
writing to the mayor's office. The city forester shall be notified of the
appeal hearing at least forty eight (48) hours in advance of the hearing time
set. No action on the problem shall be taken by the city forester pending the
outcome of the appeal. The city forestry advisory board shall hear all parties
wishing to be heard on the matter during the appeal and shall make a decision
within ten (10) days of the receipt of their appeal. The board's recommendation
shall be forwarded to the mayor who shall, within five (5) days, notify in
writing all persons concerned of the mayor's approval or disapproval of the
action of the board. The mayor's decision shall be final subject only to such
injunctive relief as may be ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord.
88-7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-20)
12.12.210: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Violation of any provisions of this chapter is a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 88-
7 § 1, 1988: prior code § 15-4-21)
CHAPTER 12.16
STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS
SECTION:
12.16.010: Street Names
12.16.020: Numbering Generally
12.16.030: Numbering System
12.16.040: City Engineer Duties
12.16.010: STREET NAMES:
The streets platted in the several surveys of the city shall be known by the
names listed on the zoning map of the city and as such shall be listed on any
approved subdivision plat accepted by the mayor. It is unlawful for any person
to change the name of a street except by action of the mayor as authorized by
law. (1989 Code: prior code § 15-3-1)
12.16.020: NUMBERING GENERALLY:
All houses in the city situated on any of the streets shall be numbered. The
initial point of numbering shall be at the intersection of Main Street and
Center Street, and the numbering thence east, west, north and south; the even
numbers shall be on the south and the odd numbers on the north side of all
streets running east and west; the even numbers shall be on the east side and
odd numbers shall be on the west side of all streets running north and south.
(Prior code § 15-3-2)
12.16.030: NUMBERING SYSTEM:
One hundred (100) numbers shall be allowed to each block, fifty (50) to each
side thereof. The numbering at the intersection of Main Street and Center
Street shall begin at one; the number at the first streets north, south, east
and west of the intersection of Main Street and Center Street shall begin at
one hundred one (101), and so on in regular order to eastern, western, northern
and southern limits of the city respectively. (Prior code § 15-3-2)
12.16.040: CITY ENGINEER DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the city engineer to furnish each owner of any house
situated upon any street of the aforesaid with the correct number to which the
house is entitled, and each owner or occupant is required to place or cause to
be placed a suitable permanent and durable number upon the house. (Ord. 97-70 §
1, 1997: prior code § 15-3-3)
CHAPTER 12.20
VIOLATION
SECTION:
12.20.010: Violation; Misdemeanor
12.20.010: VIOLATION; MISDEMEANOR:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. (1989 Code: prior code § 15-6-1)
CHAPTER 12.24
CITY PROPERTY
SECTION:
12.24.010: Trespass
12.24.020: Regulatory Signs
12.24.030: City Police Alarm System
12.24.040: Logan City Skatepark, Tobacco And Smoke Free Zone
12.24.010: TRESPASS:
It is unlawful for any person to enter or be upon or to drive any vehicle upon
or to be within any vehicle upon any city park or city cemetery between ten
o’clock (10:00) p.m. and five o’clock (5:00) a.m. of any day, except when
participating in or attending an activity sponsored by the city or allowed
under a permit issued by the city, and except for pedestrians crossing a park
on a regularly established walkway. (Prior code § 13-3-1; amd. Ord. 20-16, 7-
21-2020)
12.24.020: REGULATORY SIGNS:
Where signs have been posted under the direction of the mayor on any city owned
or city leased property regulating walking, use of vehicles, parking,
instructions as to animals or containing other regulatory information, it is
unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of such regulatory signs.
(Prior code § 13-3-2)
12.24.030: CITY POLICE ALARM SYSTEM:
   A.   The owner of any private alarm system shall keep her or his alarm
system in good working order and train responsible employees regarding the
proper use of the alarm system so as to prevent false alarms from occurring.
   B.   All private alarm system owners who have a false alarm will receive a
written warning posted on the property where the false alarm originated. On the
fourth false alarm event and for each false alarm thereafter within a twelve
(12) month period, the owner shall pay a civil fee in the sum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   C.   The owner shall pay any sums due under subsection B of this section
within thirty (30) days after the mailing of an itemized bill for costs. If the
owner of any private alarm system fails to pay any sums due within the time set
forth in this subsection, the police department may refer the claim for
collection with reasonable fees, interest at the rate established for utility
accounts, and costs for collection added. An owner charged with a fee under
this section may request an administrative hearing pursuant to section
17.60.190 of this code. (Ord. 13-14, 2013)
12.24.040: LOGAN CITY SKATEPARK, TOBACCO AND SMOKE FREE ZONE:
   A.   In any skatepark facility owned or operated by the city of Logan, the
use of bicycles of any type, scooters, similar devices, and motorized vehicles
are prohibited.
   B.   Any person riding a skateboard, or using roller skates, or in- line
skates in a skatepark facility owned or operated by the city of Logan shall,
without city supervision, skate at their own risk. The use of safety equipment
including helmets, kneepads, elbow pads, and wrist guards is strongly
recommended.
   C.   Any person riding a skateboard, roller skates, or in-line skates in the
facility shall exercise extreme caution, respecting the use of the facility by
other skaters, and complying with all other city ordinances pertaining to
public peace, morals, and welfare.
   D.   A tobacco and smoke free zone is established at the Logan Skate Park
and Logan Aquatic Center including parking lots, sidewalks, and amenities, and
Fairview Park situated within the boundaries beginning at the property line of
the Union Pacific Railroad track and 400 South to the northeast corner of 400
South and 500 West, to the southeast corner of 500 West and 500 South, to the
southwest corner of 500 South and the property line of the Union Pacific
Railroad track to the northwest corner of the property line of the Union
Pacific Railroad track and 400 South.
   E.   It is unlawful for glass containers, alcohol, tobacco products, or
drugs to be in the tobacco and smoke free zone including, but not limited to,
parking lots, sidewalks, grass areas, spectator areas, or property owned or
operated by the city of Logan.
   F.   It is unlawful for any obstacles, including ramps, rails, or similar
equipment or material not constructed as part of the skatepark to be on the
premises including, but not limited to, parking lots, sidewalks, grass areas,
spectator areas, or property owned or operated by the city of Logan.
   G.   It is unlawful for any user or spectator to not report any damage or
hazardous condition to the city of Logan.
   H.   It is unlawful for any person to organize events at the skatepark
facility without prior written approval from the director of parks and
recreation or his designee. The city of Logan reserves the right to organize,
promote, sponsor, and rent the facility for special events and may preempt
other scheduled events at its own discretion if necessary.
   I.   It is unlawful for any person to skate in the skatepark before dawn and
after dusk on any day. The facility shall be open to the public dawn to dusk
unless otherwise posted. The operating schedule of the facility may be
curtailed at the discretion of the city of Logan for inclement weather, special
events, unforeseeable circumstances, or for repairs to the skatepark.
   J.   Any person who fails or refuses to comply with the provisions of this
section and who is injured while using the skatepark facility shall be deemed
negligent.
   K.   Any person failing to comply with the above stated rules and
regulations is guilty of an infraction and subject to citation. (Ord. 05-19 §
2, 2005: Ord. 01-63 § 1, 2001)
CHAPTER 12.28
RIVERS, CANALS AND WATERCOURSES
SECTION:
12.28.010: Maintenance; Owner Responsibility; Enforcement
12.28.020: Obstruction Causing Flooding; Responsibility
12.28.025: Flood Management Along Natural Rivers, Streams, Or Creeks
12.28.030: Manager Of Division Of Streets; Duties
12.28.040: Filing Name Of Watermaster Required
12.28.050: Watercourse Maintenance Required
12.28.060: Obstruction On Water Ditches Prohibited
12.28.070: Violation; Penalty
12.28.010: MAINTENANCE; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY; ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of any person, firm or corporation, either public or
private, owning or operating any property adjacent to or containing a river,
creek, ditch or watercourse, either natural or manmade, within the city of
Logan to clean out and maintain the same in proper repair; to so construct and
maintain the bottom and sides of the watercourse as to prevent unreasonable
seepage, leakage, flooding, or overflow of the watercourse, and to construct
and maintain proper dams, headgates and boxes for the distribution or
management of water flowing in such watercourse. Any person, officer of canal
company or any corporation, whether public or private, violating or suffering
or permitting a violation of this chapter due to their negligence shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor; and shall, in addition to the penalty prescribed for
violation of this chapter, be liable for all damages and detriment caused to
the city of Logan's infrastructure and other public or private property. Each
separate day shall be deemed a separate violation of this chapter. (Ord. 13-23,
2013)
12.28.020: OBSTRUCTION CAUSING FLOODING; RESPONSIBILITY:
Whenever, by reason of the operation or maintenance, or lack thereof, of any
dam or obstruction, whether manmade or natural, in the channel or floodway of
any river or stream, any person, firm or corporation, whether public or
private, causes the water flowing in such channel to be raised or backed up so
that there is danger that the same will overflow the banks or floodway of such
stream above those naturally occurring and associated with the flows, and cause
damage to public or private property within the city of Logan, where the same
would not be occasioned except for the operation and maintenance, or lack
thereof, of such dam or obstruction, it shall be the duty of such person, firm
or corporation, whether public or private, to take such measures as shall
protect public or private property from injury by reason of the dam or
obstruction. (Ord. 13-23, 2013)
12.28.025: FLOOD MANAGEMENT ALONG NATURAL RIVERS, STREAMS, OR CREEKS:
   A.   The city of Logan and its designated agents shall have the
authorization to access private property, not including buildings or
structures, for the sole purpose of flood response, restoration, and mitigation
and to clean, maintain, restore, construct and manage the floodway of the
natural and manmade watercourses within the city of Logan upon the following
conditions:
      1.   The city of Logan or its designated agent shall contact the property
owner and occupants to schedule the time and locations for access to the
watercourses for the necessary response, restoration, or mitigation work. Where
property owners are not able to be contacted in a reasonable time frame, the
city of Logan shall document attempts to contact the owner.
      2.   The city of Logan or its designated agent shall photograph or video
record, and further document the conditions of the access prior to, during, and
after the response, restoration, or mitigation work is completed.
      3.   The city of Logan or its designated agent shall reasonably restore
the private property to its condition prior to the access solely at the city of
Logan's cost and within a reasonable time frame agreed upon between the owner
and the city of Logan.
      4.   The city of Logan or its designated agent shall have reasonable
access to perform an annual inspection of watercourses associated with
flooding, whether natural or manmade upon the same conditions as other flood
management activities.
   B.   The city of Logan and its designated agents shall be authorized to
perform necessary flood response activities including emergency maintenance
such as the maintenance of berms or levies, removal of debris and garbage, and
other emergency services in the public interest in accordance with the access
requirements of this section. While the city of Logan may provide sandbags,
these response activities may not include the installation of sandbags.
However, the city of Logan may assist in the maintenance and repair of sandbag
walls at the sole discretion of the public works director or the director's
designated agent. All such work shall be completed in compliance with all city,
state, and federal requirements and permits.
   C.   The city of Logan and its designated agents shall be authorized, at the
discretion of the city of Logan, to assist private and public property owners
with the restoration of watercourses, whether on public or private property,
upon receiving approval in writing from the property owner. Such work shall be
governed by the terms and conditions of the associated funding source and based
on the authorization of the owner of the property where the restoration work is
to take place. Upon completion of restoration work, the city of Logan shall
have access to inspect the effectiveness of the restoration work annually, upon
coordination with the property owner, to maintain the restoration work. All
such work shall be completed in compliance with all city, state, and federal
requirements and permits.
   D.   The city of Logan and its designated agents shall be authorized, at the
discretion of the city of Logan, to assist private and public property owners
with the mitigation of flooding and damage to watercourses, whether on public
or private property, upon receiving approval in writing from the property
owner. Such work shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the
associated funding source and based on the authorization of the owner of the
property where the mitigation is to take place. Upon completion of mitigation,
the city of Logan shall have access to inspect the effectiveness of the
mitigation work annually, upon coordination with the property owner, to
maintain the restoration work. All such work shall be completed in compliance
with all city, state and federal requirements and permits. (Ord. 13-23, 2013)
12.28.030: MANAGER OF DIVISION OF STREETS; DUTIES:
Whenever any lock is kept on any headgate in any canal, ditch or lateral
flowing through the city, the person owning, controlling or maintaining such
canal, ditch or lateral shall furnish to the manager of the division of streets
a duplicate key to such lock; and whenever any such canal, ditch or lateral
within this city, in the opinion of the manager of the division of streets, is
out of repair in any particular or obstructed by debris or otherwise so as to
prevent the free flow of water therein to such an extent that danger to
property, public or private, might reasonably be apprehended, the manager of
the division of streets shall turn out all of or such part of the water flowing
in such canal, ditch or lateral as may be necessary to adequately protect
public and private property. Upon taking such action, the manager of the
division of streets shall notify the watermaster in charge of such canal, ditch
or lateral, if any there be, of his or her action or the manager of the
division of streets may post a notice at or near such headgate to the effect
that such canal, ditch or lateral must be put in proper condition before the
same may be used in the event that all of the water flowing therein has been
turned out, or that no greater quantity must be turned therein until necessary
repairs have been made in the event a part of the water flowing in such canal,
ditch or lateral has been turned out. It is unlawful for any person to turn
more water into such canal, ditch or lateral until the same has been put in a
safe and proper condition for carrying the same. (Prior code § 16-1-3)
12.28.040: FILING NAME OF WATERMASTER REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation operating any
watercourse within the city of Logan to file with the manager of the division
of streets the name and contact information of the board members and
watermaster elected or appointed upon such watercourse, and thereafter,
whenever any change is made in such election or appointment, the name and
contact information of such watermaster shall also be filed as set forth in
this chapter. (Ord. 13-23, 2013)
12.28.050: WATERCOURSE MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether public or
private, owning, having the charge of or operating any watercourse, including
rivers, streams, ditches, canals, or drainage systems within the corporate
limits of the city of Logan to allow the same to become dangerous or defective,
or to allow, suffer or permit water at or in such canal or watercourse to leak,
percolate or flow therefrom to and upon the public streets or sidewalks of the
city of Logan, to suffer or permit such water to accumulate in swampy or
stagnant pools injurious and detrimental to public health, or to damage other
public or private property. It is made the duty of the several owners, masters
or agent of any watercourse, upon notice from the public works director, or the
director's designated agent, or the impacted property owner that any
watercourse under his, her or its care requires maintenance, to immediately
remedy the defective condition of such watercourse. If there is a substantial
likelihood during the course of such maintenance that the owner, master, or
agent of a watercourse will require access onto or through private property
outside of the easement's extent or width, or will cause any person or thing to
cross onto private property outside of the easement's extent or width, notice
of the need for access shall be given to the necessary property owners within
forty-eight (48) hours of the planned access.
   B.   All owners or occupants of property in the city of Logan having
watercourses running in front, besides, behind, or through their property are
required to allow or provide maintenance and keep such watercourses clean so
that the full stream of the water therein, whether irrigation or stormwater,
shall not cause the watercourses to overflow or become unreasonably restricted
to the injury of streets, sidewalks, or other public or private property. Where
property owners cannot or choose not to allow ditch users, canal companies, or
the city of Logan access onto or through private property outside of the
easement's extent or width to provide such maintenance, the property owners are
solely responsible to provide this maintenance. All owners or occupants of
property under this requirement shall respond upon request to the notifying
party, within twenty-four (24) hours of such notice stating whether they will
allow access or provide the maintenance to the watercourse and a schedule
within which they shall provide the required maintenance. (Ord. 13-23, 2013;
amd. Ord. 22-02, 2-1-2022)
12.28.060: OBSTRUCTION ON WATER DITCHES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, other than certified water users or associated
ditch or canal company, or the city of Logan, to place or maintain, in or about
any watercourse or curb and gutter, any obstruction of any kind which hinders
or prevents the free flow of the full stream of water through such watercourses
or curb and gutter. (Ord. 13-23, 2013)
12.28.070: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Penalty provisions pertaining to violations of this code are found in chapter
1.16 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code § 16-5-1)
CHAPTER 12.30
RIGHT OF WAY PARKING
(Rep. by Ord. 14-75, 2014)
CHAPTER 12.32
CITY CEMETERY
SECTION:
12.32.010: Sexton; Created; Duties
12.32.020: Sale Of Lots; Certificates; Price
12.32.030: Failure To Pay; Notice
12.32.040: Payment; Ordering Party Responsible
12.32.050: Fees
12.32.060: Interment; Disinterment; Specifications
12.32.070: Burial Must Be In The Cemetery
12.32.080: Lot Maintenance
12.32.090: Headboards And Tombstones
12.32.100: Fencing Or Curbing Unlawful
12.32.110: Planting Of Trees And Shrubs Under Jurisdiction Of Mayor
12.32.120: Prohibited Acts
12.32.010: SEXTON; CREATED; DUTIES:
The office of city sexton is created. The city sexton shall be appointed by the
mayor. It shall be the duty of the city sexton to take charge of the city
cemetery, under the supervision of the mayor, and improve the grounds thereof,
subject to the approval of the mayor, and dig or cause to be dug, all graves
required for the same. The city sexton shall be registrar of deaths for the
city, and before burying any dead body in the city cemetery the city sexton
shall require the person having charge of the body to furnish in writing a
statement of the death which shall be recorded by her or him. The statement, as
well as record, shall include the name of the deceased person with the name of
his or her parents or other relatives, stating when and where born, the date of
death and cause thereof, together with the name of the attending physician, and
all information required by state law. (Prior code § 13-2-1)
12.32.020: SALE OF LOTS; CERTIFICATES; PRICE:
The sexton is empowered to sell lots in the cemetery and to collect for same.
The sexton shall not sell more than one lot to any person residing in the city
and shall not sell more than one-half (1/2) lot to any person residing outside
of the city. All money so collected shall be paid by him to the city treasurer
when received. The sexton shall give to each purchaser a receipt of payment
therefor, with a description of the lot so purchased; and the mayor of the city
is authorized to execute to purchaser a cemetery deed of the lot so purchased.
The price of each improved lot shall be not less than three hundred dollars
($300.00) for residents of the city and six hundred dollars ($600.00) ($300.00
for a half lot) for nonresidents of the city, which shall include the perpetual
care of the lot. In the event of clerical error in the cemetery deed, no
interest shall pass by the deed until a corrected deed is furnished. (Prior
code § 13-2-2)
12.32.030: FAILURE TO PAY; NOTICE:
   A.   All purchasers who fail to pay for any burial lot or lots in the city
cemetery after demand in writing by registered or certified mail addressed to
the last known address as it appears on city records shall be deemed to have
forfeited their rights to the same. It shall be the duty of the city sexton,
after payment on cemetery lot shall have been delinquent more than six (6)
months, to make written demand upon purchaser or purchaser's heirs for the
payment of the balance in full within a stated reasonable time after such
notice, which shall be served by registered or certified mail and a return
receipt requested. A copy of such demand together with the postal receipt shall
be filed in the office of the sexton.
   B.   A failure of such purchaser or purchaser's heirs to pay in full for
such lot or lots upon such written notice and demand being served upon him
shall forfeit all rights to the unused portion of such lot or lots, and the
same shall be deemed to be repossessed by the city; and the city sexton may
proceed to sell to others any such unused portion of such repossessed burial
lot or lots. (Prior code § 13-2-3)
12.32.040: PAYMENT; ORDERING PARTY RESPONSIBLE:
It shall be the duty of every person, whether undertaker, relative or friend of
deceased person, who orders a grave dug or a vault constructed for the burial
of a deceased person, to pay for such work. Every person making or placing an
order for such work shall be responsible for the payment of the same to the
city in cash at time of order. (Prior code § 13-2-11)
12.32.050: FEES:
The sexton is required to collect from those desiring the sexton's services and
to pay into the city treasury the fees set by resolution of the municipal
council and mayor. (Prior code § 13-2-8)
12.32.060: INTERMENT; DISINTERMENT; SPECIFICATIONS:
No person or persons shall be allowed to inter their dead in such cemetery
without first obtaining from the sexton or the mayor a certificate of purchase
of the lot used for burial purposes, or if they do not own a lot, they shall
then be required to furnish a written permit from the owner thereof, which
shall be filed with the sexton; and no person shall disinter any body buried in
such cemetery, unless under the direction of the sexton, and before
disinterment the sexton shall require a permit from the board of health and a
written order from the owner of the lot authorizing such removal, which order
the sexton shall file and preserve, and all such removals shall be recorded by
the sexton. It is unlawful to remove the body of any person who has died of a
contagious disease within two (2) years from the date of the burial, except
such body has been buried in a hermetically sealed coffin. (Prior code § 13-2-
7)
12.32.070: BURIAL MUST BE IN THE CEMETERY:
It is unlawful for any person to bury the body of a deceased person within the
limits of the city, except in the city cemetery. (Prior code § 13-2-9)
12.32.080: LOT MAINTENANCE:
It shall be the duty of every person owning lots in the cemetery, not in
perpetual care, to keep the same watered and cared for. Such person shall pay
annually to the city treasurer or sexton for such work the sum of ten dollars
($10.00) per lot, on or before May 15 in each year; such tax to be in full
payment of water rates and to include payment for watering and cutting lawns.
(Prior code § 13-2-10)
12.32.090: HEADBOARDS AND TOMBSTONES:
The owners of lots or relatives of deceased persons buried in such ground are
required to erect and maintain in repair, tombstones or other suitable
monuments at the head of graves with the names of the deceased plainly
inscribed thereon. All headstones and monuments must be set in concrete with a
six inch (6") apron or flange flush with the ground level. (Prior code § 13-2-
4)
12.32.100: FENCING OR CURBING UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to erect any fence or other boundary mark upon
any lot or lots in such cemetery or grade the ground or land thereof. (Prior
code § 13-2-5)
12.32.110: PLANTING OF TREES AND SHRUBS UNDER JURISDICTION OF MAYOR:
No person owning or controlling any cemetery lot shall plant or permit any
tree, shrub, flower or hedge to grow thereon unless the prior written approval
of the mayor is obtained. (Prior code § 13-2-6)
12.32.120: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to injure, molest, deface or otherwise
damage or remove any headstone, curbing, urn, monument, tree, shrub, flowers,
funeral flowers, floral pieces, vases and containers, or any other property in
the city cemetery. This section shall not apply to the city sexton or employees
of the city sexton's department who are performing their assigned work. This
section shall not apply to any person who is removing flowers, vases or
containers which such person has placed upon a cemetery lot.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit in any part of the
city cemetery the carcass of any dead animals, meat, fish, rubbish, refuse,
filth, trash, garbage, building materials or any like substance, or any object
or substance that will detract from the beauty of the cemetery.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to take any animal into the city cemetery
or permit any animal owned or in the custody of such person to enter the city
cemetery. (Prior code § 13-2-12)
CHAPTER 12.36
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
12.36.010: Declaration Of Findings And Intent; Scope
12.36.020: Definitions
12.36.030: Franchise Required
12.36.040: Compensation And Other Payments
12.36.050: Franchise Applications
12.36.060: Construction And Technical Requirements
12.36.070: Franchise, License, Transfer Or Sale
12.36.080: Oversight And Regulation
12.36.090: Rights Of City
12.36.100: Obligation To Notify; Publicizing Work
12.36.110: General Provisions
12.36.120: Federal, State And City Jurisdiction
12.36.010: DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND INTENT; SCOPE:
   A.   Declaration Of Finding And Intent:
      1.   Findings Regarding Rights Of Way: The city finds that the rights of
way within the city:
         a.   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property
in the business and social life of the city;
         b.   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
         c.   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and
other public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered
for profit, to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general economic
well being of the city and its citizens; and
         d.   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and
negative effects upon the public from such facilities' construction, placement,
relocation, and maintenance in the rights of way.
      2.   Finding Regarding Compensation: The city finds that the city should
receive fair and reasonable compensation for use of the rights of way.
      3.   Finding Regarding Local Concern: The city finds that while
telecommunications systems are in part an extension of interstate commerce,
their operations also involve rights of way, municipal franchising, and vital
business and community service, which are of local concern.
      4.   Finding Regarding Promotion Of Telecommunications Services: The city
finds that it is in the best interests of its taxpayers and citizens to promote
the rapid development of telecommunications services, on a nondiscrimination
basis, responsive to community and public interest, and to assure availability
for municipal, educational and community services.
      5.   Findings Regarding Franchise Standards: The city finds that it is in
the interests of the public to franchise and to establish standards for
franchising providers in a manner that:
         a.   Fairly and reasonably compensates the city on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein;
         b.   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under
which providers may use the rights of way to serve the public;
         c.   Fully protects the public interests and the city from any harm
that may flow from such commercial use of rights of way;
         d.   Protects the police powers and rights of way management authority
of the city, in a manner consistent with federal and state law;
         e.   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and
use of the city infrastructure;
         f.   Protects the public's investment in improvements in the rights of
way; and
         g.   Ensures that no barriers to entry of telecommunications providers
are created and that such franchising is accomplished in a manner that does not
prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting telecommunication services, within
the meaning of the telecommunications act of 1996 ("act") (PL 104-104).
      6.   Power To Manage Rights Of Way: The city adopts the
telecommunications ordinance codified in this chapter pursuant to its power to
manage the rights of way, pursuant to common law, the Utah constitution and
statutory authority, and receive fair and reasonable compensation for the use
of rights of way by providers as expressly set forth by section 253 of the act.
   B.   Scope: In order to regulate the City’s Rights of Way more efficiently,
this chapter shall provide the basic local scheme for providers of
Telecommunications and Information Services and systems as defined in the Act
that require the use of the rights of way, including providers of both the
system and service, those providers of the system only, and those providers who
do not build the system but who only provide services. This chapter shall apply
to all future providers and to all providers in the city prior to the effective
date of said ordinance, whether operating with or without a franchise as set
forth in subsection
12.36.120B of this chapter.
   C.   Excluded Activity:
      1.   Cable TV: This chapter shall not apply to cable television operators
otherwise regulated by the “cable television ordinance”.
      2.   Wireless Services: This chapter shall not apply to personal wireless
service facilities.
      3.   Provisions Applicable To Excluded Providers: Providers excused by
other law that prohibits the city from requiring a franchise shall not be
required to obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this
chapter through the exercise of the city’s police power and not preempted by
other law shall be applicable. (Ord. 98-72 § 1, 1998; amd. Ord. 23-13, 4-18-
2023)
12.36.020: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The word
"shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
APPLICATION: The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates a
desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the rights of way of all, or a
part, of the city. An application includes all written documentation, verbal
statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a provider
to the city concerning: the construction of a telecommunications system over,
under, on or through the rights of way; the telecommunications services
proposed to be provided in the city by a provider; and any other matter
pertaining to a proposed system or service.
CITY: Logan City, Utah.
COMPLETION DATE: The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers in the city.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS: All costs of constructing a system, including make ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney or accountant fees, or other
consulting fees.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert, of more
than twenty five percent (25%) of any provider (which person or group of
persons is hereinafter referred to as "controlling person"). "Control" or
"controlling interest" as used herein may be held simultaneously by more than
one person or group of persons.
FCC: The federal communications commission, or any successor thereto.
FRANCHISE: The rights and obligation extended by the city to a provider to own,
lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a system in the rights of way within
the boundaries of the city. Any such authorization, in whatever form granted,
shall not mean or include:
   A.   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the city required by the
ordinances and laws of the city;
   B.   Any other permit, agreement or authorization required in connection
with operations on rights of way or public property including, without
limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits
or other structures, whether owned by the city or a private entity, or for
excavating or performing other work in or along the rights of way.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A contract entered into in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter between the city and a franchisee that sets forth, subject to
this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will be
exercised.
GROSS REVENUE: Includes all revenues of a provider that may be included as
gross revenue within the meaning of Utah Code Annotated § 10-1-402(4).
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the rights of way.
OPEN VIDEO SERVICE: Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights of way, by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to sections 651 et seq., of the
telecommunications act (to be codified at 47 USC title VI, part V), regardless
of the system used.
OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM: The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides,
fiber optic, microwave, laser beams, and any associated converters, equipment,
or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
amplifying or distributing open video services to or from subscribers or
locations within the city.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more persons owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
ORDINANCE OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE: The telecommunications ordinance
codified in this chapter concerning the granting of franchises in and by the
city for the construction, ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a
telecommunications system.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust, or any other legal entity, but not the city.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES: Has the same meaning as provided in
section 704 of the act (47 USC 322(c)(7)(c)), which includes what is commonly
known as cellular and PCS services that do not install any system or portion of
a system in the rights of way.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, resaler, or system lessee.
"PSC" means the public service commission, or any successor thereto.
RESALER: Refers to any person that provides local exchange service over a
system for which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or
lease the underlying system used for the transmission.
RIGHTS OF WAY: The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or hereafter
existing as such within the city.
SIGNAL: Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or laser
or radio frequency energy or optical information in either analog or digital
format.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by the
user, of information of the user’s choosing (e.g., data, video, and voice),
without change in the form or content of the information sent and received.
Telecommunications shall also include broadband highspeed internet access and
Information Services as defined in the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE(S): Any telecommunications services provided by a
provider within the city that the provider is authorized to provide under
federal, state and local law, and any equipment and/or facilities required for
and integrated with the services provided within the city, except that these
terms do not include “cable service” as defined in the cable communications
policy act of 1984, as amended by the cable television consumer protection and
competition act of 1992 (47 USC section 521 et seq.), and the
telecommunications act of 1996. For purposes of this chapter, the term
“Telecommunications Service(s)” shall be construed to include broadband
Internet access service as defined in 47 C.F.R. § 8.1(b).
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a provider, located in the rights of
way and utilized in the provision of services, including fully digital or
analog, voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced telecommunications
services. "Telecommunications system" or "systems" also includes an open video
system.
WIRE: Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
(Ord. 98-72 § 2, 1998; amd. Ord. 23-13, 4-18-2023)
12.36.030: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
   A.   Nonexclusive Franchise: The city is empowered and authorized to issue
nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction, and
maintenance of systems in the city's rights of way, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the city and provider.
   B.   Every Provider Must Obtain: Except to the extent preempted by federal
or state law, as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including any appeals, every provider must obtain a franchise prior to
constructing a telecommunications system or providing telecommunications
services using the rights of way, and every provider must obtain a franchise
before constructing an open video system or providing open video services via
an open video system. Any open video system or service shall be subject to the
customer service and consumer protection provisions applicable to the cable TV
companies to the extent the city is not preempted or permitted as ultimately
interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction, including any appeals. The
fact that particular telecommunications systems may be used for multiple
purposes does not obviate the need to obtain a franchise for other purposes. By
way of illustration and not limitation, a cable operator of a cable system must
obtain a cable franchise, and, should it intend to provide telecommunications
services over the same system, must also obtain a telecommunications franchise.
   C.   Nature Of Grant: A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or
legal, in the rights of way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights of
way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period
stated in the franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned, or
subleased. A franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate
access or pole attachment agreements before collocating its system on the
property of others, including the city's property. This section shall not be
construed to prohibit a provider from leasing conduit to another provider, so
long as the lessee has obtained a franchise.
   D.   Current Providers: Except to the extent exempted by federal or state
law, any provider acting without a franchise on the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter shall request issuance of a franchise from
the city within ninety (90) days of the effective date of said ordinance. If
such request is made, the provider may continue providing service during the
course of negotiations. If a timely request is not made, or if negotiations
cease and a franchise is not granted, the provider shall comply with the
provisions of subsection
12.36.090D of this chapter.
   E.   Nature Of Franchise: The franchise granted by the city under the
provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise providing the
right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove and replace its system
on, over and under the rights of way in order to provide services.
   F.   Regulatory Approval Needed: Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of
such services from the appropriate federal, state and local authorities, if
required, and shall submit to the city upon the written request of the city
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
   G.   Term: No franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall have a term of
less than five (5) years or greater than fifteen (15) years. Each franchise
shall be granted in a nondiscriminatory manner. (Ord. 98-72 § 3,1998)
12.36.040: COMPENSATION AND OTHER PAYMENTS:
   A.   Compensation: As fair and reasonable compensation for any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall have the following
obligations:
      1.   Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the city to review
an application for a franchise and in addition to all other fees, permits or
charges, a provider shall pay to the city, at the time of application, five
hundred dollars ($500.00) as a nonrefundable application fee.
      2.   Franchise Fees: The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the
franchise agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence on
the completion date. The franchise fee is offset by any business license fee or
business license tax enacted by the city.
      3.   Excavation Permits: The provider shall also pay fees required for an
excavation permit as provided in chapter 12.06, "Right Of Way Construction", of
this title.
   B.   Timing: Unless otherwise agreed to in the franchise agreement, all
franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within forty five (45) days of
the close of each calendar month.
   C.   Fee Statement And Certification: Unless a franchise agreement provides
otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the
manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to its
accuracy.
   D.   Future Costs: A provider shall pay to the city or to third parties, at
the direction of the city, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and
reasonable expenses that the city incurs for the services of third parties
(including, but not limited to, attorneys and other consultants) in connection
with any renewal or provider initiated renegotiation, or amendment of this
chapter or a franchise, provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon a
reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations. In the event the
parties are unable to agree, either party may submit the issue to binding
arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of the American
Arbitration Association. Any costs associated with any work to be done by the
power and public works department to provide space on city owned poles shall be
borne by the provider.
   E.   Taxes And Assessments: To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities, other than the city on the use of the city
property as a result of a provider's use or occupation of the rights of way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Interest On Late Payments: In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the city on or before the applicable date fixed in the
franchise, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the
rate charged for delinquent state taxes.
   G.   No Accord And Satisfaction: No acceptance by the city of any fee shall
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount,
nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any
claim the city may have for additional sums payable.
   H.   Not In Lieu Of Other Taxes Or Fees: The fee payment is not a payment in
lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment except as specifically provided in
this chapter, or as required by applicable law. By way of example, and not
limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the city owned
poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   I.   Continuing Obligation And Holdover: In the event a provider continues
to operate all or any part of the system after the term of the franchise, such
operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter and the franchise, including, without limitation, all compensation and
other payment provisions throughout the period of such continued operation,
provided that any such continued operation shall in no way be construed as a
renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a limitation on the
remedies, if any, available to the city as a result of such continued operation
after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and restitution.
   J.   Costs Of Publication: A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise that may be required by law. (Ord. 98-72 § 4,
1998)
12.36.050: FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Franchise Application: To obtain a franchise to construct, own,
maintain or provide services through any system within the city, to obtain a
renewal of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, or to obtain the city
approval of a transfer of a franchise, as provided in subsection
12.36.070A2 of this chapter, granted pursuant to this chapter, an application
must be filed with city on the form attached as exhibit A to ordinance 98-72,
which is incorporated by reference. The application form may be changed by the
mayor so long as such changes request information that is consistent with this
chapter. Such application form, as amended, is incorporated by reference.
   B.   Application Criteria: In making a determination as to an application
filed pursuant to this chapter, the city may, but shall not be limited to,
request the following from the provider:
      1.   A copy of the order from the PSC granting a certificate of
convenience and necessity;
      2.   Certification of the provider's financial ability to compensate the
city for provider's intrusion, maintenance and use of the rights of way during
the franchise term proposed by the provider;
      3.   Provider's agreement to comply with the requirements of section
12.36.060 of this chapter.
      4.   Prior to making any attachments to poles, the willingness to enter
into a pole attachment agreement with the city.
   C.   Franchise Determination: The city, in its discretion, shall determine
the award of any franchise on the basis of these and other considerations
relevant to the use of the rights of way, without competitive bidding. (Ord.
98-72 § 5, 1998)
12.36.060: CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirement: No provider shall receive a franchise unless it
agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this section governing
construction and technical requirements for its system, in addition to any
other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the city or the
franchise, including requirements regarding locating and sharing in the cost of
locating portions of the system with other systems or with city utilities. A
provider shall obtain an excavation permit, pursuant to the excavation
ordinance, before commencing any work in the rights of way.
   B.   Quality: All work involved in the construction, maintenance, repair,
upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a safe, thorough and
reliable manner using materials of good and durable quality. If, at any time,
it is determined by the FCC or any other agency granted authority by federal
law or the FCC to make such determination, that any part of the system,
including, without limitation, any means used to distribute signals over or
within the system, is harmful to the public health, safety or welfare, or
quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   C.   Licenses And Permits: A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or
other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, maintain,
upgrade or repair the system, including, but not limited to, any necessary
approvals from persons and/or the city to use private property, easements,
poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval or authorization, including, but not limited to, excavation permits,
pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the commencement of the activity for
which the permit, license, approval or authorization is required.
   D.   Relocation Of The System:
      1.   New Grades Or Lines: If the grades or lines of any rights of way are
changed at any time in a manner affecting the system, then a provider shall
comply with the requirements of the excavation ordinance.
      2.   The City Authority To Move System In Case Of An Emergency: The city
may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined
by the city in its reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts of the system
and appurtenances on, over or under the rights of way of the city, in which
event the city shall not be liable therefor to a provider. The city shall
notify a provider in writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon
as possible and in no case later than the next business day following any
action taken under this section. Notice shall be given as provided in
subsection
12.36.110D of this chapter.
      3.   A Provider Required To Temporarily Move System For Third Party: A
provider shall, upon prior reasonable written notice by the city or any person
holding a permit to move any structure, and within the time that is reasonable
under the circumstances, temporarily move any part of its system to permit the
moving of said structure. A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any
person other than the city for any such movement of its systems.
      4.   Rights Of Way Change; Obligation To Move System: When the city is
changing a right of way and makes a written request in a reasonable and timely
manner, a provider is required to move or remove its system from the right of
way, without cost to the city, to the extent provided in the excavation
ordinance. This obligation does not apply to systems originally located on
private property pursuant to a private easement, which property was later
incorporated into the rights of way, if that private easement grants a superior
vested right. This obligation exists whether or not the provider has obtained
excavation permit.
   E.   Protect Structures: In connection with the construction, maintenance,
repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to the city and all
designated landmarks, as well as all other structures within any designated
landmark district. A provider shall obtain the prior written consent of the
city to alter any water main, power facility, sewerage or drainage system, or
any other municipal structure on, over or under the rights of way of the city
required because of the presence of the system. Any such alteration shall be
made by the city or its designee on a reimbursable basis. A provider agrees
that it shall be liable for the costs incurred by the city to replace or repair
and restore to its prior condition in a manner as may be reasonably specified
by the city, any municipal structure or any other rights of way of the city
involved in the construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the
system that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of any work thereon by
or on behalf of a provider pursuant to the franchise.
   F.   No Obstruction: In connection with the construction, maintenance,
upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not unreasonably
obstruct the rights of way of fixed guide way systems, railways, passenger
travel, or other traffic to, from or within the city without the prior consent
of the appropriate authorities.
   G.   Safety Precautions: A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. A provider shall comply
with all applicable federal, state and local requirements including, but not
limited to, the national electric safety code.
   H.   Repair: After written reasonable notice to the provider, unless, in the
sole determination of the city, an eminent danger exists, any rights of way
within the city which are disturbed or damaged during the construction,
maintenance or reconstruction by a provider of its system may be repaired by
the city at the provider's expense, to a condition as good as that prevailing
before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the city shall submit to such a
provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and restoring the
rights of way intruded upon. The provider shall, within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the statement, pay to the city the entire amount thereof.
   I.   System Maintenance: A provider shall:
      1.   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a nondangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise.
      2.   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the national
electrical safety code and all other applicable federal, state and local laws
or regulations.
      3.   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the city of the system and its effect on the rights of way.
   J.   Trimming Of Trees: A provider shall have the authority to trim trees,
in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and easement
restrictions, upon and hanging over rights of way so as to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with its system. (Ord. 98-72 § 6, 1998)
12.36.070: FRANCHISE, LICENSE, TRANSFER OR SALE:
   A.   Notification Of Sale:
      1.   Notification And Election: When a provider is the subject of a sale,
transfer, lease, assignment, sublease or disposed of, in whole or in part,
either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or
otherwise, such that it or its successor entity is obligated to inform or seek
the approval of the PSC, the provider or its successor entity shall promptly
notify the city of the nature of the transaction. The notification shall
include either:
         a.   The successor entity's certification that the successor entity
unequivocally agrees to all of the terms of the original provider's franchise
agreement; or
         b.   The successor entity's application in compliance with section
12.36.050 of this chapter.
      2.   Transfer Of Franchise: Upon receipt of a notification and
certification in accordance with subsection A1a of this section, the city
designee, as provided in subsection
12.36.090A1 of this chapter, shall send notice affirming the transfer of the
franchise to the successor entity. If the city has good cause to believe that
the successor entity may not comply with this chapter or the franchise
agreement, it may require an application for the transfer. The application
shall comply with section
12.36.050 of this chapter.
      3.   If PSC Approval No Longer Required: If the PSC no longer exists, or
if its regulations or state law no longer require approval of transactions
described in subsection A of this section, and the city has good cause to
believe that the successor entity may not comply with this ordinance or the
franchise agreement, it may require an application. The application shall
comply with section
12.36.050 of this chapter.
   B.   Events Of Sale: The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of the franchise requiring compliance with
subsection A of this section: 1) the sale, assignment or other transfer of all
or a majority of a provider's assets to another person; 2) the sale, assignment
or other transfer of capital stock or partnership, membership or other equity
interests in a provider by one or more of its existing shareholders, partners,
members or other equity owners so as to create a new controlling interest in a
provider; 3) the issuance of additional capital stock or partnership,
membership or other equity interest by a provider so as to create a new
controlling interest in such a provider; or 4) the entry by a provider into an
agreement with respect to the management or operation of such provider or its
system. (Ord. 98-72 § 7, 1998)
12.36.080: OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION:
   A.   Insurance, Indemnity, And Security: Prior to the execution of a
franchise, a provider will deposit with the city an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit or surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and
shall obtain and provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the
franchise. A provider shall also indemnify the city as set forth in the
franchise.
   B.   Oversight: The city shall have the right to oversee, regulate and
inspect periodically the construction, maintenance, and upgrade of the system,
and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the franchise and
applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain managerial and
operational records, standards, procedures and controls to enable a provider to
prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the city at all times
throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with the franchise. A
provider shall retain such records for not less than the applicable statute of
limitations.
   C.   Maintain Records: A provider shall at all times maintain:
      1.   On file with the city, a full and complete set of plans, records and
"as built" hard copy maps and, to the extent the maps are placed in an
electronic format, they shall be made in electronic format compatible with the
city's existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the
types of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights of way,
properly identified and described as to the types of equipment and facility by
appropriate symbols and marks which shall include annotations of all rights of
way where work will be undertaken. As used herein, "as built" maps includes
"file construction prints". Maps shall be drawn to scale. "As built" maps,
including the compatible electronic format, as provided above, shall be
submitted within thirty (30) days of completion of work or within thirty (30)
days after completion of modification and repairs. "As built" maps are not
required of the provider who is the incumbent local exchange carrier for the
existing system to the extent they do not exist.
      2.   Throughout the term of the franchise, a provider shall maintain
complete and accurate books of account and records of the business, ownership,
and operations of a provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows
the city at all times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the
franchise. Should the city reasonably determine that the records are not being
maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the
books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance
with this section. All financial books and records which are maintained in
accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that
regulates utilities in the state of Utah, and generally accepted accounting
principles shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section.
   D.   Confidentiality: If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by federal, state or local
law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall be classified as
a protected record within the meaning of the Utah government records access and
management act ("GRAMA"), making it available only to those who must have
access to perform their duties on behalf of the city, provided that a provider
notifies the city of, and clearly labels the information which a provider deems
to be confidential, proprietary information. Such notification and labeling
shall be the sole responsibility of the provider.
   E.   Provider's Expense: All reports and records required under this chapter
shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter or a franchise.
   F.   Right Of Inspection: For the purpose of verifying the correct amount of
the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto
shall be open to inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives of the
city at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records, provided that the city shall not audit
the books and records of the provider more often than annually. The provider
agrees to reimburse the city the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit
discloses that the provider has paid ninety five percent (95%) or less of the
compensation due the city for the period of such audit. In the event the
accounting rendered to the city by the provider herein is found to be
incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount within thirty
(30) calendar days of written notice, it being agreed that the city may accept
any amount offered by the provider, but the acceptance thereof by the city
shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount is in dispute or is
later found to be incorrect. (Ord. 98-72 § 8, 1998)
12.36.090: RIGHTS OF CITY:
   A.   Enforcement And Remedies:
      1.   Enforcement; City Designee: The city is responsible for enforcing
and administering this chapter, and the city or its designee, as appointed by
the mayor, is authorized to give any notice required by law or under any
franchise agreement.
      2.   Enforcement Provision: Any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation, and
protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures for
accessing the bond/security fund, and rights of termination or revocation.
   B.   Force Majeure: In the event a provider's performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this chapter or a franchise is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider's control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes or events
not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation, acts of
God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of
utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural disasters such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides, and fires.
   C.   Extended Operation And Continuity Of Services:
      1.   Continuation After Expiration: Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the city shall have discretion
to permit a provider to continue to operate its system or provide services for
an extended period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its system under
the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter.
      2.   Continuation By Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier: If the provider is
the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   D.   Removal Or Abandonment Of Franchise Property:
      1.   Abandoned System: In the event that: a) the use of any portion of
the system is discontinued for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, and
thirty (30) days after no response to written notice from the city to the last
known address of provider; b) any system has been installed in the rights of
way without complying with the requirements this chapter or franchise; or c)
the provisions of subsection
12.36.030E of this chapter are applicable and no franchise is granted, a
provider, except the provider who is an incumbent local exchange carrier, shall
be deemed to have abandoned such system.
      2.   Removal Of Abandoned System: The city, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system, or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time the
abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights of way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights of way in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The city shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights of way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
chapter and any security fund provided in a franchise shall continue in full
force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a
provider with the terms and conditions of this section.
      3.   Transfer Of Abandoned System To City: Upon abandonment of any system
in place, a provider, if required by the city, shall submit to the city a
written instrument, satisfactory in form to the city, transferring to the city
the ownership of the abandoned system.
      4.   Removal Of Aboveground System: At the expiration of the term for
which a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this chapter, in any such case without renewal, extension or
transfer, the city shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its
expense, all aboveground portions of a system from the rights of way within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one hundred eighty
(180) days. If the provider is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall
not be required to remove its system, but shall negotiate a renewal in good
faith.
      5.   Leaving Underground System: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth in this chapter, a provider may abandon any underground system in
place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the rights of
way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or other
person. (Ord. 98-72 § 9,1998)
12.36.100: OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY; PUBLICIZING WORK:
Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good faith
attempt to contact the property owners in advance, and describe the work to be
performed. (Ord. 98-72 § 10, 1998)
12.36.110: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conflicts: In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this chapter
in effect at the time the franchise is entered into shall control.
   B.   Severability: If any provision of this chapter is held by any federal,
state or local court of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting
with any federal or state statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in
any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law and all
appellate remedies with regard to the validity of the chapter provisions in
question are exhausted, such provision shall be considered a separate,
distinct, and independent part of this chapter, and such holding shall not
affect the validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the
event that such law is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise
changed, so that the provision which had been held invalid or modified is no
longer in conflict with such law the provision in question shall return to full
force and effect and shall again be binding on the city and the provider,
provided that the city shall give the provider thirty (30) days, or a longer
period of time as may be reasonably required for a provider to comply with such
a rejuvenated provision, written notice of the change before requiring
compliance with such provision.
   C.   New Developments: It shall be the policy of the city to liberally amend
this chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable the
provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently, or economically serve itself or the public.
   D.   Notices: All notices from a provider to the city required under this
chapter or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
directed to the officer as designated by the mayor. A provider shall provide in
any application for a franchise the identity, address and phone number to
receive notices from the city. A provider shall immediately notify the city of
any change in its name, address, or telephone number.
   E.   Exercise Of Police Power: To the full extent permitted by applicable
law either now or in the future, the city reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders, or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers. (Ord. 98-72 § 11,
1998)
12.36.120: FEDERAL, STATE AND CITY JURISDICTION:
   A.   Construction: This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent
with all applicable federal and state statutes.
   B.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all franchises granted or
renewed after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
This chapter shall further apply, to the extent permitted by applicable federal
or state law to all existing franchises granted prior to the effective date of
said ordinance and to a provider providing services, without a franchise, prior
to the effective date of said ordinance.
   C.   Other Applicable Ordinances: A provider's rights are subject to the
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to its
police powers. In particular, all providers shall comply with the city zoning
and other land use requirements.
   D.   City Failure To Enforce: A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter by reason of any failure of the city
to enforce prompt compliance.
   E.   Construed According To Utah Law: This chapter and any franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the
substantive laws of the state of Utah. (Ord. 98-72 § 12, 1998)
TITLE 13
PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 13.04
FRANCHISES
SECTION:
13.04.010: Application; Copies
13.04.020: Nonassignable
13.04.030: Manner Of Assignment
13.04.040: Forfeiture
13.04.050: Public Services; Violation; Penalty
13.04.060: Violation; Penalty
13.04.010: APPLICATION; COPIES:
Whenever application shall be made to the municipal council of the city by any
person, company or corporation for a franchise or grant of special privileges,
or for a renewal or extension of any existing franchise or grant of special
privilege, the person, persons, company or corporation shall furnish the
municipal council with five (5) copies of the proposed resolution or ordinance
and pay into the city treasury of the city the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Prior code § 7-17-1)
13.04.020: NONASSIGNABLE:
All franchises and grants of special privileges shall be deemed to be
nonassignable without the express permission of the municipal council, whether
such limitation is set forth in the body of the franchise or grant or not.
(Prior code § 7-17-2)
13.04.030: MANNER OF ASSIGNMENT:
All assignment of franchises and special grants must be in writing and a copy
thereof filed in the office of the city recorder, and the municipal council
must expressly consent thereto, before any such assignment or transfer will be
recognized by the city. (Prior code § 7-17-3)
13.04.040: FORFEITURE:
Any attempted assignment or transfer of a franchise or special privilege not
made in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall operate as a
forfeiture of all rights of the grantee therein given. (Prior code § 7-17-4)
13.04.050: PUBLIC SERVICES; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
No person or corporation may provide public services within the limits of the
city without a franchise. Public services include the supplying of water, gas,
electric power, light, communication and transportation services, commonly
known as public services or public utilities. Any person, company or
corporation violating this section shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months or by a fine not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in case of a person and not to exceed
limitations set by state law in case of a corporation. Any person or
corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each day or portion thereof during which the
offense is committed, continued or permitted. This section may be enforced at
the city's option by a civil action in the appropriate court for collection of
the maximum fine as a civil penalty. This section supersedes any other penalty
provision in this title and applies only to the providing of franchise type
services without a franchise from the city. (Ord. 87-48 § 1, 1987: prior code §
7-17-5)
13.04.060: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Penalty provisions pertaining to violations of this code are found in chapter
1.16 of this code. (1989 Code: prior code § 7-21-1)
CHAPTER 13.08
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
SECTION:
Article I. Waterworks
13.08.010: Superintendent Of Waterworks Created
13.08.020: Superintendent Of Waterworks Duties
13.08.030: City Not Responsible For Damages
13.08.040: Unlawful To Interfere With City Officer
13.08.050: Water Shortage; Mayoral Authority
13.08.060: Application
13.08.070: Application; Requirements
13.08.080: Shutoff Due To Unpaid Accounts
13.08.090: Rates And Connection Fees
13.08.100: Rates Outside City
13.08.110: Turnoff Authorized When
13.08.120: Turn On Unlawful; Exception
13.08.130: Emergency; Plumber May Shut Off Water
13.08.140: City's Right To Shut Off Water; No Liability
13.08.150: Separate Service To Individual Houses; Notice
13.08.160: Use Of Water By Unauthorized Person Unlawful
13.08.170: Unauthorized Persons Not To Interfere With Service Pipes
13.08.180: Right Of Entry To Eliminate Waste
13.08.190: Tampering With Waterworks Unlawful
13.08.200: Meter Installation
13.08.210: Permit Required For Extension; Violation
13.08.220: Service Pipe Attachments
13.08.230: Pipes; Quality
13.08.240: Steam Boilers
13.08.250: Posts Near Pipes Forbidden
13.08.260: Stop And Waste Cock Position
13.08.270: Deep Water Valve; Owner's Responsibility
13.08.280: Fire Hydrants
13.08.290: Fire Hydrants; Wrenches
13.08.300: Tampering With Fountains And Fire Hydrants Unlawful
Article II. Water Capital Improvement And Development
13.08.310: Fee (Rep. by Ord. 05-109 § 1, 2005)
13.08.320: Fee Amounts (Rep. by Ord. 05-109 § 1, 2005)
13.08.330: Water Main Lines; Credit For Frontage
13.08.340: Water Main Lines; Extensions
13.08.350: Water Main Lines; Installation
13.08.360: Water Main Lines; Connection
13.08.370: Reporting Completion Of Plumbing Work
Article III. Cross Connections
13.08.380: Generally
13.08.390: Definitions
13.08.400: Water System
13.08.410: Requirements
13.08.420: No Service With Unprotected Cross Connection
13.08.430: System To Be Open For Inspection
13.08.440: Backflow Preventer; Conditions
13.08.450: Backflow Preventer; Type
13.08.460: Backflow Preventer; Specifications
13.08.470: Backflow Preventer; Inspections
13.08.480: Backflow Preventer Exempt When
13.08.490: Spraying; Permit Required
Article IV. Enforcement
13.08.500: Violation; Penalty
13.08.510: Emergency Powers
13.08.520: Recovery Of Costs
ARTICLE I. WATERWORKS
13.08.010: SUPERINTENDENT OF WATERWORKS CREATED:
There is created and established in and for the city, the office of
superintendent of waterworks, who shall be appointed by the city commissioners
upon the recommendation of the commissioner of the waterworks department.
(Prior code § 16-4-1)
13.08.020: SUPERINTENDENT OF WATERWORKS DUTIES:
The superintendent of the waterworks shall, under the direction of the mayor,
have charge of the supply lines, reservoirs, water tanks, water mains, service
connections, water meters and fire hydrants and all machinery and appurtenances
appertaining to the waterworks department. The superintendent shall have the
direction of the laying of water mains, and putting in and determining the size
and kind of water mains and service pipes, and the regulation of the water
supply to the fire hydrants and to all consumers. (Prior code § 16-4-2)
13.08.030: CITY NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR DAMAGES:
Under no circumstances shall the city waterworks department be responsible for
damages done by water caused by frozen pipes or faulty valves or shutoff cocks
caused by use by plumbers or property owners. (Prior code § 16-4-25)
13.08.040: UNLAWFUL TO INTERFERE WITH CITY OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or obstruct the
superintendent or watermaster or any of their agents, servants or employees
while on the premises of any user, for inspection or in the performance of any
duty in connection with the water department of the city. (Prior code § 16-4-
29)
13.08.050: WATER SHORTAGE; MAYORAL AUTHORITY:
In the event of scarcity of water whenever it shall, in the judgment of the
mayor be necessary, the use of water for other than domestic purposes may be
limited to such extent as may be required for the public good. Such limitation
may be fixed by giving the public notice thereof. It is unlawful for any person
by herself, himself, family, servants or agents, to violate any limitation made
by the mayor, of this section. (Prior code § 16-4-28)
13.08.060: APPLICATION:
Applications for the use of water must be made on printed forms, furnished by
the department of water supply and waterworks and signed by the applicant. The
applicant shall state fully and truly the purpose for which water is required,
and shall agree to conform to, and be governed by, such rules and regulations
as may be prescribed by the mayor for the control of the water supply. The
applicant shall in his application state the location. The applicant shall
agree in his or her application to be responsible for and pay all bills due the
city on account of materials or labor furnished as provided in this section as
well as for all water supplied to the premises, and that the charge for water
shall commence when service connection is installed by the city to curb line,
metered and water turned on. (Prior code § 16-4-5)
13.08.070: APPLICATION; REQUIREMENTS:
Application signed by tenant must also be signed by the owner of the building
or grounds, consenting to and authorizing the introduction of water into such
premises and expressly agreeing to the terms embodied in the application. The
owner shall be liable for all water supplied to the tenant irrespective of any
agreement with tenant. (Prior code § 16-4-7)
13.08.080: SHUTOFF DUE TO UNPAID ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Water must not be turned on to any premises until all charges against
such premises that are due and payable to the city on account of any of the
following items, have first been paid:
      1.   Account due for water service received by the same or previous
owner, tenant or occupant of premises;
      2.   On account of labor or material furnished by the waterworks
department in the installation of service pipe; connecting the premises with
city mains; or for tapping the city mains; or for supplying, installing or
repairing any meter on account of water previously supplied to the premises,
whether used by the applicant or by some previous occupant of the premises; or
on account of the assessment of any fine for turning the water on or off.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to supply himself or herself with water
from the city water system or to supply water to any person except as covered
in the application. (Prior code § 16-4-6)
13.08.090: RATES AND CONNECTION FEES:
Rates for water services supplied by the city water department and connection
fees shall hereafter be established by rate and fee schedules, which may be
promulgated hereafter by order of the mayor of the city, and such rate and fee
schedules so established shall be the uniform and official water rates and
connection fees for the city water department until superseded. Upon acceptance
of any rate schedules for water rates or connection fee schedules by the mayor,
copies of such schedules shall be maintained at all times in the office of the
city recorder of the city, and shall at all times during the normal office
hours be available for inspection by the public. (Prior code § 16-4-9)
13.08.100: RATES OUTSIDE CITY:
The rates for water supplied to customers outside of the city limits of the
city shall be the same as the rates established for customers within the city
limits of the city, except that the minimum charge then in force shall be twice
the rate established for resident users. (Prior code § 16-4-23)
13.08.110: TURNOFF AUTHORIZED WHEN:
The superintendent or watermaster shall have the power and authority to turn
off the water from any premises where any water rates shall not be paid within
thirty (30) days after the period in which same becomes due, or upon any
violation of the rules and regulations pertaining to such water supply. (Prior
code § 16-4-16)
13.08.120: TURN ON UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person, except an employee in the city water department,
to turn on any water from the city water mains into service pipes to private
residences or places of business or premises when such water has been shut off
by the city water department; and the department must first be notified, and
must authorize water to be turned back into service pipes. (Prior code § 16-4-
17)
13.08.130: EMERGENCY; PLUMBER MAY SHUT OFF WATER:
In case of emergency or accident to service pipes, and in no other case, any
licensed plumber may shut off the water at the curb box to make necessary
repairs, where private shutoff has not been installed, in case such plumbers
have been unable to first get in touch with the city water department. In such
cases the city water department shall be immediately notified of such fact by
the plumber who turns off the water or cause the same to be turned off. In all
such cases when plumbers have turned water off at curb boxes to make repairs to
pipes or fixtures on any premises, they shall immediately notify the city water
department of such fact and shall leave the water turned off, to be turned on
by the city water department. In all such cases it shall be the duty of the
plumber to see that private shutoff is installed or in good repair as required
by city ordinances. The water shall not be turned on until private shutoff to
such premises has been installed. After the water has been turned off at curb
box, it shall be unlawful for the plumber or any other person, except the city
water department, to turn the water back into the service lines. (Prior code §
16-4-18)
13.08.140: CITY'S RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER; NO LIABILITY:
The city reserves the right at any time without notice, to shut off the water
from its mains for the purpose of making repairs or extensions or for other
purposes, and no claims shall be made against the city by reason of the
breakage of any service pipe or service cock, or for any other damage, that may
result from the shutting off of water for repairing, laying or relaying mains,
hydrants or other connections. (Prior code § 16-4-19)
13.08.150: SEPARATE SERVICE TO INDIVIDUAL HOUSES; NOTICE:
Where water is now supplied through one service to one or more houses or
persons, the superintendent of waterworks may refuse the water until separate
services are provided after sixty (60) days' written notice has been served
upon such tenant, occupant or owner requesting the installation of such
separate service to each house. (Prior code § 16-4-11)
13.08.160: USE OF WATER BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSON UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any water consumer to permit any person from other premises
or any unauthorized person to use or obtain water from such consumer's premises
or water fixtures, whether inside or outside of the consumer's building; and it
is unlawful for such unauthorized person to so take the water, except in
emergency cases. (Prior code § 16-4-12)
13.08.170: UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS NOT TO INTERFERE WITH SERVICE PIPES:
It is unlawful for any person except under the direction of the superintendent,
to dig into the street or sidewalk for the purpose of laying, removing or
repairing any service or other water pipe or main. (Prior code § 16-4-13)
13.08.180: RIGHT OF ENTRY TO ELIMINATE WASTE:
Free access in all proper hours shall be allowed to the superintendent or other
authorized person upon the premises to all places supplied with city water to
examine the apparatus, the amount used, the manner of using the water and any
leaks or wastage of water. It is unlawful for any consumer to waste by
defective valves, stops, joints or any other means, any water, or in violation
of any rules and regulations for controlling the water supply. For violation of
the provisions of this section, the water may be cut off from such premises, in
addition to the penalty hereafter provided, unless such person shall promptly
pay such additional charges or fine as may be imposed for such violation.
(Prior code § 16-4-14)
13.08.190: TAMPERING WITH WATERWORKS UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to open any stop cock, valve or other fixture
attached to the system of water supply or in anywise to injure, deface or
impair any part or any appurtenance of the waterworks, or to cast anything into
any reservoir, tank or part of such works or in any manner to pollute or
disturb the waters leading to or supplying said works. (Prior code § 16-4-15)
13.08.200: METER INSTALLATION:
The city may install meters at any place being served by the waterworks
department for the protection of the city. When meters are installed they shall
be placed either in the basement of the building or at the curb line as the
superintendent of waterworks may determine. (Prior code § 16-4-24)
13.08.210: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR EXTENSION; VIOLATION:
It is unlawful for any person to make any extension of any pipe or water
fixture attached to the waterworks system for any purpose whatever, without
first obtaining permit therefor, and any such violation shall be deemed a class
B misdemeanor. (Prior code § 16-4-26.1)
13.08.220: SERVICE PIPE ATTACHMENTS:
To each service pipe there shall be attached at the curb a stop cock, meter and
key box, which shall be under the exclusive control of the superintendent of
waterworks. (Prior code § 16-4-8)
13.08.230: PIPES; QUALITY:
All service and other pipes used underground in the waterworks system of the
city shall be under charge of the superintendent as to size, kind and quality
of pipe. (Prior code § 16-4-10)
13.08.240: STEAM BOILERS:
Steam boilers shall not be filled from the pipes direct, but shall be provided
with a tank or check valve and supplied therefrom. (Prior code § 16-4-21)
13.08.250: POSTS NEAR PIPES FORBIDDEN:
No telegraph pole, hitching or other post shall be put down or set within four
feet (4') of any water service pipe, nor within six feet (6') of any main pipe,
except upon a written permit from the superintendent. (Prior code § 16-4-22)
13.08.260: STOP AND WASTE COCK POSITION:
For each water pipe that enters a building, plumbers must supply such pipe with
a private stop and waste cock with a handle or wrench affixed thereto for the
purpose of turning the same so as to turn off the water. Such stop and waste
cock shall be placed on the pipe in an accessible position within nine inches
(9") of the wall where such pipe enters the building. All such pipes shall
enter buildings at the excavated portions thereof. (Prior code § 16-4-27)
13.08.270: DEEP WATER VALVE; OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
The deep water valve for automatic sprinklers shall be under the control of
private owner without any responsibility on the part of the city. (Prior code §
16-4-30)
13.08.280: FIRE HYDRANTS:
All hydrants shall be under the control of and shall be kept in repair by the
superintendent, and in case of fire or fires, the fire department and such
others as the mayor or city commissioners may authorize, shall have free access
to the hydrants. No unauthorized person shall open or operate any fire hydrant,
or attempt to draw water therefrom. (Prior code § 16-4-3)
13.08.290: FIRE HYDRANTS; WRENCHES:
Wrenches for fire hydrants shall be furnished by the superintendent to the fire
department and to any other person deemed proper. It is unlawful for any person
having charge of any of the wrenches to permit the same to be taken from its
place of deposit or to be used for any other purpose than that authorized by
the superintendent. (Prior code § 16-4-4)
13.08.300: TAMPERING WITH FOUNTAINS AND FIRE HYDRANTS UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to interfere or tamper with or to injure, break,
damage, destroy or to hitch any vehicle or animal to any public drinking
fountain or fire hydrant. (Prior code § 16-4-20)
ARTICLE II. WATER CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
13.08.310: FEE: (Rep. by Ord. 05-109 § 1, 2005)
13.08.320: FEE AMOUNTS: (Rep. by Ord. 05-109 § 1, 2005)
13.08.330: WATER MAIN LINES; CREDIT FOR FRONTAGE:
Any person or entity owning or controlling property fronting a main line
referred to in section
13.08.360 of this article, who has paid a portion of the cost of installing the
same shall receive appropriate credit for frontage if the person or entity
requests a hookup to the main line. (Prior code § 16-6-6)
13.08.340: WATER MAIN LINES; EXTENSIONS:
   A.   City administration may extend or allow the extension of city water
main lines under the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon the city's initiative, for its primary benefit, and entirely at
the city's expense. Also, if a proposed industry, business or other activity
will have a significant favorable impact upon the city, its economy or its
residents, and the city deems it necessary, it may induce the industry to
locate within the city by installing a water main line extension entirely at
its own expense through its budgetary process.
      2.   Upon the request of some person demonstrating a bona fide need for a
city water main line extension:
         a.   The city may require the applicant to pay the initial cost of
installation and then reimburse him to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of the
initial cost paid over a period of years not to exceed five (5).
         b.   The city may pay fifty percent (50%) of the initial cost
immediately with the applicant paying the other fifty percent (50%)
immediately.
         c.   The city may require the applicant to pay a part of or the entire
cost of the main line extension with no reimbursement provided.
   B.   It is the policy of the city that the city may extend water main lines
with the city paying fifty percent (50%) and the developer, etc., paying fifty
percent (50%) so long as such extensions can be accomplished at a moderate pace
and shall not impose undue financial burdens upon the city's budgets. Growth
and development as well as expansion of the city's utilities shall be as
uniform as possible and shall encourage gradual growth from the central
portions of the city outward and not the inverse. Therefore, in considering
whether to extend a water main line, the city administration shall consider:
      1.   The amount of costs required to install the requested extension;
      2.   The current status of the budget of the division of water and sewer
including anticipated revenues;
      3.   The city's general financial posture and its ability to absorb fifty
percent (50%) of the cost of the proposed main line extension over the
following five (5) years;
      4.   The location of the proposed extension as it relates to present
developed or undeveloped areas of the city;
      5.   The importance to the city and its residents of the development
which will utilize the proposed main line extension.
   C.   All of the aforesaid main line extensions shall be at the city's
discretion and a request of any type by any person shall not be construed to
give any person a right to extend or to have the main line extended.
   D.   Anyone requesting a water main line extension shall proceed as follows:
      1.   They shall supply the city with a map or plat of the subdivision,
commercial or industrial development or other development with sufficient
details shown thereon to determine the size of the water main line extension
required to service the development. They shall also set forth their proposal
for the manner in which the main line extension shall be financed, as well as
their requested schedule for actual installation of the main line.
      2.   If the city decides to grant in whole or in part the main line
extension request and the costs of fifty percent (50%) of the extension are
available in its budget, and funds for the other fifty percent (50%) have been
deposited with the city, then the city may proceed to extend the main line
based on a schedule for actual installation as deemed proper and appropriate by
the mayor.
      3.   If fifty percent (50%) of the costs for a proposed main line
extension request are not available in the city's budget, then the mayor may
either propose an immediate change in the budget to contemplate payment of the
costs, or the mayor may propose an agreement between the city and the applicant
wherein the applicant would pay the entire costs with the city agreeing to
reimburse the applicant to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of the initial
costs without interest over a period of years not to exceed five (5). All such
agreements must have the consent of the municipal council and are subject to
the limitations contained in article XIV, section 3 of the Utah constitution.
      4.   The cost of any water main line extension shall be determined by the
city either by the city engineer's estimate if the city does the actual
installation, or by the actual cost of doing the work, or by using the cost of
bona fide bids submitted by independent contractors for all or any part of the
work.
      5.   If, in the judgment of the city engineer, a larger diameter main
line than that required by the developer is needed for future growth and
development or for other city purposes, the developer, etc., shall install the
larger line. The city shall additionally pay that portion of the main line
extension cost attributed to the larger diameter line as required by it. (Prior
code § 16-6-3)
13.08.350: WATER MAIN LINES; INSTALLATION:
The water main lines referred to in this article, the cost of which shall be
paid fifty percent (50%) by the city and fifty percent (50%) by the developer,
are those to be installed in existing city streets after the date of the
passage of the ordinance codified in this article, and not in subdivisions,
planned unit developments or other developments where water service and hence
water main lines are required as part of the development improvements. (Prior
code § 16-6-4)
13.08.360: WATER MAIN LINES; CONNECTION:
If any person or entity desires to connect to a water main installed in an
existing street, which cost of installation has been paid in full or in part by
the city either pursuant to this article or at the city's initiative on a date
subsequent to the passage of the ordinance codified in this article, then the
person or entity desiring to connect to the main line shall pay her or his
share of the then current estimated cost of installation of main line based on
assessing all adjacent property for the same according to the amount of
frontage owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the person or party
requesting the hookup. The public works director or his or her representative
shall estimate and determine the then current cost to be paid, based on current
bids of similar projects. On main lines so installed prior to such date, no
such charge shall be made. (Ord. 92-15 § 1, 1992: prior code § 16-6-5)
13.08.370: REPORTING COMPLETION OF PLUMBING WORK:
All persons shall, within twenty four (24) hours after the completion of any
plumbing work connected with the waterworks system, report the same to the
division of sewer and water. (Prior code § 16-6-7)
ARTICLE III. CROSS CONNECTIONS
13.08.380: GENERALLY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is:
      1.   To protect the public potable water supply of the city from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within its customers'
internal distribution system(s) or its customers' private water system(s) such
contaminants or pollutants which could backflow or back siphon into the public
water supply system; and
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between its customer's in-plant potable water system(s)
and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and industrial piping systems;
and
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   B.   Responsibility: The water division manager shall be responsible for the
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to the backflow or back siphonage of contaminants or
pollutants through the water service connection. If, in the judgment of the
water division manager, an approved backflow prevention device is required, at
the city’s water service connection to any customer’s premises, for the safety
of the water system, the water division manager or the water division managers
designated agent shall give notice in writing to the customer to install such
an approved backflow prevention device and/or assembly at each service
connection to the customer’s premises. The customer shall immediately install
such approved device(s) and/or assembly(ies) at the customer’s own expense.
Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the customer to install the device
(s) and/or assembly(ies) immediately shall constitute a ground for
discontinuing water service to the premises until such device(s) and/or
assembly(ies) have been properly installed. Assembly(ies) or device(s) shall be
tested by a certified tester and approved by the water division manager prior
to use. (Prior code § 16-7-1; amd. Ord. 21-08, 5-4-2021)
13.08.390: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth in this section:
               The individual, official, board, department, or agency established and authorized
ADMINISTRATIVE by a state, county, city or other political subdivisions created by law to
AUTHORITY:     administer and enforce the provisions of the cross connection control program
               and/or the plumbing code.
               The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere between the lowest
               opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank, plumbing fixture or
               other device and the flood level rim of such vessel. An approved air gap shall be
               at least double the diameter of the supply pipe, measured vertically, above the
AIR GAP:       top of the rim of the vessel; and, in no case less than one inch (1"). When an
               air gap is used at the service connection to prevent the contamination or
               pollution of the public potable water system, an emergency bypass shall be
               installed around the air gap system and an approved reduced pressure principle
               device shall be installed in the bypass system.
APPROVED:      Accepted by the water division manager as meeting an applicable specification
               stated or cited in this article, or as suitable for the proposed use.
               Any water supply on or available to the premises other than the purveyor’s
               approved public potable water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water
AUXILIARY      from another purveyor’s public potable water supply or any natural source(s) such
WATER SUPPLY:  as a well, spring, river, stream, harbor, etc., or “used waters” or “industrial
               fluids”. These waters may be polluted or contaminated or they may be
               objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water
               purveyor does not have sanitary control.
               The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the distributing
BACK           pipes of a potable water supply system from any source other than its intended
SIPHONAGE:     source caused by the sudden reduction of pressure in the potable water supply
               system.
               The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the distributing
BACKFLOW:      pipes of a potable water supply system from any source or sources other than its
               intended source.
BACKFLOW       Any mechanical assembly installed at a water service line or at a plumbing
PREVENTION     fixture to prevent a blackflow contamination event, provided that the mechanical
ASSEMBLY:      assembly is appropriate for the identified contaminant at the cross connection
               and is an in-line field-testable assembly as approved by the plumbing code.
               Consists of a single or multiple check valves that are opened by the flow
BACKFLOW       pressure of the potable water. These valves are fabricated to seat tightly on a
PREVENTION     machine surface and, when closed, prevent any flow in the wrong direction. Some
DEVICE:        devices have air inlets or ports that are vented to the atmosphere to relieve any
               vacuum or negative pressure developed in the system.
BACKFLOW       A device, assembly or means designed to prevent backflow siphonage that is
PREVENTER:     currently approved by Logan City and current plumbing code.
               An impairment of the quality of the potable water by sewage, industrial fluids or
CONTAMINATION: waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a degree which creates an actual
               hazard to the public health through poisoning or through the spread of disease.
               Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures between two (2)
               otherwise separate piping systems one of which contains potable water and the
               other nonpotable water or industrial fluids of questionable safety, through
               which, or because of which, backflow or back siphonage may occur into the potable
               water system. A water service connection between a public potable water
CROSS          distribution system and a customer’s water distribution system which is cross
CONNECTION:    connected to a contaminated fixture, industrial fluid system or with a
               potentially contaminated supply or auxiliary water system, constitutes one type
               of cross connection. Other types of cross connections include connectors such as
               swing connections, removable sections, four-way plus valves, spools, dummy
               sections of pipe, swivel or change over devices, sliding multiport tube, solid
               connections, etc.
               The installation of an approved backflow preventer at the water service
               connection to any customer’s premises where it is physically and economically
CROSS          infeasible to find and permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential
CONNECTION     cross connections within the customer’s water system; or, it means the
CONTROL BY     installation of an approved backflow preventer on the service line leading to and
CONTAINMENT:   supplying a portion of a customer’s water system where there are actual or
               potential cross connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or controlled
               at the point of cross connection.
CROSS          A connection between a potable water system and a nonpotable water system with an
CONNECTIONS,   approved backflow preventer properly installed that will continuously afford the
CONTROLLED:    protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
               Any business or individual who purchases water from the City. This definition
CUSTOMER-USER: includes those who may use the water but are not directly responsible for the
               purchase thereof.
DEGREE OF      The term is derived from an evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
HAZARD:        the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
               An assembly of two (2) independently operating approved check valves with tightly
DOUBLE CHECK   closing shutoff valves on each side of the check valves, plus properly located
VALVE          test cocks for the testing of each check valve. The entire assembly shall meet
ASSEMBLY:      the design and performance specifications and approval of a recognized and city
               approved testing agency for backflow prevention. To be approved these assemblies
               must be readily accessible for in-line maintenance and testing.
               Any condition, device or practice in the water supply system and its operation
               which could create, or in the judgment of the water division manager may create a
HEALTH HAZARD: danger to the health and well being of the water consumer. An example of a health
               hazard is a structural defect, including cross connections, in a water supply
               system.
               Any system containing a fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
               or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
               constitute a health, system, pollutional or plumbing hazard if introduced into an
               approved water supply. This may include, but not be limited to: polluted or
               contaminated water; all types of process waters and “used waters” originating
INDUSTRIAL     from the public potable water system which may have deteriorated in sanitary
FLUIDS SYSTEM: quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating acids and alkalies; circulated cooling
               waters connected to an open cooling tower or cooling towers that are chemically
               or biologically treated or stabilized with toxic substances; contaminated natural
               waters such as from wells, springs, streams, rivers, bays, harbors, seas,
               irrigation canals or systems, etc.; oils, gases, glycerine, paraffins, caustic
               and acid solutions and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in industrial or
               other purposes or for firefighting purposes.
NONPOTABLE     Water which is not safe for human consumption or which is of questionable
WATER:         potability.
               A plumbing type cross connection in a consumer’s potable water system that has
PLUMBING       not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker, air gap separation or backflow
HAZARD:        preventer. Unprotected plumbing type cross connections are considered to be a
               health hazard.
               The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or biological) in water
               which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a hazard or impair the
POLLUTION:     usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does not create an actual
               hazard to the public health but which does adversely and unreasonably affect such
               waters for domestic use.
               An actual or potential threat to the physical properties of the water system or
POLLUTIONAL    to the potability of the public or the consumer’s potable water system but which
HAZARD:        would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could cause
               damage to the system or its appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
POTABLE WATER: Any water which, according to the Utah Administrative code R309, is safe for
               human consumption.
PUBLIC         A water system that is either publicly or privately owned, that provides water
DRINKING WATER for human consumption and other domestic uses, which: has at least 15 service
SYSTEM:        connections, and/or serves an average of at least 25 individuals per day for at
               least 60 days out of the year.
               An assembly of two (2) independently operating approved check valves with an
               automatically operating differential relief valve between the two (2) check
               valves, tightly closing shutoff valves on either side of the check valves, plus
               properly located test cocks for the testing of the check and relief valves. The
               entire assembly shall meet the design and performance specifications and approval
               of a recognized and city approved testing agency for backflow prevention
REDUCED        assemblies. The assembly shall operate to maintain the pressure in the zone
PRESSURE       between the two (2) check valves at a level less than the pressure on the public
PRINCIPLE      water supply side of the assembly . At cessation of normal flow the pressure
ASSEMBLY:      between the two (2) check valves shall be less than the pressure on the public
               water supply side of the assembly. In case of leakage of either of the check
               valves the differential relief valve shall operate to maintain the reduced
               pressure in the zone between the check valves by discharging to the atmosphere.
               When the inlet pressure is two (2) pounds per square inch or less, the relief
               valve shall open to the atmosphere. To be approved, these assemblies must be
               readily accessible for in-line maintenance and testing and be installed in a
               location where no part of the assembly will be submerged.
               An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the physical properties of the
SYSTEM HAZARD: public potable water system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
               protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
               Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public potable water system to a
USED WATER:    consumers water system after it has passed through the point of delivery and is
               no longer under the sanitary control of the water purveyor.
               The water division manager of the city is invested with the authority and
WATER DIVISION responsibility for the implementation of an effective cross connection control
MANAGER:       program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this article. The water
               division manager may delegate his/her authority and responsibility to his/her
               designated agents.
WATER          The public or private owner or responsible party of a public drinking water
PURVEYOR:      system.
               The terminal end of a service connection from the public potable water system;
               i.e., where the water purveyor loses jurisdiction and sanitary control over the
               water at its point of delivery to the customer’s water system. If a meter is
               installed at the end of the service connection, then the service connection shall
WATER SERVICE  mean the downstream end of the meter. There should be no unprotected takeoffs
CONNECTIONS:   from the service line ahead of any meter or backflow preventer located at the
               point of delivery to the customer’s water system. “Service connection” also
               includes water service connection from a fire hydrant and all other temporary or
               emergency water service connections from the public potable water system. (Prior
               code § 16-7-2; amd. Ord. 21-08, 5-4-2021)
 
13.08.400: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the
utility system and the customer system.
   B.   Utility system shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system; and shall include all those facilities of the water system
under the complete control of the utility, up to the point where the customer’s
system begins.
   C.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the distribution
system.
   D.   The distribution system shall include the network of conduits used for
the delivery of water from the source to the customer’s system.
   E.   The customer’s system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system which are utilized in
conveying utility delivered domestic water to points of use. (Prior code § 16-
7-3(a); amd. Ord. 21-08, 5-4-2021)
13.08.410: REQUIREMENTS:
Requirements for the water system of the city are as set forth in sections
13.08.420 through
13.08.490 of this article.
The City cross connection control program shall comply with the standards,
specifications, and procedures set forth in the Logan City Ordinances, Cross
Connection Control Program of Utah, Utah State Code including the plumbing code
and amendments, Utah Administrative Rules, and the latest edition of USC-FCCCHR
Manual of Cross Connection Controls. (Prior code § 16-7-3(b); amd. Ord. 21-08,
5-4-2021)
13.08.420: NO SERVICE WITH UNPROTECTED CROSS CONNECTION:
No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or maintained by
the water purveyor unless the water supply is protected as required by state
laws and regulation and this article. Service of water to any premises shall be
discontinued by the water purveyor if a backflow preventer required by this
article is not installed, tested and maintained, or if it is found that a
backflow preventer has been removed, bypassed or if an unprotected cross
connection exists on the premises. Service will not be restored until such
conditions or defects are corrected. (Prior code § 16-7-3(b)(1); amd. Ord. 21-
08, 5-4-2021)
13.08.430: SYSTEM TO BE OPEN FOR INSPECTION:
The customer’s system should be open for inspection at all reasonable times to
authorized representatives of the water division to determine whether cross
connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violations of
these regulations, exist. When such a condition becomes known, the water
division manager shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises
by providing for a physical break in the service line until the customer has
corrected the condition(s) in conformance with state and city statutes relating
to plumbing and water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior code § 16-7-3(b)(2); amd. Ord. 21-08, 5-4-2021)
13.08.440: BACKFLOW PREVENTER; CONDITIONS:
An approved backflow preventer shall also be installed on each service line to
a customer’s water system at or near the property line or immediately inside
the building being served; but, in all cases, before the first branch line
leading off the service line wherever the following conditions exist:
   A.   In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply which is not
or may not be of safe bacteriological or chemical quality and which is not or
may not be of safe bacteriological or chemical quality and which is not
acceptable as an additional source by the water division manager, the public
water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by the
owner, operator, or lessees installing a backflow prevention assembly in the
service line appropriate to the degree of hazard.
   B.   In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any other
objectionable substance is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system, the public system shall be
protected against backflow from the premises by the owner, operator, or lessees
installing a backflow prevention assembly in the service line appropriate to
the degree of hazard. This shall include the handling of process waters and
waters originating from the utility system which have been subject to
deterioration in quality.
   C.   In the case of premises having: 1) internal cross connections that
cannot be permanently corrected and controlled; or 2) intricate plumbing and
piping arrangements or where entry to all portions of the premises is not
readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it impracticable or
impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous cross connections exist, the
public water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by
the owner, operator, or lessees installing an approved reduced pressure
principle assembly in the service line. (Prior code § 16-7-3(b)(3); amd. Ord.
21-08, 5-4-2021)
13.08.450: BACKFLOW PREVENTER; TYPE:
The type of protective preventer required under section
13.08.440 of this article shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists
as follows:
   A.   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water supply as
stated in subsection
13.08.440A of this article and it is not subject to any of the following rules,
the public water system shall be protected by an approved air gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principal backflow prevention device.
   B.   In the case of any premises where there is water or substance that
would be objectionable but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double check valve assembly.
   C.   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous to
health which is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or potential
hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall be protected
by an approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principal
backflow prevention assembly. Examples of premises where these conditions will
exist include sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, chemical
manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries and plating plants.
   D.   In the case of any premises where there are “uncontrolled” cross
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention assembly at the service connection.
   E.   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements or
other prohibitions or restrictions it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete in-plant cross connection survey, the public water system shall be
protected against backflow or back siphonage from the premises by the
installation of a backflow prevention assembly in the service line. In this
case, maximum protection will be required; that is, an approved air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly shall be installed in each service to the premises. (Prior code § 16-
7-3(b)(4); amd. Ord. 21-08, 5-4-2021)
13.08.460: BACKFLOW PREVENTER; SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Any backflow prevention assembly and/or device required in this article
shall be of a model and size approved by the water division manager. “Approved
backflow prevention assembly and/or device” means a preventer that has been
manufactured in full conformance with the standards established by the American
Water Works Association entitled AWWA C506-78, standards for reduced pressure
principle and double check valve backflow prevention devices; or the IAPMO; or
the current Utah plumbing code, and have met completely the laboratory and
field performance specifications of the Foundation For Cross Connection Control
And Hydraulic Research of the University of Southern California established by
specifications of backflow prevention devices--#69-2 dated March 1969, or the
most current issue.
   B.   The AWWA and FCCC&HR standards and specifications have been adopted by
the water division manager. Final approval shall be evidenced by a certificate
of approval issued by an approved testing laboratory certifying full compliance
with the AWWA standards and FCCC&HR specifications.
   C.   The following testing laboratory has been qualified by the water
division manager to test and certify backflow preventers:
Foundation For Cross Connection Control And Hydraulic Research
University of Southern California
University Park
Los Angeles, CA 90007
   D.   Testing laboratories other than the laboratory listed in subsection C
of this section will be added to an approved list as they are qualified by the
water division manager.
   E.   Backflow preventers which may be subjected to back pressure or back
siphonage that have been fully tested and have been granted a certificate of
approval by such qualified laboratory and are listed on the laboratory’s
current list of approved assemblies and/or devices may be used without further
test or qualification. (Prior code § 16-7-3(b)(5); amd. Ord. 21-08, 5-4-2021)
13.08.470: BACKFLOW PREVENTER; INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the customer-user at any premises where backflow
prevention assemblies and/or devices are installed to have certified
inspections and operational tests made every 12 months. In those instances
where the water division manager deems the hazard to be great enough the
customer-user may be required to complete certified inspections and operational
tests at more frequent intervals. These inspections and tests shall be
completed by a certified tester at the expense of the water user. It shall be
the duty of the water division manager to see that these timely tests are made.
Under direction of the water division manager, qualified city employees who are
certified may make certified inspections and operational tests as deemed
necessary. These devices shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the
expense of the customer-user whenever such assemblies and/or devices are found
to be defective. Records of such tests, repairs and overhaul shall be kept and
made available on request to the water division manager and to the state
environmental health department.
Backflow assembly testers must be Utah State certified and have read and be
familiar with the City’s backflow prevention ordinance and standards and
procedures.
The water division manager may impose restrictions upon backflow assembly
testers for unethical testing procedures, such as falsifying testing reports,
up to and including the exclusion of testing for record within the City. In
circumstances where water service must be terminated to ensure safety due to
the failure of the backflow tester in submitting acceptable test reports, that
tester may be excluded from testing for record within the City. Testers who
routinely submit incomplete and/or inaccurate test reports, including those
submitted outside the required time limits, may be excluded for testing for
record within the City. Testers that have been excluded from testing for record
within the City may be reported to relevant State authorities. Testers who have
been excluded from testing for record with the City may appeal their exclusion
by submitting in writing their reasoning for appeal to the public works
director. (Prior code § 16-7-3(b)(6); amd. Ord. 21-08, 5-4-2021)
13.08.480: BACKFLOW PREVENTER EXEMPT WHEN:
All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies and/or devices which do
not meet the requirements of this section but were approved assemblies and/or
devices for the purposes described herein at the time of installation and which
have been properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements under section
13.08.470 of this article be excluded from the requirements of these rules so
long as the water division manager is assured that they will satisfactorily
protect the utility system. Whenever the existing assemblies and/or device is
moved from the present location or requires more than a minimum maintenance or
when the water division manager finds that the maintenance constitutes a hazard
to health, the unit shall be replaced by a backflow prevention assembly and/or
device meeting the requirements of this section. (Prior code § 16-7-3(b)(7);
amd. Ord. 21-08, 5-4-2021)
13.08.490: SPRAYING; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Commercial or private spraying or flushing units cannot be filled by
any fire hydrant or service connection such as a hose bib, unless an approved
air gap connection has been properly installed on the equipment, and a current
inspection has been completed by the water division manager.
   B.   An inspection fee will be charged to regulate and inspect commercial or
private spraying or flushing units for proper installation of air gap and
piping connection. The inspection fee will be charged for each inspection
performed each year, not to extend beyond the end of the current year. All
commercial or private sprayer or flushing units will be required to have a
current inspection to operate or fill units in the City. (Prior code § 16-7-3
(b)(8); amd. Ord. 21-08, 5-4-2021)
ARTICLE IV. ENFORCEMENT
13.08.500: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days
that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(1989 Code: prior code § 16-5-1; amd. Ord. 21-08, 5-4-2021)
13.08.510: EMERGENCY POWERS:
The city engineer and the city engineer's delegate shall have emergency powers
to immediately halt any connection or installation to the city's water system
which reasonably appears to be in violation of these ordinances or which
presents a danger to the health, safety and welfare of any persons, or which
may be in violation of any environmental standards, or which threatens to
interfere with the operation of the city water system. This power shall extend
to any user of the system, whether within the city limits or not. (Prior code §
16-5-2)
13.08.520: RECOVERY OF COSTS:
Any user of the city water system violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, or who pollutes or causes discharge into the city water system by
backflow or otherwise, or who causes damage to or impairs the city's water
system by backflow or otherwise, or who causes damage to or impairs the city's
water system shall be liable to the city for any expenses, loss or damage
caused by such violation. The city shall bill the violator for the costs
incurred by the city for any testing, analysis, cleaning, repair or replacement
work caused by the violation. If the violator refuses to pay the assessed
costs, the city attorney may enforce the charges as a civil penalty by filing a
complaint in the appropriate civil court. (Prior code § 16-5-3)
CHAPTER 13.12
SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
Article I. Application
13.12.005: General Provisions
13.12.010: Definitions
13.12.020: Application Procedures Generally
13.12.030: Fees And Services
13.12.040: Public Sewer And Connections; Maintenance And Improvement Fee
13.12.050: Rates And Charges; Revision
13.12.060: Owner Responsibilities
13.12.070: Billing
13.12.080: Required Connections
Article II. Use And Inspection
13.12.090: City Officials; Duties
13.12.100: Injuring Sewer Or Discharging Certain Substances Prohibited
13.12.110: Manhole Covers
13.12.120: Privy, Vaults And Cesspools; Notice To Abate
13.12.130: Septic Tanks; Unlawful When
13.12.140: Unpolluted Drainage Prohibited In Sanitary Sewers
13.12.150: Unpolluted Drainage To Be Discharged Where
13.12.160: Prohibited Discharges
13.12.170: Limitations
13.12.180: Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
13.12.190: Oxygen Requirement (Rep. by Ord. 17-25, 2018)
13.12.200: Modification Of Process Water Or Discharge
13.12.210: Preliminary Treatment Provided By Discharger
13.12.220: Compliance Schedule
13.12.230: Reporting Requirements For User
13.12.240: Manhole
13.12.250: Monitoring
13.12.260: Confidential Information
13.12.270: Preliminary Treatment
13.12.280: Enforcement Of Industrial Pretreatment Program
13.12.285: Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
Article III. Permits
13.12.320: Permit Required
13.12.330: Permits Not To Be Issued When
13.12.340: Industrial Use Permits
13.12.345: Regulation Of Waste Received From Other Jurisdictions
13.12.350: Domestic Waste Hauler Permits
13.12.351: Liquid Waste Hauler Permits
Article IV. Connection
13.12.360: Drain Pipes; Description
13.12.370: Connection With A "Y"
13.12.380: Trenches; How Backfilled
13.12.390: Connection Before Completion Of Sewer
13.12.400: Notice Required To Begin Work
13.12.410: Junction Pipes
13.12.420: Independent Systems
13.12.430: Inside Of Drain
13.12.440: Certificate Of Inspection
13.12.450: Cleanout
Article V. Penalty
13.12.460: Violation; Penalty
ARTICLE I. APPLICATION
13.12.005: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Policy: This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for
users of the publicly owned treatment works for the City of Logan and enables
the City of Logan to comply with all applicable State and Federal laws,
including the Clean Water Act (33 United States Code [USC] section 1251 et
seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (title 40 of the Code of Federal
Regulations [CFR] part 403). The objectives of this chapter are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation or contaminate the
resulting sludge;
      2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or the atmosphere, or otherwise be
incompatible with the publicly owned treatment works;
      3.   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      4.   To promote reuse and recycling of wastewater and sludge from the
publicly owned treatment works;
      5.   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      6.   To enable the city to comply with its Utah pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
      This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment
works. This chapter authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge
permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
   B.   Administration: Except as otherwise provided herein, the City of Logan
Environmental Department Director shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the
City of Logan Environmental Department Director may be delegated by the City of
Logan Environmental Department Director to a duly authorized city employee.
   C.   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter,
shall have the designated meanings:
BMP    Best Management Practice
BMR    Baseline monitoring report
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR    Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    Categorical industrial user
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    Gallons per day
IU     Industrial user
LCEDD  Logan City Environmental Department Director
mg/L   Milligrams per liter
NSCIU  Non-significant categorical industrial user
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIU    Significant industrial user
SNC  Significant noncompliance
TSS    Total suspended solids
UPDES  Utah pollutant discharge elimination system
USC    United States Code
 
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.010: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
ACT OR THE ACT: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 USC section 1251 et seq.
APPROVAL AUTHORITY: State of Utah Division of Water Quality or its successor
agency.
AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER:
   A.   If the user is a corporation:
      1.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
      2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating
facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions
that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the
explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations,
and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term
environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure
that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete
and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
   B.   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner
or proprietor, respectively.
   C.   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
   D.   The individuals described in subsections A through C of this
definition, may designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, and the written authorization is submitted to the city.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BMPs: Means schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to
implement the prohibitions listed in subsections
13.12.160A and B of this chapter. BMPs shall be considered the local limits and
pretreatment standards for the purposes of this chapter and section 307(d) of
the act, 40 CFR 403.5(c)(4) and R317-8-8.8. BMPs shall also include but are not
limited to, treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to
control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
drainage from raw materials storage.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD: The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), usually expressed as a
concentration (e.g., mg/L).
CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER: An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD: Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with
sections 307(b) and (c) of the act (33 USC section 1317) that apply to a
specific category of users and that appear in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N,
parts 405 - 471.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR COD: A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize all
compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
CONTROL AUTHORITY: The City of Logan.
DAILY MAXIMUM: The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a pollutant
collected during a calendar day.
DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT: The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
ENVIRONMENTAL DIRECTOR: The person designated by the city to supervise the
operation of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter. The term also means a duly authorized
representative of the environmental director.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OR EPA: The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
EXISTING SOURCE: Any source of discharge that is not a "new source".
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15)
minutes.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any waste deemed hazardous under the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA).
INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into the POTW
from any nondomestic source.
INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT: The maximum or minimum concentration of a pollutant
allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any grab
or composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the city's UPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: section 405 of the act; the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, including title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
LOCAL LIMIT: Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the city upon
industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in subsections
13.12.160A and B of this chapter. The technical based local limits have been
developed and the development documents are kept on file at the city office and
can be reviewed if requested.
MEDICAL WASTE: Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
MONTHLY AVERAGE: The sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a calendar
month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that month.
MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT: The highest allowable average of "daily discharges" over
a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured
during that month.
NEW SOURCE:
   A.   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is
(or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c)
of the act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
      1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located; or
      2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
   B.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection A2 or A3 of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
   C.   Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
      1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
         a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
         b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation,
or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary
for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or
equipment; or
         c.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
paragraph.
NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: Water used for cooling that does not come into direct
contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or finished
product.
PASS THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of
the city's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of
a violation.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any
other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This
definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental entities.
pH: A measure of the acidity or basicity of a solution, expressed in standard
units.
POLLUTANT: Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related to
pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR STANDARDS: Pretreatment standards shall mean any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the act, which applies to industrial
users, which includes but is not limit to prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS OR PROHIBITED DISCHARGES: Absolute prohibitions
against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions appear in
section
13.12.160 of this chapter.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS OR POTW: A treatment works, as defined by
section 212 of the Act (33 USC section 1292), which is owned by the city. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a
liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant. It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances if they convey
wastewater to a POTW treatment plant. The term also means the municipality as
defined in section 502(4) of the act, which has jurisdiction over the indirect
discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment works.
SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
SEWAGE: Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, etc.).
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU): Except as provided in subsections C and D of
this definition, a significant industrial user is:
   A.   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
   B.   An industrial user that:
      1.   Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or more
of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blow down wastewater);
      2.   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent (5%)
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant; or
      3.   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any
pretreatment standard or requirement.
   C.   The city may determine that an industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical industrial user rather
than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial user never
discharges more than one hundred (100) gallons per day (gpd) of total
categorical wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard)
and the following conditions are met:
      1.   The industrial user, prior to the city's finding, has consistently
complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements;
      2.   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in subsection 13.12.230M2 of this chapter, together with any
additional information necessary to support the certification statement; and
      3.   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
   D.   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection B of this
definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the City
may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received
from an industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)
(6), determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
SLUG LOAD OR SLUG DISCHARGE: Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in section
13.12.160 of this chapter. A slug discharge is any discharge of a non-routine,
episodic nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-
customary batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause
interference or pass through, or in any other way violate the POTW's
regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
STORMWATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
THE CITY: Refers to the City of Logan.
TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS OR SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
USER OR INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of indirect discharge.
WASTEWATER: Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OR TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW which
is designed to provide treatment of Municipal sewage and industrial waste.
WATER OF THE STATE: Means all streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water-courses,
waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage systems, and all other
bodies or accumulations of water, surface and underground, natural or
artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow through, or
border upon this State or any portion thereof, except that bodies of water
confined to and retained within the limits of private property, and which do
not develop into or constitute a nuisance, or a public health hazard, or a
menace to fish and wildlife, shall not be considered to be "waters of the
State" under this definition.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.020: APPLICATION PROCEDURES GENERALLY:
   Applications for a permit for a sewer connection must be made to the office
of the City Engineer by the owner of the premises or the owner's authorized
licensed plumber. Application must be made at least one day before any work is
done and, if required by the City Engineer, must be accompanied by a complete
plan showing line size, type of pipe, location of line and any other
information required. If the plan in all things shall conform to the ordinance
of the city, including effluent monitoring, and pretreatment facilities if
deemed necessary, then the application shall be granted, subject to the
provisions of this article, to any licensed plumber hired by the owner to
install the line.
(Prior Code § 14-1-1; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.030: FEES AND SERVICES:
   A.   The City Engineer shall charge such connection, inspection or other
fees for services provided by the city as set by the Municipal Council from
time to time by resolution with the approval of the mayor.
   B.   All roads capped for main line extensions shall be backfilled and
resurfaced in accordance with the city standard specifications and shall be
done at the contractor's or owner's expense.
   C.   The general policy of the city is not to extend city sewer service to
locations outside the city unless there is an emergency involving the health,
safety and welfare of persons and property, or unless to deny the service would
impose severe financial hardships and such service can be extended without
additional costs to the city.
(Prior Code § 14-1-2; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025 )
13.12.040: PUBLIC SEWER AND CONNECTIONS; MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENT FEE:
   A.   An initial schedule of charges for services rendered by the municipal
sewer system of the city are fixed as follows in this section:
      1.   Residential and domestic customers, including multiple dwelling
units, trailers and mobile homes (including individual trailers located in
mobile home parks, trailer camps or campgrounds): flat rate monthly charge of
eight dollars seventy five cents ($8.75) per month for each living unit, plus
$0.175 per one thousand (1,000) gallons, after an initial allowance of three
thousand (3,000) gallons per month (nonaccumulative). Nonmetered residential
will be charged a flat rate of eight dollars seventy five cents ($8.75) per
unit monthly.
      2.   Commercial and industrial customers: minimum charge of nine dollars
fifteen cents ($9.15) per month plus $0.175 per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
Nonmetered commercial and industrial customers will be charged a flat rate of
nine dollars fifteen cents ($9.15) per unit monthly.
      3.   Public elementary and high schools, churches, boarding houses,
fraternity and sorority houses, shall be charged a minimum monthly charge of
nine dollars fifteen cents ($9.15) per month plus $0.175 per one thousand
(1,000) gallons.
      4.   Any or all of the above rates, and rates for regulated industries,
may be amended by resolution in rate schedules which may be promulgated by
resolution of the municipal council of the city, with approval of the mayor.
Copies of such rate schedules shall be maintained at all times in the office of
the city recorder and shall at all times during normal office hours be
available for inspection by the public.
      5.   Any commercial customer required to be connected to the sewer that
uses water from a private well shall have a water meter installed to measure
water consumption from the well and this consumption shall be used to compute
the sewage rate.
      6.   For those sewer services having abnormal use requirements, the
director of public works shall set fees based upon the director of public
work's estimate of sewer use by said customer.
      7.   Any residence that has a home industry or home occupation located
there shall be classified as a commercial customer and shall pay the commercial
rate.
      8.   Where sewer rates are set by or refer to consumption, then water
meter measurement shall be used to determine the consumption to compute the
sewer rates.
   B.   Units not classified in subsection A of this section will have rates
set consistent with the above rates and proportionate to the service rendered
after recommendation by the city engineer and fixed by the mayor.
   C.   In cases where the nature of the sewage from any commercial or
industrial plant, building or premises is such that it imposes an unreasonable
burden upon the system, an additional charge shall be made therefor or the
mayor may, if it is advisable, compel such plant, building or premises to treat
such sewage in such manner as shall be specified by the mayor before
discharging such sewage into the system.
(Ord. 92-74 § 1,1992: Ord. 92-69 § 1,1992: Ord. 91-51 § 1,1991: Ord. 89-44 §
2,1989: prior code § 14-1-3; Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.050: RATES AND CHARGES; REVISION:
   The schedule of rates and charges set out in section
13.12.040 of this article shall be subject to such revisions and changes as may
be necessary to be made from time to time in order to comply with all
requirements of the proceedings, resolutions and ordinances authorizing the
issuance of any obligations of the city payable from the income and revenues of
the municipal sewer system which may be at any time and from time to time
outstanding; and the municipal council reserves the right to establish such
rates in the future which it considers fair and equitable in order to cover
circumstances and situations not specifically included in section
13.12.040 of this article. Such changes may be made by resolution.
(Ord. 92-69 § 2,1992: prior code § 14-1-4; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.060: OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES:
   Application for service from the municipal sewer system of the city to any
premises shall be made by the owner desiring such service, or the owner's duly
authorized agent. When an application for service from the municipal sewer
system of the city shall be made by a tenant or the owner of any premises or
property, as a condition of the granting of the application, the owner or the
owner's duly authorized agent shall thereby agree in consideration of the
granting of such application by the city that such owner will pay for all
services furnished to such tenant or any occupant of the premises named in the
application. In the event any such tenant or occupant shall fail to pay for
such services according to the terms and provisions of this article, the owner
of the property shall be liable and responsible for such services.
(Prior code § 14-1-5; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.070: BILLING:
   Billing for sewer service shall be consolidated with billing submitted for
water service to those persons who are liable for the payment of charges for
both such services. Bills for sewer service and such consolidated bills shall
be mailed at intervals as may be determined by the mayor, according to the
rates provided for in this article, or in effect from time to time. Each such
consolidated bill shall be paid in full as a unit and payment of one portion
thereof shall not be permitted without payment of the remainder. In the event
that any such bill is not paid within thirty (30) days after the mailing of
such bill to the customer, such bill shall be deemed delinquent. After ten (10)
days' written notice, all water and sewer service to the premises concerned
shall be immediately cut off.
(Prior code § 14-1-6; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.080: REQUIRED CONNECTIONS:
   All persons owning or occupying buildings within two hundred feet (200') of
an existing sewer shall be billed regardless of whether or not they have made a
connection to the sewer system.
(Prior code § 14-1-7; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
ARTICLE II. USE AND INSPECTION
13.13.090: CITY OFFICIALS; DUTIES:
   A.   Manager: The manager of the division of sewer and water shall be
responsible for the proper care and operation of the public collection system.
   B.   Building Inspector: It shall be the duty of the building inspector to
inspect the sewer connections and building drains and plumbing.
(Prior code § 14-2-1; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.100: INJURING SEWER OR DISCHARGING CERTAIN SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED:
   It is unlawful for any person to injure, break or remove any part or portion
of any sewer or of any sewer appliance or appurtenance, or to discharge into a
sewer any mud or dirt or any flammable gas, gasoline, oil or grease of any kind
from automobiles, or any calcium carbide or residue therefrom, or any liquid or
other material or substance which will evolve an inflammable gas when in
contact with water, sewage or fire.
(Prior code § 14-2- 2; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.110: MANHOLE COVERS:
   It is unlawful for any person to open any sewer manhole, or in any way
interfere with the same, without permission from the manager of the division of
sewer and water.
(Prior code § 14-2-3; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.120: PRIVY, VAULTS AND CESSPOOLS; NOTICE TO ABATE:
   It is unlawful for any owner, agent or occupant of property abutting the
sewer system embraced within the limits of any sewer district of the city, to
refuse, fail or neglect for a period of twenty (20) days after notice from the
board of health of this city to discontinue use of, disinfect and fill up all
privy vaults and cesspools on such property, or neglect or refuse for such
period after such notice to remove the seat or seats from all outside closets
on such property, or to neglect or refuse for such period after such notice to
make proper connection with the sewer system abutting such property.
(Prior code § 14-2-4; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.130: SEPTIC TANKS; UNLAWFUL WHEN:
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner or other person having charge of or
occupying any property upon which a building shall have been or is being
constructed for residential, commercial or industrial use, any part of which
building is within two hundred feet (200') of any street, alley or way in which
a public sewer is then in existence and used in the city, to construct or
permit to be constructed or to use, or to permit to be used, any privy vault,
septic tank or cesspool connected with such building. Each owner or other
person shall, within sixty (60) days after having been given notice by the city
that an accepted public sewer is ready to receive connections, cause such
building to be connected with the sewer (except that if such building shall
have a period of two (2) years in which to connect it with such public sewer)
and it shall thereafter be unlawful for such owner or other person to have the
plumbing in such building remain unconnected to the public sewer or to maintain
or use or cause to permit to exist any privy vault, septic tank or cesspool to
which the building is connected or which is used by the occupant thereof.
Whenever an accepted public sewer is available to receive connections
therewith, the manager of the system shall cause appropriate notice to be
served upon the owner, agent or other person having charge of or occupying all
property coming within scope of this section, that the public sewer is ready to
receive connections therewith and then all plumbing must be connected with such
sewer.
   B.   Whenever the owner, agent or other person having charge of or occupying
any property coming within the scope of this section has been properly notified
to make connection with an available public sewer and has not made or caused to
be made such connection, or when such connection has been made but the
connection charge therefor has not been paid, any water and sewer service to
such premises shall immediately be discontinued.
(Prior code § 14-2-5; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.140: UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE PROHIBITED IN SANITARY SEWERS:
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Prior code § 14-2-6; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.150: UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE TO BE DISCHARGED WHERE:
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to
a natural outlet approved by the city engineer. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to the sewer, to a storm sewer, or
natural outlet if a UPDES permit is issued by Utah Department of Water Quality.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025 )
13.12.160: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   Prohibited discharge standards:
   A.   General Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or
interference. These general prohibitions and the specific prohibitions in
subsection B of this section apply to all users of the POTW whether or not they
are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, state,
or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   B.   Specific Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      2.   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0;
      3.   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case discharges with a pH of more than 10.5;
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
      5.   Solids shall not be discharged that are greater than two inch(es)
(2") or five centimeter(s) (5 cm) in any dimension;
      6.   Any pollutant, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will cause interference with the POTW;
      7.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds forty degrees Celsius (40°C)
(104°F) unless the approval authority, upon request of the POTW, approves
alternate temperature limits;
      8.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      9.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      10.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Environmental Director in accordance with section
13.12.350 of this chapter;
      11.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      12.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating city's UPDES permit;
      13.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      14.   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the LCEDD;
      15.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      16.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by LCEDD in an
individual wastewater discharge permit;
      17.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant's effluent to fail toxicity test;
      18.   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which that
might cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      19.   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/L) or as
indicated in the individual discharge permit;
      Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the POTW.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025.)
13.12.170: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards:
      1.   National categorical pretreatment standards specifying quantities or
concentrations of pollutants or pollutant properties which may be discharged to
a POTW by existing or new industrial users in specific industrial subcategories
have been established by EPA in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405-471
and are hereby incorporated.
      2.   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found
at 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405-471.
      3.   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
environmental director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in
accordance with subsections A6 and A7 of this section.
      4.   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the environmental
director may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as
mass of pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
      5.   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the environmental
director shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      6.   When a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may request that the city
convert the limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert
concentration limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the
environmental director. The city may establish equivalent mass limits only if
the industrial user meets all the conditions set forth in subsections A6a(l)
through A6a(5) of this section.
         a.   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the industrial user
must:
            (1)   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water
conservation methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use
during the term of its individual wastewater discharge permit;
            (2)   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable categorical pretreatment standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
            (3)   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility's
actual average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility's long-term
average production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-
term average production rate must be representative of current operating
conditions;
            (4)   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant
levels that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not
appropriate to control the discharge; and
            (5)   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards during the period prior to the industrial user's request
for equivalent mass limits.
         b.   An industrial user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
            (1)   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
            (2)   Continue to record the facility's flow rates through the use
of a continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
            (3)   Continue to record the facility's production rates and notify
the environmental director whenever production rates are expected to vary by
more than twenty percent (20%) from its baseline production rates determined in
subsection A6a(3) of this section. Upon notification of a revised production
rate, the environmental director will reassess the equivalent mass limit and
revise the limit as necessary to reflect changed conditions at the facility;
and
            (4)   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to subsection A6a(l) of
this section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
         c.   When developing equivalent mass limits, the environmental
director:
            (1)   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the industrial
user by the concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standard for
the applicable categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
            (2)   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess
the equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
            (3)   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual wastewater permit terms if the industrial user's actual average
daily flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of water
conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow rates
used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not based on
the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to section
13.12.200 of this article. The industrial user must also be in compliance with
subsection
13.12.285C of this article regarding the prohibition of bypass.
      7.   The environmental director may convert the mass limits of the
categorical pretreatment standards of 40 CFR parts 414, 419, and 455 to
concentration limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to
individual industrial users. The conversion is at the discretion of the
environmental director.
      8.   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with
the equivalent limitations developed in this section in lieu of the promulgated
categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were derived.
      9.   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four (4) day average, limitations.
Where such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure
shall be used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent
limitation.
      10.   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating
equivalent mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based
standard shall notify the environmental director within two (2) business days
after the user has a reasonable basis to know that the production level will
significantly change within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the
environmental director of such anticipated change will be required to meet the
mass or concentration limits in its permit that were based on the original
estimate of the long term average production rate.
   B.   State Pretreatment Standards: Users must comply with State of Utah
Administrative Code codified at R317 8-8.
   C.   City's Right Of Revision: The city reserves the right to establish, by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits, more stringent
standards or requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose
of this chapter. In addition, the environmental director is authorized to
temporarily or permanently revoke or suspend issuance of any type of permit at
any time in order to protect the POTW from pass through or interference in
order to maintain compliance with any UPDES permit requirement or pretreatment
program requirement. The director shall also have the right to deny new or
increased contributions or to set additional conditions on such contributions
to protect the POTW, including limits that may be more stringent than the
limits set in local limits below.
   D.   Local Limits:
      1.   The environmental director is authorized to establish local limits
pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5(c). The development documents are kept at the city
environmental center office and can be reviewed if requested.
      2.   No person shall discharge wastewater containing pollutants in excess
of the specific local limit as established by the city from time to time. The
local limits are developed and implemented per the requirements of 40 CFR 403.
The development documents can be found at the city environmental center office.
      3.   Local limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for total metal
unless indicated otherwise. The environmental director may impose mass
limitations in addition to the concentration based limitations above.
      4.   The environmental director may develop best management practices
(BMPs), by ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits to implement
local limits and the requirements of section
13.12.160 of this article.
   E.   Surcharges: Surcharges are additional charges to recover the cost to
treat wastewaters that are typically assessed when discharge concentrations are
above defined values (650 mg/L for BOD and/or TSS), typically above domestic
wastewater. Enforceable local limits for conventional pollutants are
established where there is potential for these pollutants to be discharged to
the POTW in quantities or concentrations that could exceed the POTW's plant
capacity. When IUs discharge in excess of a local limit, they are subject to
enforcement actions.
(Ord. 17-25,2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.180: GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the environmental director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
environmental director and shall be so located to be easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and
repaired in accordance with the city's pretreatment policy by the user, at
their expense.
   B.   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   C.   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at the owner's expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.190: OXYGEN REQUIREMENT:
(Rep. by Ord. 17-25, 2018)
13.12.200: MODIFICATION OF PROCESS WATER OR DISCHARGE:
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.210: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT PROVIDED BY DISCHARGER:
   A.   Pretreatment Facilities: Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out
in section
13.12.160 of this article within the time limitations specified by EPA, the
State, or the environmental director, whichever is more stringent. Any
facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained
at the user's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the environmental director for review, and
shall be acceptable to the environmental director before such facilities are
constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the city under the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.220: COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
activities will be required to comply with this article or pretreatment
standards, the user shall provide a declaration of the shortest schedule by
which the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or implementation
of additional operational and maintenance activities. The completion date in
this schedule shall not be later than the completion date established for the
applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in subsections B through E of this
section;
   B.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates for
the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   C.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months;
   D.   The user shall submit a progress report to the environmental director
no later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the
final date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied
with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate,
the steps being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   E.   In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports to the environmental director.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.230: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR USER:
   A.   Compliance Report Date: Within ninety (90) days following the date for
final compliance with applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the
case of a new source following commencement of the introduction of wastewater
into the POTW, any user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements
shall submit to the environmental director a report containing the information
described in subsections F1 through F5 of this section. For users subject to
equivalent mass or concentration limits established in accordance with the
procedures in section
13.12.170 of this article, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of
the user's long-term production rate. For all other users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant
discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report
shall include the user's actual production during the appropriate sampling
period. All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
subsection M1 of this section. All sampling will be done in conformance with
subsection D of this section.
   B.   Periodic Compliance Reports:
      1.   Except as specified in subsection B3 of this section, all permitted
significant industrial users must, at a frequency determined by the
environmental director submit no less than twice per year on dates specified in
the permit or as required by the city, reports indicating the nature,
concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment
standards and the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the
reporting period. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance
with a best management practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the
user must submit documentation required by the environmental director or the
pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
      2.   The city may authorize an industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a
categorical pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user. This authorization is subject to the
following conditions:
         a.   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to
be present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility
provided that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable
categorical standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
         b.   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five (5) years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit. See subsection
13.12.340D1h of this chapter.
         c.   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility's
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
         d.   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with the definition of authorized or duly authorized representative of the
user, in section
13.12.010 of this chapter, and include the certification statement in
subsection M1 of this section.
         e.   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 CFR part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis.
         f.   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the environmental director
must be included as a condition in the user's permit. The reasons supporting
the waiver and any information submitted by the user in its request for the
waiver must be maintained by the environmental director for three (3) years
after expiration of the waiver.
         g.   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the user's
permit by the environmental director, the industrial user must certify on each
report with the statement in subsection M3 of this section, that there has been
no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of the
industrial user.
         h.   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user's operations,
the user must immediately: comply with the monitoring requirements of
subsection B1 of this section, or other more frequent monitoring requirements
imposed by the environmental director, and notify the environmental director.
         i.   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
      3.   The city may reduce the requirement for periodic compliance reports
to a requirement to report no less frequently than once a year, unless required
more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the EPA or State of Utah,
where the industrial user's total categorical wastewater flow does not exceed
any of the following:
         a.   Zero point zero one (0.01) percent of the POTW's design dry-
weather hydraulic capacity of the POTW, or five thousand (5,000) gallons per
day, whichever is smaller, as measured by a continuous effluent flow monitoring
device unless the industrial user discharges in batches.
         b.   Zero point zero one (0.01) percent of the design dry-weather
organic treatment capacity of the POTW; and
         c.   Zero point zero one (0.01) percent of the maximum allowable
headworks loading for any pollutant regulated by the applicable categorical
pretreatment standard for which approved local limits were developed in
accordance with subsection
13.12.170D of this article.
      Reduced reporting is not available to industrial users that have in the
last two (2) years been in significant noncompliance, as defined in subsection
13.12.250C of this article. In addition, reduced reporting is not available to
an industrial user with daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant
levels that vary so significantly that, in the opinion of the environmental
director, decreasing the reporting requirement for this industrial user would
result in data that are not representative of conditions occurring during the
reporting period.
      4.   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with subsection M1 of this section.
      5.   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      6.   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the environmental director, using the procedures
prescribed in subsection D of this section, the results of this monitoring
shall be included in the report.
      7.   Users that send electronic (digital) documents to the city to
satisfy the requirements of this section must satisfy the requirement specified
in 40 CFR part 3 for electronic reporting.
   C.   Analytical Requirements:
      1.   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be
submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit application, report, permit
or other requirement of this chapter shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques prescribed in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
CFR part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, or where the EPA determines that the part 136 sampling
and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question,
sampling and analyses shall be performed by using validated analytical methods
or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including
procedures suggested by the environmental director or other parties approved by
EPA.
      2.   All laboratory samples collected for this chapter shall be analyzed
by a laboratory that is either certified by the Utah Bureau of Laboratory
Improvements or approved by the environmental director.
   D.   Sample Collection: Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements
must be based on data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis
performed during the period covered by the report, based on data that is
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
      1.   Except as indicated in subsections D2 and D3 of this section, the
user must collect wastewater samples using twenty-four (24) hour flow-
proportional composite sampling techniques, unless time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the environmental director. Where
time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the
city, the samples must be representative of the discharge. Using protocols
(including appropriate preservation) specified in 40 CFR part 136 and
appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected during a twenty-four
(24) hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as follows: for
cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited in the
laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease, the
samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other
parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in approved
EPA methodologies may be authorized by the city, as appropriate. In addition,
grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous limits.
      2.   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
      3.   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and ninety
(90) day compliance reports required in subsections A and F of this section, a
minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols,
oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which
historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which historical
sampling data are available, the environmental director may authorize a lower
minimum. For the reports required by subsection B of this section, the
industrial user is required to collect the number of grab samples necessary to
assess and assure compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   E.   Notification Of The Discharge Of Hazardous Waste:
      1.   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA regional waste management division director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than one
hundred kilograms (100 kg) of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during
that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months.
All notifications must take place no later than one hundred eighty (180) days
after the discharge commences. Any notification under this paragraph need be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications
of changed conditions must be submitted under subsection G of this section. The
notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already
reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment standards under the self-
monitoring requirements of subsections A, B, and F of this section.
      2.   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of subsection E1 of
this section, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than
fifteen kilograms (15 kg) of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of
more than fifteen kilograms (15 kg) of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar
month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR
261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one (1) time notification. Subsequent
months during which the user discharges more than such quantities of any
hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
      3.   In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
environmental director, the EPA regional waste management waste division
director, and state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such
substance within ninety (90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
      4.   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      5.   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
   F.   Baseline Monitoring Reports: Within either one hundred eighty (180)
days after the effective day of the categorical pretreatment standard, or the
final administrative decision on a category determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)
(4), whichever is later, existing categorical industrial users currently
discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit to the
environmental director a report which contains the information listed below. At
least ninety (90) days prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources,
and sources that become categorical industrial users subsequent to the
promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
environmental director a report which contains the information outlined in
subsections (F)(1) through (F)(5). A new source shall report the method of
pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new
source shall also give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of
pollutants to be discharged.
      1.   All information required in subsections
13.12.340D1a, D1b, D1e, D1f, and D1g(1) through D1g(4) of this chapter.
      2.   Measurement of pollutants.
         a.   The user shall take a minimum of one (1) representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
         b.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards. Where an
alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with 40
CFR 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be submitted
to the control authority;
         c.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
subsections C and D of this section;
         d.   The environmental director may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures; and
         e.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      3.   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative as defined in section
13.12.010 of this chapter and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      4.   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required for the user to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule
by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be
provided. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A
compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out
in section
13.12.220 of this article.
      5.   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with subsection M1 of this section and signed
by an authorized representative as defined in section 13.12.010 of this
chapter.
   G.   Reports Of Changed Conditions: Each user must notify the environmental
director of any significant changes to the user's operations or system which
might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least ten (10)
days before the change, including changes that may affect slug discharges to
the POTW.
      1.   The environmental director may require the user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under
subsection
13.12.340D of this chapter.
      2.   The environmental director may issue an individual wastewater
discharge permit under subsection 13.12.340M of this chapter or modify an
existing wastewater discharge permit under subsection
13.12.340J of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated
changed conditions.
      3.   The environmental director may approve, deny or conditionally
approve the change based on the affects the change may have on the POTW and/or
the pretreatment program.
   H.   Reports Of Potential Problems:
      1.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the environmental director of the incident. This notification shall
include the location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume,
if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
      2.   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the user shall,
unless waived by the environmental director, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve
the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be
incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of
any fines, penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this
chapter.
      3.   If considered necessary by the environmental director, a notice
shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or other prominent
place advising employees who to call in the event of a discharge described in
subsection Hl of this section. Employers shall ensure that all employees, who
could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
      4.   Significant industrial users are required to notify the
environmental director immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the
potential for a slug discharge.
   I.   Reports From Unpermitted Users: All users not required to obtain an
individual wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the
environmental director as the environmental director may require.
   J.   Notice Of Violation/Repeat Sampling And Reporting: If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the
environmental director within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the environmental director within thirty (30)
days after becoming aware of the violation. Resampling by the industrial user
is not required if the city performs sampling at the user's facility at least
once a month, or if the city performs sampling at the user's facility between
the time when the initial sampling was conducted and the time when the user or
the city receives the results of this sampling, or if the city has performed
the sampling and analysis in lieu of the industrial user. If the city performs
the sampling and analysis and a violation occurs, in lieu of the user
performing the sampling and analysis, then the city will perform the repeat
sampling and analysis unless it notifies the user of the violation and requires
the user to perform the repeat sampling and analysis.
   K.   Date Of Receipt Of Reports: Written reports will be deemed to have been
submitted on the date postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed, postage
prepaid, into a mail facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the
date of receipt of the report shall govern.
   L.   Recordkeeping: Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this chapter, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements,
and documentation associated with best management practices established under
subsection
13.12.170D4 of this article. Records shall include the date, exact place,
method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples;
the dates analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical
techniques or methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records
shall remain available for a period of at least three (3) years. This period
shall be automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning
the user or the city, or where the user has been specifically notified of a
longer retention period by the environmental director.
   M.   Certification Statements:
      1.   Certification Of Permit Applications, User Reports And Initial
Monitoring Waiver: The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with
subsection
13.12.340E of this chapter; users submitting baseline monitoring reports under
subsection F of this section; users submitting reports on compliance with the
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines under subsection A of this section;
users submitting periodic compliance reports required by subsections Bl through
B4 of this section, and users submitting an initial request to forego sampling
of a pollutant on the basis of subsection B2d of this section. The following
certification statement must be signed by an authorized representative as
defined in section
13.12.010 of this chapter:
         I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
      2.   Annual Certification For Non-Significant Categorical Industrial
Users: A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by the environmental director pursuant to subsection C of the definition
of significant industrial user (SIU) in section
13.12.010 and subsection
13.12.340E3 of this chapter must annually submit the following certification
statement signed in accordance with the signatory requirements in the
definition of authorized or duly authorized representative of the user in
section
13.12.010 of this chapter. This certification must accompany an alternative
report required by the environmental director:
         Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the categorical pretreatment standards under 40
CFR      , I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during
the period from           ,          to ,          (months, days, year):
         (a)   The facility described as          (facility name) met the
definition of a nonsignificant categorical industrial user as described in
Logan municipal code section
13.12.010;
         (b)   The facility complied with all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements during this reporting period; and
         (c)   The facility never discharged more than one hundred (100)
gallons of total categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting
period.
         The facility during the reporting period never discharged untreated
concentrated wastewater.
         This compliance certification is based on the following information.
                                                                   
                                                                                                                 
      3.   Certification Of Pollutants Not Present: Users that have an approved
monitoring waiver based on subsection B2 of this section must certify on each
report with the following statement that there has been no increase in the
pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of the user.
         Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the pretreatment standard for 40 CFR         (specify
applicable national pretreatment standard part(s)), I certify that, to the best
of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level
of          (list pollutant(s)) in the wastewaters due to the activities at the
facility since filing of the last periodic report under subsection
13.12.230(B)(1) of the Logan municipal code.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.240: MANHOLE:
   When required by the city environmental director, the owner or occupier of
any property or building served by a sewer carrying industrial wastes which, in
the opinion of the city, needs to be monitored to assure compliance with this
title, shall install a suitable control manhole in the sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessible at all times. If located in a parking area
parking shall not be allowed on the sampling manhole.
(Ord. 17-25,2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.250: MONITORING:
   A.   Right Of Entry; Inspection And Sampling: The environmental director
shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the
user is complying with all requirements of this chapter and any individual
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the
environmental director access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and/or the performance
of any additional duties. Monitoring and inspections shall be conducted at a
frequency as determined by the city and may be announced or unannounced.
      1.   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the environmental director shall be permitted to
enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      2.   The environmental director shall have the right to set up on the
user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
      3.   The environmental director may require the user to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the user at its own expense. All devices used to measure
wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated annually to ensure their
accuracy.
      4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the environmental director and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the environmental director access to
the user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
      6.   The city may use a camera to photograph areas of the facility as
necessary for carrying out the duties of the industrial pretreatment program
including, but not limited to, documentation of the user's compliance status
and for reinforcement of written reports.
   B.   Search Warrants: If the environmental director has been refused access
to a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the city designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, the environmental director
may seek issuance of a search warrant from the first district court of the
State of Utah.
   C.   Publication Of Users In Significant Noncompliance: The environmental
director shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general circulation that
provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions served by the POTW,
a list of the users which, at any time during the previous twelve (12) months,
were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. The term significant noncompliance shall be applicable to all
significant industrial users (or any other industrial user that violates
subsection C3, C4 or C8 of this section) and shall mean:
      1.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including
instantaneous limits as defined in sections
13.12.170 and
13.12.160 of this article;
      2.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
the same pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds
the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by sections
13.12.170 and
13.12.160 of this article multiplied by the applicable TRC criteria (TRC = 1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and TRC = 1.2 for all other pollutants
except pH);
      3.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by sections
13.12.170 and
13.12.160 of this article (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous
limit, or narrative standard) that the environmental director determines has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
      4.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the environmental
director exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
      5.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge
permit or enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction,
or attaining final compliance;
      6.   Failure to provide within forty five (45) days after the due date,
any required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on
compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-
monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      7.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      8.   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the environmental director determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.260: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from the environmental director's inspection and
sampling activities, shall be available to the public without restriction,
unless the user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the environmental director, that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such
request must be asserted at the time of submission of the information or data.
When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such
information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which might
disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon request
to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment
program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as
defined at 40 CFR 2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and
shall be available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.270: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT:
   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation, by the owner or discharger at her or his own expense.
(Prior Code § 14-2-20; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.280: ENFORCEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT PROGRAM:
   A.   Notification Of Violation: When the environmental director finds that a
user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the environmental director may serve upon
that user a written notice of violation. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt
of such notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted by the user to the environmental director. Submission of such a
plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring
before or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section
shall limit the authority of the environmental director to take any action,
including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first
issuing a notice of violation.
   B.   Consent Orders: The environmental director may enter into consent
orders, assurances of compliance, or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents shall
include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance
within a time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the
same force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to
subsections D and E of this section and shall be judicially enforceable.
   C.   Show Cause Hearing: The environmental director may order a user which
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the environmental
director and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the
meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a
request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by certified
mail (return receipt requested] at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user as
defined in section
13.12.010 of this chapter and required by subsection
13.12.340E1 of this chapter. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against,
or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   D.   Compliance Orders: When the environmental director finds that a user
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the environmental director may issue an
order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come
into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into
compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are
installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other
requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring
and management practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants
discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for
compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a
compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any
continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   E.   Cease And Desist Orders: When the environmental director finds that a
user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the user's past violations are
likely to recur, the environmental director may issue an order to the user
directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      1.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      2.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
   F.   Administrative Fines:
      1.   When the environmental director finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the environmental director may fine such user in an amount not
to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Such fines shall be assessed on a
per-violation, per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average
discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of
violation.
      2.   When the environmental director finds that a user has had multiple
violations over a given time period, such that they are considered a "chronic
violator" or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the environmental director may fine such
user up to (as permitted by Utah administrative code 317-1-8 & Utah code ann.
§19-5-115) ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per day for violations of this
section and up to twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) per day for willful
violations. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits,
fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
      3.   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after thirty (30)
calendar days, be assessed an additional penalty of up to fifty percent (50%)
of the unpaid balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate often
percent (10%) per month. A lien against the user's property shall be sought for
unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
      4.   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the environmental director to reconsider the fine along with full payment of
the fine amount within thirty (30) days of being notified of the fine. Where a
request has merit, the environmental director may convene a hearing on the
matter. In the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment together with
any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The environmental
director may add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions,
such as notices and orders, to the fine.
      5.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   G.   Suspensions: The environmental director may immediately suspend a
user's discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension
is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably
appears to present, or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons. The environmental director may also immediately
suspend a user's discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that
threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or
may present, an endangerment to the environment.
      1.   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the environmental
director may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance
of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its
receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The environmental
director may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the environmental director that the period
of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in subsection H
of this section are initiated against the user.
      2.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the environmental director prior to the date
of any show cause or termination hearing under subsection C or H of this
section.
      Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior
to any emergency suspension under this section.
   H.   Termination Of Discharge: In addition to the provisions in subsection
13.12.340L of this chapter, any user who violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
      1.   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      2.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      3.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      4.   Refusal of access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      5.   Violation of the pretreatment standards in sections
13.12.170 and
13.12.160 of this article.
      Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge
and be offered an opportunity to show cause under subsection C of this section
why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the
environmental director shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
   I.   Injunctive Relief: When the environmental director finds that a user
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the environmental director may petition
the first district court through the city's attorney for the issuance of a
temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, or
other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The
environmental director may also seek such other action as is appropriate for
legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   J.   Civil Penalties:
      1.   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the city for a maximum civil penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
violation, per day. In the case of a monthly or other long-term average
discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the
violation.
      2.   The environmental director may recover reasonable attorneys' fees,
court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages
incurred by the city.
      3.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      4.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   K.   Criminal Prosecution:
      1.   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not
more than six (6) months, or both.
      2.   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into
the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of
at least twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), or be subject to
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or both. This penalty shall be
in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage
available under state law.
      3.   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of
not more than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per violation, per day,
or imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or both.
      4.   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per violation,
per day, or imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or both.
   L.   Remedies Nonexclusive: The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The environmental director may take any, all, or any combination
of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment
violations will generally be in accordance with the city's enforcement response
plan. However, the city may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the environmental director is empowered to take
more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.285: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Upset:
      1.   For the purposes of this section, upset means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
      2.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of subsection A3 of this section, are met.
      3.   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         a.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         b.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         c.   The user has submitted the following information to the
environmental director within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
upset, if this information is provided orally, a written submission must be
provided within five (5) days:
            (1)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            (2)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            (3)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      4.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset has the burden of proof.
      5.   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      6.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   B.   Prohibited Discharge Standards: A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibitions in subsection 13.12.160A of this article or the specific
prohibitions in subsections
13.12.160B3 through B9 and B11 through B19 of this article if it can prove that
it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference and that either:
      1.   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      2.   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the city was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   C.   Bypass:
      1.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
 
BYPASS:                 Means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from
                        any portion of a user's treatment facility.
                        Means substantial physical damage to property, damage
                        to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
                        inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of
SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: natural resources which can reasonably be expected to
                        occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
                        damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in
                        production.
 
      2.   Exemption: A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of subsections C3 and C4 of this section.
      3.   Bypass Notifications:
         a.   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the environmental director, at least ten (10) days
before the date of the bypass, if possible.
         b.   A user shall submit oral notice to the environmental director of
an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within
twenty-four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time the user
becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description
of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates
and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it
is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The environmental director may waive the
written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received
within twenty-four (24) hours.
      4.   Bypass Prohibited:
         a.   Bypass is prohibited, and environmental director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            (1)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as
the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            (3)   The user submitted notices as required under subsection C3 of
this section.
         b.   The environmental director may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the environmental director determines
that it will meet the conditions listed in subsection C4a of this section.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
ARTICLE III. PERMITS
13.12.320: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   It is unlawful for any person to connect or to carry on the work of laying,
repairing, altering or connecting any sewer pipe with the public sewer without
first having a permit to do so from the city engineer or inspector. Such permit
must be on the grounds during the whole time the work is in progress and must
be exhibited to any city official demanding to see it.
(Prior Code § 14-3-1; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.330: PERMITS NOT TO BE ISSUED WHEN:
   Permits to connect with the public sewer must not be issued unless the
plumbing in the house or building to be connected is in accordance with the
ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code § 14-3-2; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.340: INDUSTRIAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit:
      1.   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first completing a BMR and if required obtaining an individual
wastewater discharge permit from the environmental director except that a
significant industrial user that has filed a timely application pursuant to
subsection N of this section may continue to discharge for the time period
specified therein.
      2.   The environmental director may require other users to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes
of this chapter.
      3.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual
wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in section
13.12.280 of this chapter. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and
state pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state, and local law.
   B.   Wastewater Analysis: When requested by the environmental director, a
user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of its
wastewater within ten (10) days of the request. The environmental director is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
users to update this information. If the user changes or adds a process the
user is required to update the information provided to the environmental
director thirty (30) days prior to the process being changed or added.
   C.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permitting; New Connections: Any user
required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to
the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
individual wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with subsection D of this
section, must be filed at least ninety (90) days prior to the date upon which
any discharge will begin or recommence.
   D.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Application Contents:
      1.   All users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge
permit must submit a permit application. All permittees that will be continuing
to discharge are required to complete a re-application thirty (30) days prior
to the permit expiring. The environmental director may require users to submit
all or some of the following information as part of a permit application:
         a.   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner. Contact information for the
authorized representative and the duly authorized representative for the
facility. A description of activities, facilities, and plant production
processes on the premises.
         b.   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         c.   Description of operations.
            (1)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s]
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes;
            (2)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials
and chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally
or intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
            (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and
proposed or actual hours of operation;
            (4)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and
maximum per day);
            (5)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
         d.   Time and duration of discharges.
         e.   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit.
         f.   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in subsection
13.12.170A5 of this chapter (40 CFR 403.6(e)).
         g.   Measurement of pollutants.
            (1)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources.
            (2)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
environmental director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each
regulated process.
            (3)   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
            (4)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and
shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in subsection
13.12.230C of this chapter. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP
or pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as
required by the environmental director or the applicable standards to determine
compliance with the standard.
            (5)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in subsection 13.12.230D of this chapter.
         h.   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to    be
present in the discharge based on subsection
13.12.230B2 of this chapter.
         i.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
environmental director to evaluate the permit application.
      2.   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
      3.   Based on information provided by the permittee, in subsection DI of
this section, the city will within thirty (30) days determine if additional
information is needed, a permit is not necessaiy or if a permit will be
required to be issued before the IU discharge is allowed to the POTW.
      4.   Should any of the information requested or supplied be considered by
the user to be of a confidential nature, the user should request confidential
status in accordance with section
13.12.260 of this chapter. Information regarding sampling and analysis of the
discharge is not considered confidential information.
   E.   Application Signatories And Certifications:
      1.   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in subsection
13.12.230M1 of this chapter.
      2.   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the environmental director
prior to or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized
representative.
      3.   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by the environmental director pursuant to subsection C of the definition
of significant industrial user (SIU) in section
13.12.010 of this chapter must annually submit the signed certification
statement in subsection
13.12.230M2 of this chapter.
   F.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions: The environmental
director will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of a complete
permit application, the environmental director will determine whether to issue
an individual wastewater discharge permit. The environmental director may deny
or conditionally approve any application for an individual wastewater discharge
permit.
   G.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration: An individual
wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period, not to
exceed five (5) years from the effective date of the permit. An individual
wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five (5)
years, at the discretion of the environmental director. Each individual
wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will
expire.
   H.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents: An individual
wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the environmental director to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
      1.   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
         a.   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit
issuance date, expiration date and effective date;
         b.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to the city in accordance with
subsection K of this section, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or
operator with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
         c.   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
         d.   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state, and local law.
         e.   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
subsection
13.12.230B2 of this chapter.
         f.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule shall not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
         g.   The environmental director shall evaluate whether each SIU need
an accidental discharge/slug control plan or other action to control slug
discharges. The environmental director may require any user to develop, submit
for approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. An accidental discharge/slug control plan
shall address, at a minimum, the following:
            (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine
batch discharges:
            (2)   Description of stored chemical:
            (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the environmental
director of any accidental or slug discharge, as required by section
13.12.230 H of this ordinance: and
            (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or
slug discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvent, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
         h.   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the environmental director
must be included as a condition in the user's permit, see subsection
13.12.230B of this chapter.
         i.   Requirements to notify the environmental director of changes to
the industrial user's discharge thirty (30) days prior to the change that may
require permit modification. The environmental director may deny or
conditionally approve the change prior to the user making the change at the
facility that may impact the discharge at the facility to the POTW.
      2.   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be
limited to, the following conditions:
         a.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         b.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
         c.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine
discharges;
         d.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         e.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
         f.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
         g.   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable Federal and State pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit; and
         h.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the environmental
director to ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws,
rules, and regulations.
         i.   Permit Issuance Process: All wastewater discharge permits are
considered public record and can be made available through a written request to
the environmental director.
   J.   Permit Modification:
      1.   The environmental director may modify an individual wastewater
discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
         a.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
         b.   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
         c.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
         d.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a
threat to the city's POTW, city personnel, the treatment of sludge, or the
receiving waters;
         e.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
         f.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required
reporting;
         g.   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
         h.   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with subsection K of this
section.
   K.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer: Individual wastewater
discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or operator only if the
permittee gives at least thirty (30) days advance notice to the environmental
director and the environmental director approves the individual wastewater
discharge permit transfer. The notice to the environmental director must
include a written certification by the new owner or operator which:
      1.   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility's operations and processes;
      2.   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
      3.   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit;
      4.   The conditions of the permit will not change.
      Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
   L.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation: The environmental
director may revoke an individual wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      1.   Failure to notify the environmental director of significant changes
to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      2.   Failure to provide prior notification to environmental director of
changed conditions pursuant to subsection
13.12.230G of this chapter;
      3.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application;
      4.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      5.   Falsifying certification statements;
      6.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      7.   Refusing to allow the city timely access to the facility premises
and/or records;
      8.   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      9.   Failure to pay fines;
      10.   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      11.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      12.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application or reapplication;
      13.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      14.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any terms
of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
      Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation
of operations or transfer of business ownership. All individual wastewater
discharge permits issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a new
individual wastewater discharge permit to that user.
   M.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Reissuance: A user with an
expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply for individual
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with subsection D of this section, a minimum of
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the user's existing individual
wastewater discharge permit. An administrative extension of the wastewater
discharge permit may be extended to wastewater discharge permits that have
expired, if:
      1.   The permittee has submitted a timely application for renewal and the
permit has not been renewed through no fault of the permittee; or
      2.   The environmental department director otherwise determines that an
administrative extension is appropriate.
      Permits which are administratively extended shall continue in full force
and effect until they are renewed.
   N.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permitting; Existing Connections: Any
user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
one hundred eighty (180) days after said date, apply to the environmental
department director for an individual wastewater discharge permit in accordance
with subsection D of this section, and shall not cause or allow discharges to
the POTW to continue after one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date
of this chapter except in accordance with an individual wastewater discharge
permit issued by the environmental department director.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.345: REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS:
   A.   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the environmental director shall enter into
an interlocal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   B.   Prior to entering into an agreement required by subsection A of this
section, the environmental director shall request the following information
from the contributing municipality:
      1.   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      2.   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      3.   Such other information as the environmental director may deem
necessary.
   C.   An interlocal agreement, as required by subsection A of this section,
shall contain the following conditions:
      1.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer use
ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits,
including required baseline monitoring reports (BMRs) which are at least as
stringent as those developed by the environmental director. The requirement
shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be revised as necessary to
reflect changes made to city's ordinance or local limits;
      2.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      3.   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation activities,
including individual wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the environmental director; and
which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing
municipality and the environmental director;
      4.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
environmental director with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      5.   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      6.   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality's
discharge;
      7.   A provision ensuring the environmental director access to the
facilities of users located within the contributing municipality's
jurisdictional boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any
other duties deemed necessary by the environmental director; and
      8.   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms of
the interlocal agreement.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025
13.12.350: DOMESTIC WASTE HAULER PERMITS:
   Domestic septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the environmental director, and at such times as are established
by the environmental director. Such waste shall not violate section
13.12.160 or
13.12.170 of this chapter or any other requirements established by the City of
Logan. The environmental director may require septic tank haulers to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits which shall include the following:
   A.   A requirement that the domestic waste hauler submit a manifest form for
any domestic waste to be deposited in the city sewer system which shall include
the name of the customer, the type of waste and the estimated volume of the
waste. The domestic waste hauler must certify that the manifest is true,
accurate and complete. No waste from oil, sand or grease traps will be accepted
for discharge into the sewer system;
   B.   A requirement that the domestic waste hauler be subject to a fee of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) for the dumping of a vehicle capacity of not more than
one thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons and thirty dollars ($30.00) for the
dumping of any vehicle of a capacity of more than one thousand five hundred
(1,500) gallons. The actual contents of the vehicle shall not be determinative
of the fee, but the vehicle's capacity shall be determinative.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.351: LIQUID WASTE HAULER PERMITS:
   Hauled liquid waste, other than septic or industrial, may be introduced into
the POTW only at locations designated by the environmental director, and at
such times as are established by the environmental director. Such waste shall
not violate section
13.12.160 or
13.12.170 of this chapter or any other requirements established by the City of
Logan. The environmental director may require septic tank haulers to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits which shall include the following:
   A.   A requirement that the liquid waste hauler must submit a manifest form
for any liquid waste to be deposited to the city clarifier system which shall
include the name of the customer, the type of waste and the estimated volume of
the waste. The waste hauler must certify that the manifest is true, accurate
and complete. Certain wastes enumerated in section
13.12.160 of this chapter will be accepted for discharge to the city clarifier
system with prior approval of the environmental director or the environmental
director's delegate;
   B.   A requirement that the liquid waste hauler be subject to a fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the dumping of each vehicle capacity of not more
than four thousand (4,000) gallons. The actual contents of the vehicle shall
not be determinative of the fee, but the vehicle's capacity shall be
determinative.
(Ord. 17-25, 2018; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
ARTICLE IV. CONNECTION
13.12.360: DRAIN PIPES; DESCRIPTION:
   All connections to public sewers of the city shall be not less than four
inches (4") inside diameter of good, hard, sound, well glazed vitrified clay,
asbestos cement, concrete or cast iron soil pipe which shall be inspected and
approved by the city engineer before being installed. Pipe shall be laid true
to line and grade and not less than one foot (1') in sixty feet (60') fall. The
service line of vitrified clay, asbestos cement or concrete pipe shall be not
less than five feet (5') from the front wall of the building and from that
point thence into the building to be used shall be four inch (4") standard,
extra heavy iron, or larger as necessary. All joints shall be rubber ring or
factory made plastic compression joints. All sewer connections must be not less
than four feet (4') deep at curb line. All connections shall be laid true to
line and grade; necessary bends shall be made with curved pipe not greater than
one-eighth (1/8) bend. All connections shall be without traps or valves, or
other obstructions to prevent or retard the free passage of air from sewers to
main house stack, except as stated in this article.
(Prior Code § 14-4-1; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.370: CONNECTION WITH A "Y":
   It is unlawful for any person to make a connection with a "Y" except it be
done in the presence of the city engineer or an inspector delegated for that
purpose.
(Prior Code § 14- 4-2; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.380: TRENCHES; HOW BACKFILLED:
   Contractors who excavate sewer connection trenches, or any other trench in a
street in the city shall first cut the asphalt surface of the street along the
proposed lines of the trench with a jackhammer or other method that may have
been previously approved by the inspector. The contractor shall be responsible
for the removal and disposal of all material from the trench excavation. The
contractor shall backfill the first twelve inches (12") of trench with fine
earth or sand to protect the pipe. The balance of the trench shall be
backfilled with gravel which must be thoroughly flushed with water or tamped or
both, as may be directed by the inspector. After completion of the backfill,
the contractor must notify the city manager of the division of streets. After
notification of the manager of the division of streets, the city will then
patch the trench surface with asphalt material. Final cleanup of the excavation
must be approved by the inspector. It shall be unlawful to commence any
excavation in any city street without first notifying the inspector of the
location and time of the excavation.
(Prior Code § 14-4-3; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.390: CONNECTION BEFORE COMPLETION OF SEWER:
   During the construction of any sewer extensions, abutting property owners
may obtain permission to connect such property therewith by paying into the
city treasury her or his full assessment for such sewer extension and by
complying with all other requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code § 14-4-4; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.400: NOTICE REQUIRED TO BEGIN WORK:
   It is unlawful for any person to commence to lay any sewer or drain pipe
without having given to the city engineer or inspector at least one (1) day's
notice of the time when such person will commence the work. Work done without
notice or without inspection shall be treated as defective work, and shall be
condemned and uncovered, and if need be, reconstructed, and all at the expense
of the person doing such work without giving such notice. Sewer connections may
be made only at the point designated by the engineer or inspector. A violation
of this provision shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code § 14-4-5; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.410: JUNCTION PIPES:
   Unless directed in the permit all private sewers or house drains must be
connected with junction pipes, slants or "Ys" laid in the sewer during
construction. The connection point with the sewer must first be located before
opening the trench for the rest of the work. All trenches must be of sufficient
width and open in such manner as to permit easy inspection, and all connection
with the public sewer must be made in the presence of the inspector. In all
cases where connections are to be made, the opening of the sewer and the making
of such connections must be in strict accordance with the permit.
(Prior Code § 14-4-6; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.420: INDEPENDENT SYSTEMS:
   A.   Independent Connections Required: The drainage system of each new
building and of new work installed in any existing building shall be separate
and independent from that of any other building, and when available every
building shall have an independent connection with a public or private sewer.
   B.   Exception: Where one (1) building stands in the rear of another
building on an interior lot, and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through adjoining court, yard or driveway, the
building drain from the front building may be extended to the rear building.
(Prior Code § 14-4-7; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.430: INSIDE OF DRAIN:
   All drains connecting with the public sewer must be left smooth and
perfectly clean on the inside, and all dead ends must be securely stopped by
concrete or other watertight and imperishable materials.
(Prior Code § 14-4-8; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.440: CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION:
   Upon the completion of any work done under a permit to make a sewer
connection, the plumber or drain layer shall promptly notify the city engineer
or inspector to make an examination of the whole work and, if found to comply
with the provisions of this article, the city engineer or inspector shall
approve same and issue a certificate therefor.
(Prior Code § 14-4-9; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
13.12.450: CLEANOUT:
   A cleanout, when necessary, must be located within five feet (5') of the
property line, and in all cases must be of iron pipe from the "Y" to the
surface of the ground with a brass cleanout plug.
(Prior Code § 14-4-10; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
ARTICLE V. PENALTY
13.12.460: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Penalty provisions pertaining to violations of this chapter are found in
title 1,
chapter 1.16 of this code.
(Ord. 89-44 § 4,1989; amd. Ord. 23-31, 2-18-2025)
CHAPTER 13.14
STORMWATER UTILITY
SECTION:
Article I. Stormwater Utility Provisions
13.14.010: Purpose
13.14.020: Definitions
13.14.030: Established
13.14.040: Fee
13.14.050: Billing
Article II. Stormwater General Provisions
13.14.060: Purpose
13.14.070: Administrator Of Chapter
13.14.080: Definitions
Article III. Land Disturbance
13.14.090: Land Disturbance Permits
13.14.100: Drainage Channels, Waterways And Sensitive Areas
13.14.110: Building Permit
13.14.120: Exemptions
13.14.130: Application For A Land Disturbance Permit
13.14.140: Review And Approval Of Application
13.14.150: Permit Duration
13.14.160: Notice Of Construction
13.14.170: Performance Bonds
Article IV. Stormwater System Design And Management Standards
13.14.180: Irrigation Ditches
13.14.190: Stormwater Design and BMP Manuals
13.14.200: General Performance Criteria For Stormwater Management
13.14.210: Minimum Control Requirements
13.14.220: Stormwater Management Plan Requirements
13.14.230: Maintenance Easements
13.14.240: Maintenance Agreement
13.14.250: Dedication
13.14.260: Sediment And Erosion Control Plans
Article V. Postconstruction
13.14.270: As Built Plans
13.14.280: Landscaping And Stabilization Requirements
13.14.290: Inspection Of Stormwater Management Facilities
13.14.300: Records Of Installation And Maintenance Activities
13.14.310: Failure To Meet Or Maintain Design Or Maintenance Standards
Article VI. Waivers
13.14.320: General
13.14.330: Conditions For Waiver
13.14.340: Downstream Damage Prohibited
13.14.350: Land Disturbance Permit Issuance Restrictions
Article VII. Existing Locations And Developments
13.14.360: Requirements For All Existing Locations And Developments
13.14.370: Requirements For Existing Problem Locations
13.14.380: Inspection Of Existing Facilities
13.14.390: Corrections Of Problems Subject To Appeal
Article VIII. Illicit Discharges
13.14.400: Scope
13.14.410: Prohibition Of Illicit Discharges
13.14.420: Prohibition Of Illicit Connections
13.14.430: Reduction of Stormwater Pollutants By The Use Of Best Management
Practices
13.14.440: Notification Of Spills
Article IX. Enforcement
13.14.450: Enforcement Authority
13.14.460: Conflicting Standards
13.14.470: Violations
13.14.480: Recovery Of Damages And Costs
13.14.490: Other Remedies
13.14.500: Remedies Cumulative
ARTICLE I. STORMWATER UTILITY PROVISIONS
13.14.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
city and its inhabitants by improving the city's storm sewer system, managing
and controlling stormwater runoff, protecting property, preventing polluted
waters from entering the city's water supply and other receiving waters, and
establishing a viable and fair method of financing the construction, operation
and maintenance of the storm sewer system. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.020: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases for this chapter shall be as defined in section
3.14.080 of this chapter. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.030: ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The city council hereby creates and establishes a stormwater utility as
part of the city's overall storm sewer system. The stormwater utility shall
plan, design, construct, maintain, administer and operate the city's storm
sewer system.
   B.   The city council hereby establishes a stormwater utility enterprise
fund to handle all income, expenses and other financial transactions related to
the stormwater utility. All stormwater utility service charges shall be
accounted for in the enterprise fund. However, the stormwater utility may pay
other city funds for services and expenses directly attributable to the
stormwater utility. The enterprise fund shall be operated according to state
law and city policy.
   C.   The stormwater utility shall operate independently of city operations
funded by the general fund. The stormwater utility shall have the same
relationship to the city as other city utilities, such as the water utility and
the sanitary sewer (wastewater) utility. Upon creation of the utility, all of
the city's storm sewer facilities and assets (other than streets and other
facilities and assets designated by the public works director) shall be
transferred to the stormwater utility in consideration for the stormwater
utility's agreement to take primary responsibility for planning, designing,
constructing, maintaining, administering and operating the city's storm sewer
system.
   D.   The stormwater utility shall be administered by the city's public works
director or his designee. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.040: FEE:
   A.   Each developed parcel of real property in the city shall be charged a
stormwater utility fee.
   B.   The fee shall be based on the number of equivalent residential units
(ERUs) contained in the parcel. The city council finds that the ERU is the most
accurate measurement for determining the amount that each parcel contributes
to, benefits from, and otherwise uses the stormwater utility. Based on a study
completed by an independent engineer, the city council finds and establishes
that one ERU equals three thousand (3,000) square feet of impervious surface
area.
   C.   The city council finds that each single-family residential parcel
contributes approximately the same amount of stormwater runoff; therefore, each
developed single-family residential parcel shall pay a base rate of one ERU.
All nonsingle-family residential parcels shall pay a multiple of this base
rate, expressed in ERUs, according to the measured impervious area on the
parcel. The city council may adopt separate rates for PUDs, condominiums and
other uses that are not easily handled under the standard rate schedule.
   D.   The amount charged for each ERU shall be established by resolution of
the city council.
   E.   The city council may establish exemptions, surcharges and credits to
the stormwater utility fee by resolution.
   F.   The public works director may adopt policies, consistent with this
chapter and any resolutions passed by the city council, to assist in the
application, administration and interpretation of this chapter and any
resolutions related to the stormwater utility.
   G.   Any person or entity that believes that this chapter, or any stormwater
utility rate resolution, was interpreted or applied erroneously may appeal to
the public works director ("director"). The appeal shall be in writing, shall
state any facts supporting the appeal, and shall be made within ten (10) days
of the decision, action, or bill being appealed. The director may elect to hold
a hearing on the appeal. The director shall decide the appeal within ten (10)
days of when the appeal is filed. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.050: BILLING:
The city council finds that the city's storm sewer system, sanitary sewer
system, culinary water system, and solid waste collection system are
interrelated services that are part of a unified city plan to provide for the
health, safety and welfare of the city and its residents in an environmentally
responsible manner. Therefore, the stormwater utility fee shall be included on
the city's regular monthly utility bill for any given property. If there is no
regular utility bill for the property, the stormwater utility fee shall be
charged to the owner of the property. The fee shall be deemed a civil debt owed
to the city by the person or entity paying for the city utility services
provided to the property. All properties shall be charged the fee, regardless
of whether or not the owner or occupant of the property requests the stormwater
utility service. Failure to pay any portion of the utility bill may result in
termination of any or all utility services. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
ARTICLE II. STORMWATER GENERAL PROVISIONS
13.14.060: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Protect, maintain, and enhance the environment of the city of Logan.
   B.   Establish responsibilities for controlling and managing stormwater
runoff.
   C.   Protect the public health, safety and the general welfare of the
citizens of the city, by controlling discharges of pollutants to the city's
stormwater system and to maintain and improve the quality of the receiving
waters into which the stormwater outfalls flow, including, without limitation,
lakes, rivers, streams, ponds, wetlands, and groundwater of the city.
   D.   Enable the city to comply with the national pollution discharge
elimination system permit (NPDES/UPDES) and applicable regulations, 40 CFR
section 122.26 for stormwater discharges.
   E.   Allow the city to exercise the powers granted by Utah code, which
provides that, among other powers municipalities have with respect to
stormwater facilities, is the power by ordinance or resolution to:
      1.   Exercise general regulation over the planning, location,
construction, and operation and maintenance of stormwater facilities in the
municipality, whether or not owned and operated by the municipality;
      2.   Adopt any rules and regulations deemed necessary to accomplish the
purposes of this chapter, including the adoption of a system of fees for
services and permits;
      3.   Establish standards to regulate the quantity of stormwater
discharged and to regulate stormwater contaminants as may be necessary to
protect water quality;
      4.   Review and approve plans and plats for stormwater management in
proposed subdivisions or commercial developments;
      5.   Issue permits for stormwater discharges, or for the construction,
alteration, extension, or repair of stormwater facilities;
      6.   Suspend or revoke permits when it is determined that the permittee
has violated any applicable ordinance, resolution, or condition of the permit;
      7.   Regulate and prohibit discharges into stormwater facilities of
sanitary, industrial, or commercial sewage or other waters that have otherwise
been contaminated; and
      8.   Expend funds to remediate or mitigate the detrimental effects of
contaminated land or other sources of stormwater contamination, whether public
or private. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.070: ADMINISTRATOR OF CHAPTER:
The city engineer shall administer the provisions of this chapter. Nothing in
this chapter shall relieve any person from responsibility for damage to other
persons or property, nor impose upon the city of Logan, its officers, agents or
employees, any liability for damage to other persons or property. (Ord. 11-20,
2011)
13.14.080: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Words
used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the
singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. The
word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary. The word "may" is permissive.
Words not defined in this section shall be construed to have the meaning given
by common and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of "Webster's
Dictionary".
APPLICANT: A property owner or agent of a property owner who has filed an
application for a land disturbance permit.
AS BUILT PLANS: Drawings that depict conditions as they were actually
constructed.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): The schedule of activities, prohibition of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or
reduce pollution to waters of the state. BMPs also include treatment, operating
procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, waste
disposal, or drainage from material storage. BMPs also include structural and
nonstructural control.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that
conducts flowing water continuously or periodically.
CITY: The city of Logan.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer for the city of Logan, or authorized designee.
CITY STORMWATER SYSTEM: Storm systems that receive runoff from public rights of
way, natural and manmade waterways, systems identified in a city easement, and
systems identified on the city storm drainage map.
CONTAMINANT: Any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or
matter in water.
DESIGN STORM EVENT: A hypothetical storm event, of a given frequency interval
and duration, used in the analysis and design of a stormwater facility.
DEVELOPED PARCEL: Any parcel that has been altered from its natural condition
by grading, filling, or the construction of improvements or other impervious
surfaces.
DISCHARGE: Dispose, deposit, spill, pour, inject, seep, dump, leak or place by
any means, or that which is disposed, deposited, spilled, poured, injected,
seeped, dumped, leaked, or placed by any means including any direct or indirect
entry of any solid or liquid matter into the municipal separate storm sewer
system.
EASEMENT: An acquired privilege or right of use or enjoyment that a person,
party, firm, corporation, municipality or other legal entity has in the land of
another.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU): The average amount of impervious surface,
expressed in square feet, on developed single-family residential parcels in
Logan. One ERU equals three thousand (3,000) square feet of impervious surface
area.
EROSION: The removal of soil particles by the action of water, wind, ice or
other geological agents, whether naturally occurring or acting in conjunction
with or promoted by anthropogenic activities or effects.
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN: A written plan (including drawings or other
graphic representations) that is designed to minimize the accelerated erosion
and sediment runoff at a site during construction activities.
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER PERMIT: Permit required by the Utah department
of environmental quality, division of water quality.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: Illegal and/or unauthorized connections to the municipal
separate stormwater system whether or not such connections result in discharges
into that system.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system
that is not composed entirely of stormwater and not specifically exempted under
section
13.14.410 of this chapter.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surface, other than the natural surface, that
prevents or retards the absorption of water into the soil, or that causes water
to run off the surface in greater quantities or at greater rates of flow than
the natural surface.
IRRIGATION DITCHES: Gravity irrigation ditches used by irrigation shareowners
having a right of water passageway by right of way (ROW), easement or
prescription.
LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT: City of Logan land disturbance permit as adopted by
the city.
LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: Any activity on property that results in a change in
the existing soil cover (both vegetative and nonvegetative) and/or the existing
soil topography. Land disturbing activities include, but are not limited to,
development, redevelopment, demolition, construction, reconstruction,
landscaping, clearing, grading, filling, and excavation.
MAINTENANCE: Any activity that is necessary to keep a stormwater facility in
good working order so as to function as designed. Maintenance shall include
complete reconstruction of a stormwater facility if reconstruction is needed in
order to restore the facility to its original operational design parameters.
Maintenance shall also include the correction of any problem on the site
property that may directly impair the functions of the stormwater facility.
MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT: A document recorded in the land records that acts as a
property deed restriction, and which provides for long term maintenance of
stormwater management practices.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4) (MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORMWATER
SYSTEM): The conveyances owned or operated by the municipality for the
collection and transportation of stormwater, including the roads and streets
and their drainage systems, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade
channels, and storm drains.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT: A permit issued
pursuant to 33 USC 1342.
NOTICE OF TERMINATION (NOT): A written document which indicates the
requirements of the NOI or land disturbance permit has been completed. Issuance
of this document releases the permittee of further obligation for the
construction site. An NOT will be issued by the city and the state of Utah if
land disturbance is greater than one acre.
NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOV): Whenever the city engineer finds that a person is in
noncompliance with this chapter, the city engineer will order compliance by
written notice of violation to the responsible person. Requirements in this
notice are at the discretion of the engineer, and may include monitoring,
payment to cover costs relating to the noncompliance, and the implementation of
best management practices.
PREEXISTING CONDITIONS: Conditions of property in its native state or changed
under approval by the city or changed property that is grandfathered.
RUNOFF: That portion of the precipitation on a drainage area that is discharged
from the area into the municipal separate stormwater system.
SEDIMENT: Solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension, is
being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface either above or
below sea level.
SEDIMENTATION: Soil particles suspended in stormwater that can settle in
streambeds and disrupt the natural flow of the stream.
SOILS REPORT: A study of soils on a subject property with the primary purpose
of characterizing and describing the soils. The soils report shall be prepared
by a qualified soils engineer, who shall be directly involved in the soil
characterization either by performing the investigation or by directly
supervising employees.
STABILIZATION: Providing adequate measures, vegetative and/or structural, that
will prevent erosion from occurring.
STORMWATER: Stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, surface runoff, street wash
waters related to street cleaning or maintenance, infiltration and drainage.
STORMWATER DESIGN STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS: Current city of Logan stormwater
standards and regulations as adopted by the city.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT: The programs to maintain quality and quantity of
stormwater runoff to predevelopment levels.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES: The drainage structures, conduits, ditches,
combined sewers, sewers, and all device appurtenances by means of which
stormwater is collected, transported, pumped, treated or disposed of.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN: The set of drawings and other documents that
comprise all the information and specifications for the programs, drainage
systems, structures, BMPs, concepts and techniques intended to maintain or
restore quality and quantity of stormwater runoff to predevelopment levels.
STORMWATER MASTER PLAN: Current city of Logan "Storm Water Master Plan" as
adopted by the city.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): The plan required in part 3 of
the state of Utah department of environmental quality, division of water
quality, stormwater general permit for construction activities, permit no.
UTR300000.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: Flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from
precipitation.
STORMWATER UTILITY: The stormwater utility created by ordinance of the city to
administer the stormwater management ordinance, and other stormwater rules and
regulations adopted by the municipality.
STRUCTURAL BMPs: Devices that are constructed to provide control of stormwater
runoff.
SURFACE WATER: Includes waters upon the surface of the earth in bounds created
naturally or artificially including, but not limited to, streams, other
watercourses, lakes and reservoirs.
UPDES: Utah pollution discharge elimination system which is the state/national
program for issuing, modifying, revoking and reissuing, terminating, monitoring
and enforcing permits, and imposing and enforcing pretreatment requirements,
under sections 307, 318, 402, and 405 of the clean water act.
WATERCOURSE: A permanent or intermittent stream or other body of water, either
natural or manmade, which gathers or carries surface water.
WATERSHED: All the land area that contributes runoff to a particular point
along a waterway. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
ARTICLE III. LAND DISTURBANCE
13.14.090: LAND DISTURBANCE PERMITS:
Permits for land disturbances shall be required for the following:
   A.   Every person will be required to obtain a land disturbance permit from
the city engineer in the following cases:
      1.   Land disturbing activity generally disturbs one or more acres of
land.
      2.   Land disturbing activity of less than one acre of land if such
activity is part of a larger common plan of development that affects one or
more acre of land.
      3.   Land disturbing activity of less than one acre of land, if in the
discretion of the city engineer such activity poses a unique threat to water
quality, air quality, or public health or safety.
      4.   The creation and/or use of borrow pits.
      5.   Development of any parcel.
      6.   Processing of earthen materials such as topsoil and gravel
screening.
      7.   Construction of parking lots.
      8.   Placement or stockpiling of fill materials.
      9.   Modification of sensitive lands as defined in the city land
development code. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.100: DRAINAGE CHANNELS, WATERWAYS AND SENSITIVE AREAS:
   A.   Property owners shall not alter or restrict natural channels and
waterways without proper federal, state and city permits.
   B.   Modifications of sensitive areas are subject to and governed by chapter
17.31 sensitive lands (SL) combining district of the city of Logan land
development code. These actions will require a land disturbance permit and
approval from all other governing agencies.
   C.   Property owners proposing to redirect runoff, surface and/or pipe flow
to properties or facilities outside Logan City boundaries must provide written
approval from the state, county or municipality or their agents.
   D.   Property owners are responsible for the protection of canals per the
relevant sections of this chapter.
   E.   Discharges or modifications to the canals require written approval from
the canal owners and applicable governing agencies.
   F.   Property owners proposing to redirect runoff, surface and/or pipe flows
to locations or properties not in their ownership, must provide written
approval for the affected property owner(s). (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.110: BUILDING PERMIT:
No building permit shall be issued until the applicant has obtained a land
disturbance permit where the same is required by this chapter. (Ord. 11-20,
2011)
13.14.120: EXEMPTIONS:
The following activities are exempt from the permit requirement:
   A.   Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the protection
of life, property, or natural resources.
   B.   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a permitted
main or accessory use.
   C.   Agricultural activities that are consistent with an approved farm
conservation plan or a management plan prepared or approved by the appropriate
city, federal, or state agency.
   D.   Additions or modifications to existing single-family structures.
   E.   Landscaping as long as city right of way and adjacent property owners
are not adversely affected, as determined by the city engineer. (Ord. 11-20,
2011)
13.14.130: APPLICATION FOR A LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT:
   A.   Each application shall include the following:
      1.   Name of applicant;
      2.   Business or residence address of applicant;
      3.   Name, address and telephone number of the owner of the property of
record in the office of the county assessor of property;
      4.   Address and legal description of subject property including the tax
reference number and parcel number of the subject property;
      5.   Name, address and telephone number of the contractor and any
subcontractor(s) who shall perform the land disturbing activity and who shall
implement the erosion and sediment control plan;
      6.   A statement indicating the nature, extent and purpose of the land
disturbing activity including the size of the area for which the permit shall
be applicable and a schedule for the starting and completion dates of the land
disturbing activity.
   B.   The applicant shall obtain from any other state or federal agency any
other appropriate environmental permits that pertain to the property. However,
the inclusion of those permits in the application shall not foreclose the city
engineer from imposing additional development requirements and conditions,
commensurate with this chapter, on the development of property covered by those
permits.
   C.   Each application shall be accompanied by:
      1.   A sediment and erosion control plan prepared in accordance with the
"Cache Valley Storm Water Design Standards (as amended by the city of Logan)".
      2.   A landscaping/revegetation plan.
      3.   Postconstruction BMP(s).
   D.   A stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) which meets the
requirements of this chapter and the requirements of the state of Utah
construction general permit providing for stormwater management during the land
disturbing activity and after the activity has been completed. The SWPPP shall
remain in place until a notice of termination (NOT) has been issued by the city
and state. Each application for a land disturbance permit shall be accompanied
by payment of land disturbance permit and other stormwater management fees, as
adopted by resolution and found in the city fee schedule. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.140: REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
   A.   The city engineer will review each application for a land disturbance
permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this chapter. Within
fifteen (15) days after receiving a complete application, the city engineer
shall provide one of the following responses in writing:
      1.   Approval of the permit application;
      2.   Approval of the permit application, subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
chapter, and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
      3.   Denial of the permit application, indicating the reason(s) for the
denial.
   B.   If the city engineer has granted conditional approval of the permit,
the applicant shall submit a revised plan that conforms to the conditions
established by the city engineer. However, the applicant may be allowed to
proceed with their land disturbing activity so long as it conforms to
conditions established by the city engineer.
   C.   No development plans will be approved and released for construction
until the land disturbance permit has been issued. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.150: PERMIT DURATION:
Every land disturbance permit shall expire and become null and void if
substantial work authorized by such permit has not commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) calendar days of issuance, or is not complete within eighteen (18)
months from the date of the commencement of construction, unless a written
extension has been issued by the city engineer prior to the expiration date. A
written extension may only be issued for good cause and may not exceed six (6)
months. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.160: NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION:
The applicant must notify the city engineer ten (10) working days in advance of
the commencement of construction. Regular inspections of the stormwater
management system construction shall be conducted by the city engineer or his
designee. All inspections shall be documented and written reports prepared that
contain the following information:
   A.   The date and location of the inspection;
   B.   Whether construction is in compliance with the approved stormwater
prevention pollution plan;
   C.   Variations from the approved construction specifications;
   D.   Any violations that exist. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.170: PERFORMANCE BONDS:
   A.   The city engineer may, at his discretion:
      1.   Require the submittal of a performance security or performance bond
prior to issuance of a permit in order to ensure that the stormwater practices
are installed by the permit holder as required by the approved stormwater
management plan.
         a.   The amount of the installation performance security or
performance bond shall be the total estimated construction cost of the
structural BMPs approved under the permit plus any reasonably foreseeable
additional related costs, e.g., for warranty, damages or enforcement.
         b.   The performance security shall contain forfeiture provisions for
failure to complete work specified in the stormwater management plan.
         c.   The applicant shall provide an itemized construction cost
estimate complete with unit prices which shall be subject to acceptance,
amendment or rejection by the city engineer.
         d.   Alternatively the city engineer shall have the right to calculate
estimates for the cost of construction.
   B.   The performance security or performance bond shall be released in full
only upon submission of as built plans and written certification by the city
engineer or his designee that the permanent structural BMP(s) has been
installed in accordance with the approved plan and other applicable provisions
of this chapter.
   C.   The city engineer will make a final inspection of the structural BMP to
ensure that it is in compliance with the approved plan and the provisions of
this chapter. Provisions for a partial pro rata release of the performance
security or performance bond based on the completion of various development
stages can be made at the discretion of the city engineer. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
ARTICLE IV. STORMWATER SYSTEM DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT STANDARDS
13.14.180: IRRIGATION DITCHES:
   A.   Any impacts to irrigation ditches and structures shall comply with the
following:
      1.   All existing irrigation ditches located on the site or straddling a
site property boundary shall be maintained with sufficient size and capacity
for all identified flows. Ditches may be either open channel or piped. All
modifications shall be coordinated with water user and/or ditch owner, and
approved by the city engineer and/or any necessary state or federal agencies.
      2.   Property owners are responsible for the protection of irrigation
ditches per the relevant sections of this chapter.
      3.   Discharges to private ditches require written approval from the
ditch owners and design shall comply with the terms of approvals and the "Cache
Valley Storm Water Design Standards (as amended by the city of Logan)" and the
"land disturbance permit" incorporated by reference into this chapter.
      4.   Piping of ditches and modification to the diversion boxes require
documented coordination with ditch owners or representative but are not
required to receive written approval of ditch owners. Design and coordination
requirements shall comply with the "Cache Valley Storm Water Design Standards
(as amended by the city of Logan)" and the "land disturbance permit"
incorporated by reference into this chapter. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.190: STORMWATER DESIGN AND BMP MANUALS:
   A.   Design Of Systems: Design of storm drain systems and discharges into a
Logan City storm drain system requires direct supervision of a Utah registered
professional engineer, and shall carry the seal of the same supervising
professional engineer.
   B.   Adoption: The city adopts as its stormwater design and best management
practices (BMP) manuals the following publications, which are incorporated by
reference in this chapter as if fully set out herein:
      1.   "Cache Valley Storm Water Design Standards (as amended by the city
of Logan)".
      2.   City of Logan "Storm Drain Master Plan".
      3.   Salt Lake County public works department "Guidance Document For
Stormwater Management" for construction activities, or other guidance documents
as approved by the city engineer.
   C.   BMP Manuals: These manuals include a list of acceptable BMPs and
include specific design performance criteria and operation and maintenance
requirements for each stormwater practice. The manuals may be updated and
expanded from time to time, as approved by the city engineer, based on
improvements in engineering, science, monitoring and local maintenance
experience. Stormwater facilities that are designed, constructed and maintained
in accordance with these BMP criteria will be presumed to meet the minimum
water quality performance standards. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.200: GENERAL PERFORMANCE CRITERIA FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
Unless granted a waiver or judged by the city engineer to be exempt, the
following postconstruction performance criteria shall be addressed for
stormwater management at all sites:
   A.   All site designs shall control the peak flow rates of stormwater
discharge associated with design storms specified in this chapter or in the BMP
manual and reduce the generation of postconstruction stormwater runoff volumes
and water quality to preconstruction levels. These practices should seek to
utilize pervious areas for stormwater treatment and to infiltrate stormwater
runoff from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and landscaped areas
to the maximum extent practical to provide treatment for both water quality and
quantity. Other low impact development (LID) methods are also encouraged.
   B.   To protect stream channels from degradation, specific channel
protection criteria shall be provided as prescribed in the BMP manual.
   C.   Stormwater discharges to critical areas with sensitive resources (i.e.,
cold water fisheries, recreation areas, recharge areas, water supply
reservoirs) may be subject to additional performance criteria, or may need to
utilize or restrict certain stormwater management practices.
   D.   Stormwater discharges from sites with known potential contaminant
sources may require the application of specific structural BMPs and pollution
prevention practices.
   E.   Prior to or during the site design process, applicants for land
disturbance permits shall consult with the city engineer to determine if they
are subject to additional stormwater design requirements.
   F.   The calculations for determining peak flows for construction activities
as found in the "Cache Valley Storm Water Design Standards (as amended by the
city of Logan)" shall be used for sizing all stormwater facilities. (Ord. 11-
20, 2011)
13.14.210: MINIMUM CONTROL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Stormwater discharge during all construction activities shall comply
with the terms of the land disturbance permit, the "Cache Valley Storm Water
Design Standards (as amended by the city of Logan)", requirements set forth by
the uniform building code, and the state of Utah UPDES requirements.
   B.   Stormwater designs for postconstruction BMPs shall meet storage
requirements as identified in the "Cache Valley Storm Water Design Standards
(as amended by the city of Logan)" unless the city engineer has granted the
applicant a full or partial waiver for a particular BMP under this article.
   C.   Runoff rates from one lot to another may not exceed preexisting
conditions and may not cause more impact than formerly experienced in
accordance with the "Cache Valley Storm Water Design Standards (as amended by
the city of Logan)".
   D.   If hydrologic or topographic conditions warrant modifications to the
minimum control requirements, the city engineer may impose any and all
additional requirements deemed necessary to control the volume, timing, and
rate of runoff. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.220: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Property owners are responsible to manage stormwater runoff and
sediment whether in conduit systems or on the surface that traverse or
originate on their property, unless this responsibility is relinquished through
the terms and conditions of an easement. The stormwater management plan shall
include sufficient information to allow the city engineer to evaluate the
environmental characteristics of the project site, the potential impacts of all
proposed development of the site, both present and future, on the water
resources, and the effectiveness and acceptability of the measures proposed for
managing stormwater generated at the project site. To accomplish this goal the
stormwater management plan shall include the following:
      1.   Topographic Base Map: Topographic base map;
      2.   Existing Drainage: Existing surface water drainage including
streams, ponds, culverts, ditches, sinkholes, wetlands; and the type, size,
elevation, etc., of nearest upstream and downstream drainage structures;
      3.   Current Land Use: Current land use including all existing
structures, locations of utilities, roads, and easements;
      4.   Existing Features: All other existing significant natural and
artificial features;
      5.   Proposed Use: Proposed land use with tabulation of the percentage of
surface area to be adapted to various uses; drainage patterns; locations of
utilities, roads and easements; the limits of clearing and grading;
      6.   Proposed BMPs: Proposed structural and nonstructural BMPs;
      7.   Written Description: A written description of the site plan and
justification of proposed changes in natural conditions shall also be required;
      8.   Calculations: Hydrologic and hydraulic design calculations for the
predevelopment and postdevelopment conditions for the design storms specified
in the "Cache Valley Storm Water Design Standards (as amended by the City of
Logan)". These calculations must show that the proposed stormwater management
measures are capable of controlling runoff from the site in compliance with
this chapter and the guidelines of the "Cache Valley Storm Water Design
Standards (as amended by the city of Logan)". Such calculations shall include:
         a.   A description of the design storm frequency, duration, and
intensity where applicable;
         b.   Time of concentration;
         c.   Soil curve numbers or runoff coefficients including assumed soil
moisture conditions;
         d.   Peak runoff rates and total runoff volumes for each watershed
area;
         e.   Infiltration rates, where applicable;
         f.   Culvert, stormwater sewer, ditch and/or other stormwater
conveyance capacities;
         g.   Flow velocities;
         h.   Data on the increase in rate and volume of runoff for the design
storms referenced in the "Cache Valley Storm Water Design Standards (as amended
by the city of Logan)";
         i.   Documentation of sources for all computation methods and field
test results;
      9.   Soils Information: If a stormwater management control measure
depends on the hydrologic properties of soils (e.g., infiltration basins,
grassed swales), then a soils report shall be submitted. The soils report shall
be based on on site boring logs or soil pit profiles and soil survey reports.
The number and location of required soil borings or soil pits shall be
determined based on what is needed to determine the suitability and
distribution of soil types present at the location of the control measure;
      10.   Operation And Maintenance Plan: The design and planning of all
stormwater management facilities shall include detailed maintenance and repair
procedures to ensure their continued performance. These plans will identify the
parts or components of a stormwater management facility that need to be
maintained and the equipment and skills or training necessary. Provisions for
the periodic review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the maintenance
program and the need for revisions or additional maintenance procedures shall
be included in the plan. A permanent elevation bench mark shall be identified
in the plans to assist in the periodic inspection of the facility. Plans shall
designate responsible party(ies) for implementation and maintenance of the
operation and maintenance plan;
      11.   Landscaping Plan: The applicant must present a detailed plan for
management of vegetation at the site after construction is finished, including
who will be responsible for the maintenance of vegetation at the site and what
practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is
preserved, where it is required by the BMP. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.230: MAINTENANCE EASEMENTS:
The applicant must ensure access to the site for the purpose of inspection,
maintenance, and repair by securing all the maintenance easements needed. These
easements must be binding on the current property owner and all subsequent
owners of the property and must be properly recorded in the land record. (Ord.
11-20, 2011)
13.14.240: MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT:
   A.   The owner of property to be served by an on site stormwater management
facility must execute an inspection and maintenance agreement that shall
operate as a deed restriction binding on the current property owner and all
subsequent property owners. The maintenance agreement shall:
      1.   Assign responsibility for the maintenance and repair of the
stormwater facility to the owner of the property upon which the facility is
located and be recorded as such on the plat for the property by appropriate
notation.
      2.   Provide for periodic inspections by the property owner as outlined
in the state of Utah general construction permit for the purpose of documenting
maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with the purpose and
requirements of this chapter. The property owner will arrange for this
inspection to be conducted by owner or operator and provide inspection
documentation for the city engineer. It shall also grant permission to the city
to enter the property at reasonable times and to inspect the stormwater
facility to ensure that it is being properly maintained.
      3.   Provide that the minimum maintenance and repair needs include, but
are not limited to: the removal of silt, litter and other debris, the removal
of other accumulated contaminants, the cutting of grass, grass cuttings and
vegetation removal, and the replacement of landscape vegetation, in detention
and retention basins, and inlets and drainage pipes and any other stormwater
facilities. It shall also provide that the property owner shall be responsible
for additional maintenance and repair needs consistent with the needs and
standards outlined in the BMP manual.
      4.   Provide that maintenance needs must be addressed in a timely manner,
on a schedule to be determined by the city engineer.
      5.   Provide that if the property is not maintained or repaired within
the prescribed schedule, the city engineer may perform the maintenance and
repair at its expense, and bill the same to the property owner. The maintenance
agreement may also provide that the city's cost of performing the maintenance
shall be a lien against the property. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.250: DEDICATION:
   A.   The municipality shall have the discretion to accept the dedication of
any existing or future stormwater management facility, provided such facility
meets the requirements of this chapter, and includes adequate and perpetual
access and sufficient areas, by easement or otherwise, for inspection and
regular maintenance. Any stormwater facility accepted by the municipality must
also meet the municipality's construction standards and any other standards and
specifications that apply to the particular stormwater facility in question.
(Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.260: SEDIMENT AND EROSION CONTROL PLANS:
The applicant must prepare a sediment and erosion control plan which meets the
requirement of the state of Utah general construction permit for all
construction activities regulated by this chapter.
   A.   The sediment and erosion control plan shall accurately describe the
potential for soil erosion and sedimentation problems resulting from land
disturbing activity and shall explain and illustrate the measures that are to
be taken to control these problems. The length and complexity of the plan is to
be commensurate with the size of the project, severity of the site condition,
and potential for off site damage. The plan shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer licensed in the state of Utah, unless it is determined by
the city engineer that said certification is not necessary because of the
simplicity or the common nature of the plan. The plan shall also conform to the
requirements found in the BMP manual, and shall include at least the following:
      1.   Project description. Briefly describe the intended project and
proposed land disturbing activity including number of units and structures to
be constructed and infrastructure required.
      2.   A topographic map with contour intervals showing present conditions
and proposed contours resulting from land disturbing activity.
      3.   All existing drainageways, including intermittent and wet weather.
Include any designated floodways or floodplains.
      4.   A general description of existing land cover. Individual trees and
shrubs do not need to be identified.
      5.   Stands of existing trees as they are to be preserved upon project
completion, specifying their general location on the property. Differentiation
shall be made between existing trees to be preserved, trees to be removed and
proposed planted trees. Tree protection measures must be identified, and the
diameter of the area involved must also be identified on the plan and shown to
scale. Information shall be supplied concerning the proposed destruction of
exceptional and historic trees in setbacks and buffer strips, where they exist.
Complete landscape plans may be submitted separately. The plan must include the
sequence of implementation for tree protection measures.
      6.   Approximate limits of proposed clearing, grading and filling.
      7.   Approximate flows of existing stormwater leaving any portion of the
site (during and after construction).
      8.   A general description of existing soil types and characteristics and
any anticipated soil erosion and sedimentation problems resulting from existing
characteristics.
      9.   Location, size and layout of proposed stormwater and sedimentation
control improvements.
      10.   Proposed drainage network.
      11.   Proposed drain or waterway sizes.
      12.   Approximate flows leaving site after construction and incorporating
water runoff mitigation measures. The evaluation must include projected effects
on property adjoining the site and on existing drainage facilities and systems.
The plan must address the adequacy of outfalls from the development: when water
is concentrated, what is the capacity of waterways, if any, accepting
stormwater off site; and what measures, including infiltration, sheeting into
buffers, etc., are going to be used to prevent the scouring of waterways and
drainage areas off site, etc.
      13.   The projected sequence of work represented by the grading, drainage
and sedimentation and erosion control plans as related to other major items of
construction, beginning with the initiation of excavation and including the
construction of any sediment basins or retention facilities or any other
structural BMPs.
      14.   Specific remediation measures to prevent erosion and sedimentation
runoff. Plans shall include detailed drawings of all control measures used;
stabilization measures including vegetation and nonvegetation measures, both
temporary and permanent, will be detailed. Detailed construction notes and a
maintenance schedule shall be included for all control measures in the plan.
      15.   Specific details for the construction of rock pads, wash down pads,
and settling basins for controlling erosion; road access points; eliminating or
keeping soil, sediment, and debris on streets and public ways at a level
acceptable to the city engineer. Soil, sediment, and debris brought onto
streets and public ways must be removed by the end of the workday by machine,
broom or shovel as a minimum. More frequent intervals may be required and
directed by the city engineer if hazards or tracking nuisances are present.
Street cleaning shall be conducted in a manner as to minimize dust and airborne
emissions. Failure to remove the sediment, soil or debris shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
      16.   Proposed structures; location (to the extent possible) and
identification of any proposed additional buildings, structures or development
on the site.
      17.   A description of on site measures to be taken to recharge surface
water into the groundwater system through infiltration. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
ARTICLE V. POSTCONSTRUCTION
13.14.270: AS BUILT PLANS:
All applicants are required to submit actual as built plans for any structures
located on site after final construction is completed. The plan must show the
final design specifications for all stormwater management facilities. A final
inspection by the city engineer is required before any performance security or
performance bond will be released. The city engineer shall have the discretion
to adopt provisions for a partial pro rata release of the performance security
or performance bond on the completion of various stages of development. In
addition, occupancy permits and NOT shall not be granted until corrections to
all development requirements and BMPs have been made and accepted by the city
engineer. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.280: LANDSCAPING AND STABILIZATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any area of land from which the natural vegetative cover has been
either partially or wholly cleared by development activities shall be
revegetated according to a schedule approved by the city engineer. The
following criteria shall apply to revegetation efforts:
      1.   Reseeding must be done with an annual or perennial cover crop
accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient
coverage to control erosion until such time as the cover crop is established
over ninety percent (90%) of the seeded area.
      2.   Replanting with native woody and herbaceous vegetation must be
accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient
coverage to control erosion until the plantings are established and are capable
of controlling erosion.
      3.   Any area of revegetation must exhibit survival of a minimum of
seventy five percent (75%) of the cover crop throughout the year immediately
following revegetation. Revegetation must be repeated in successive years until
the minimum seventy five percent (75%) survival for one year is achieved.
      4.   In addition to the above requirements, a stabilization or
landscaping plan must be submitted with the final design describing the
vegetative stabilization and management techniques to be used at a site after
construction is completed. This plan will explain not only how the site will be
stabilized after construction, but who will be responsible for the maintenance
of vegetation at the site and what practices will be employed to ensure that
adequate vegetative cover is preserved. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.290: INSPECTION OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES:
Periodic inspections of facilities shall be performed as provided for in this
article. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.300: RECORDS OF INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES:
Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater
management facility shall make records of the installation of the stormwater
facility, and of all maintenance and repairs to the facility, and shall retain
the records for at least three (3) years. These records shall be made available
to the city engineer during inspection of the facility and at other reasonable
times upon request. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.310: FAILURE TO MEET OR MAINTAIN DESIGN OR MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
If a responsible party fails or refuses to meet the design or maintenance
standards required for stormwater facilities under this chapter, the city
engineer, after reasonable notice, may correct a violation of the design
standards or maintenance needs by performing all necessary work to place the
facility in proper working condition. In the event that the stormwater
management facility becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the
city engineer shall notify in writing the party responsible for maintenance of
the stormwater management facility. Upon receipt of that notice, the
responsible person shall have fifteen (15) days to effect maintenance and
repair of the facility in an approved manner. In the event that corrective
action is not undertaken within that time, the city engineer may take necessary
corrective action. The cost of any action by the city engineer under this
section shall be charged to the responsible party. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
ARTICLE VI. WAIVERS
13.14.320: GENERAL:
Every applicant shall provide for postconstruction stormwater management as
required by this chapter, unless a written request is filed to waive this
requirement. Requests to waive the stormwater management plan requirements
shall be submitted to the city engineer for approval. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.330: CONDITIONS FOR WAIVER:
   A.   The minimum requirements for stormwater management may be waived in
whole or in part upon written request of the applicant, provided that at least
one of the following conditions applies:
      1.   It can be demonstrated that the proposed development is not likely
to impair attainment of the objectives of this chapter.
      2.   Alternative minimum requirements for on site management of
stormwater discharges have been established in a stormwater management plan
that has been approved by the city engineer.
      3.   Provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off site facility.
The off site facility must be in place and designed to provide the level of
stormwater control that is equal to or greater than that which would be
afforded by on site practices. Further, the facility must be operated and
maintained by an entity that is legally obligated to continue the operation and
maintenance of the facility. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.340: DOWNSTREAM DAMAGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   In order to receive a waiver, the applicant must demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the city engineer that the waiver will not lead to any of the
following conditions downstream:
      1.   Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other
structures;
      2.   Degradation of biological functions or habitat;
      3.   Accelerated stream bank or streambed erosion or siltation;
      4.   Increased threat of flood damage or water quality degradation to
public health, life or property. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.350: LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT ISSUANCE RESTRICTIONS:
No land disturbance permit shall be issued where a waiver has been requested
until the waiver is granted. If no waiver is granted, the plans must be
resubmitted with a stormwater management plan. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
ARTICLE VII. EXISTING LOCATIONS AND DEVELOPMENTS
13.14.360: REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL EXISTING LOCATIONS AND DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   The following requirements shall apply to all locations and
developments at which land disturbing activities have occurred previous to the
enactment of this chapter:
      1.   Denuded areas must be vegetated or covered under the standards and
guidelines specified in the BMP manual and on a schedule acceptable to the city
engineer.
      2.   Cuts and slopes must be properly covered with appropriate vegetation
and/or retaining walls constructed.
      3.   Drainageways shall be properly covered in vegetation or secured with
riprap, channel lining, etc., to prevent erosion.
      4.   Trash, junk, rubbish, etc., shall be cleared from drainageways.
      5.   Stormwater runoff shall be controlled to the extent reasonable to
prevent pollution of local waters. Such control measures may include, but are
not limited to, the following:
         a.   Ponds:
            (1)   Detention/retention pond.
            (2)   Extended detention pond.
            (3)   Wet pond.
            (4)   Alternative storage measures.
         b.   Constructed wetlands.
         c.   Infiltration systems:
            (1)   Infiltration/percolation trench.
            (2)   Infiltration basin.
            (3)   Drainage (recharge) well.
            (4)   Porous pavement.
         d.   Filtering systems:
            (1)   Catch basin inserts/media filter.
            (2)   Sand filter.
            (3)   Filter/absorption bed.
            (4)   Filter and buffer strips.
         e.   Open channel.
         f.   Swale. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.370: REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING PROBLEM LOCATIONS:
The city engineer shall in writing notify the owners of existing locations and
developments of specific drainage, erosion or sediment problem affecting such
locations and developments, and the specific actions required to correct those
problems. The notice shall also specify a reasonable time for compliance. (Ord.
11-20, 2011)
13.14.380: INSPECTION OF EXISTING FACILITIES:
The city engineer may, to the extent authorized by state and federal law,
establish inspection programs to verify that all stormwater management
facilities, including those built before as well as after the adoption of this
chapter, are functioning within design limits. These inspection programs may be
established on any reasonable basis, including, but not limited to: routine
inspections; random inspections; inspections based upon complaints or other
notice of possible violations; inspection of drainage basins or areas
identified as higher than typical sources of sediment or other contaminants or
pollutants; inspections of businesses or industries of a type associated with
higher than usual discharges of contaminants or pollutants or with discharges
of a type which are more likely than the typical discharge to cause violations
of the municipality's UPDES stormwater permit; and joint inspections with other
agencies inspecting under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may
include, but are not limited to: reviewing maintenance and repair records;
sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material or water in
drainage control facilities; and evaluating the condition of drainage control
facilities and other BMPs. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.390: CORRECTIONS OF PROBLEMS SUBJECT TO APPEAL:
Corrective measures imposed by the city engineer under this section are subject
to appeal under this chapter. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
ARTICLE VIII. ILLICIT DISCHARGES
13.14.400: SCOPE:
This section shall apply to all water generated on developed or undeveloped
land and entering the municipality's storm sewer system. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.410: PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES:
   A.   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the municipal
separate storm sewer system any discharge that is not composed entirely of
stormwater. The commencement, conduct or continuance of any nonstormwater
discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system is prohibited except as
described as follows:
      1.   Uncontaminated discharges from the following sources:
         a.   Water line flushing or other potable water sources,
         b.   Uncontaminated landscape irrigation,
         c.   Diverted stream flows,
         d.   Rising groundwater,
         e.   Groundwater infiltration to storm drains,
         f.   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater,
         g.   Foundation or footing drains,
         h.   Crawl space pumps,
         i.   Uncontaminated air conditioning condensation,
         j.   Springs,
         k.   Natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
         l.   Swimming pools (if dechlorinated, typically less than 1 ppm
chlorine),
         m.   Firefighting activities,
         n.   Any other uncontaminated water source,
         o.   Discharges specified in writing by the city engineer as being
necessary to protect public health and safety, and
         p.   Dye testing.
      2.   Nonstormwater discharge permitted under an UPDES permit, waiver, or
waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the state of Utah division of water quality, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system. (Ord.
11-20, 2011)
13.14.420: PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the separate municipal storm sewer system is prohibited.
   B.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.430: REDUCTION OF STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES:
Any person responsible for a property or premises, which is, or may be, the
source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at the person's
expense, the BMPs necessary to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to
the municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and
conditions of a valid UPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater
associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed
compliance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.440: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting in, or may result in, illicit discharges or
pollutants discharging into stormwater, and the municipal separate storm sewer
system, the person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials the person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, the person shall notify the city engineer in
person or by telephone or facsimile no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by telephone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the city engineer within three (3) business days of the
telephone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a
commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such
establishment shall also retain an on site written record of the discharge,
actions taken to clean up the discharge, and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for a minimum of three (3) years.
(Ord. 11-20, 2011)
ARTICLE IX. ENFORCEMENT
13.14.450: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
   A.   The city engineer or his designees shall have the authority to issue
notices of violation, stop work orders, and citations, and to pursue civil and
criminal penalties provided by law.
      1.   With the issuance of a city land disturbance permit, building
permit, conditional use permit or other permits issued by the city, the city
engineer shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to this
chapter at all reasonable times and as often as necessary to determine
compliance. Failure to comply with the terms of this chapter may result in
punitive actions by the city of Logan ordinance enforcement, by the Bear River
health department (BRHD), Utah state division of water quality, EPA or by other
means identified in permits or terms set forth in development applications.
(Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.460: CONFLICTING STANDARDS:
Whenever there is a conflict between any standard contained in this chapter and
in the BMP manual adopted by the municipality under this chapter, the strictest
standard shall prevail. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.470: VIOLATIONS:
Any person who shall commit any act declared unlawful under this chapter, who
violates any provision of this chapter, who violates the provisions of any
permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or who fails or refuses to comply with
any lawful communication or notice to abate or take corrective action by the
city engineer, shall be subject to: criminal prosecution punishable as a class
B misdemeanor; administrative enforcement pursuant to the procedures set forth
in LDC section 17.60 administrative enforcement code; and any other civil
actions allowed by law. The municipality shall have sole discretion in deciding
whether to file a civil or criminal case or pursue administrative enforcement
action. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.480: RECOVERY OF DAMAGES AND COSTS:
In addition to the penalties set forth in this chapter, the municipality may
recover:
   A.   All damages proximately caused by the violator to the municipality,
which may include any reasonable expenses incurred in investigating violations
of, and enforcing compliance with, this chapter, or any other actual damages
caused by the violation.
   B.   The costs of the municipality's maintenance of stormwater facilities
when the user of such facilities fails to maintain them as required by this
chapter. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.490: OTHER REMEDIES:
The municipality may bring legal action to enjoin the continuing violation of
this chapter, and the existence of any other remedy, at law or equity, shall be
no defense to any such actions. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
13.14.500: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
The remedies set forth in this article shall be cumulative, not exclusive, and
it shall not be a defense to any action, civil or criminal, that one or more of
the remedies set forth herein has been sought or granted. (Ord. 11-20, 2011)
CHAPTER 13.16
ELECTRICITY
SECTION:
Article I. Electric Services
13.16.010: Access To Lot And Building Supplied With Electricity
13.16.020: Use Of Current; Permit
13.16.030: Duty To Pay; Disconnection
13.16.040: Rates
13.16.050: Application
Article II. Poles And Wires
13.16.060: Erection; Bond
13.16.070: Erection; Permit; Filing Maps
13.16.080: Application
13.16.090: Permits Not Granted When
13.16.100: Poles Unlawful Where
13.16.110: Fire Alarms Or Police, Telegraph Or Telephone Systems
13.16.120: Wires; Supervision
13.16.130: Poles; Finish And Size
13.16.140: Wires; Height
13.16.150: Line Wires; Specifications
13.16.160: Overhead Wires
13.16.170: Wires On Exterior Of Building
13.16.180: Constant Potential Lines Over Two Thousand Five Hundred Volts
13.16.190: Electric Light Wires Crossing Other Wires
13.16.200: High Potential Lines Near Buildings
13.16.210: Transformers
13.16.220: Apparatus To Be Removed When
13.16.230: Wires To Be Disconnected When
13.16.240: Interference Unlawful
ARTICLE I. ELECTRIC SERVICES
13.16.010: ACCESS TO LOT AND BUILDING SUPPLIED WITH ELECTRICITY:
Free access shall at all proper hours be allowed to the employees of the city
electric power system or any other person duly authorized by the director of
the light department to any lot, premises or building containing any electrical
appliance, motor or apparatus which interferes with any part of the city
electric light, heat or power from the system, to examine the apparatus, the
amount used, and the manner of using the electric current; and if any customer
shall improperly use the current in any manner in violation of any rules and
regulations for the control of the same and the provisions of this title, the
electric current may be cut off from the customer. (Prior code § 8-5-1)
13.16.020: USE OF CURRENT; PERMIT:
It is unlawful for any person by himself, herself, family, servants or agents,
to use the electric current from the city electric power system without first
obtaining permission and paying therefor the appropriate deposit and rates
fixed; and it is unlawful for any person, after the electric current has been
turned off from such person's premises, or from any part thereof because of
nonpayment of charges, or violation of the rules and regulations pertaining to
such system, to turn the electric current upon the premises or portion thereof,
from which it has been cut off, or to use or allow the same to be used without
authority. (Prior code § 8-5-2)
13.16.030: DUTY TO PAY; DISCONNECTION:
It shall be the duty of every person who receives electrical current from the
city electrical power system, whether the same be used for lighting, heating,
cooking or power, to pay for such current at the end of each month when billed
for the same at the meter rates then in force and theretofore adopted by the
municipal council. Any person failing or neglecting to so pay for the current
so received for a period of twenty (20) days after being billed for the same
shall be deemed in default and any person who is in default may be disconnected
upon his or her failure to pay for the same within ten (10) days after
receiving notice to the effect that service will be disconnected unless such
payment is made. When service has once been disconnected from any house or
place on account of nonpayment of account due for such electrical service, the
service shall not again be restored to such place until such back account shall
first be paid.
(Ord. 24-07, 2024: Prior code § 8-5-3)
13.16.040: RATES:
Rates for electrical services supplied by the city power department shall
hereafter be established in rate schedules which may be promulgated hereafter
by resolution of the municipal council of the city, with approval of the mayor,
and such rate schedules so established shall be the uniform and official
electric rates for the city power department until superseded. Copies of such
rate schedules shall be maintained at all times in the office of the city
recorder and shall at all times during normal office hours be available for
inspection by the public. (Prior code § 8-5-4)
13.16.050: APPLICATION:
Application and agreement to pay for electricity, water, sewer and refuse
service must be made at the same time and must be signed by the owner (or his
agent) of the property or the tenant. The utilities customer shall be liable
under this agreement for services furnished. (Ord. 16-06, 2016)
ARTICLE II. POLES AND WIRES
13.16.060: ERECTION; BOND:
It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any telegraph, telephone,
street railroad, electric light or electric railroad poles within the corporate
limits of the city without first having executed and delivered to the city a
bond in the sum of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) to be approved by
the mayor conditional that they will defend all suits and claims and will
indemnify and save the city harmless from any and all damages that may be
caused by reason of the erection, maintenance, operation, management or use or
failure to keep in proper repair of such telegraph, telephone, street railroad,
electric light or electric railroad poles or the wires strung or placed
underground within the limits of the city. (1989 Code: prior code § 8-4-1)
13.16.070: ERECTION; PERMIT; FILING MAPS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to set or erect in or on any
street or public alley in the city any telegraph, telephone, street railroad,
electric light or electric railroad pole or poles or place underground wires
without first having filed with the mayor a map showing the location of such
poles or underground wires and receiving a special permit therefor, such permit
may be issued by stamping the words "Approved this      day of            ,
20  " and signed by the mayor and city engineer; provided, however, that no
such permit for the erection of such poles or placing wire underground as
provided in this article shall be issued to any person, firm or corporation
unless such person, firm or corporation is a holder of a franchise from the
city, granting certain specified and privileged uses of such streets. (1989
Code: prior code § 8-4-2)
13.16.080: APPLICATION:
All applications for permits to erect poles or place underground wires must be
in writing addressed to the city engineer upon blanks furnished by the city
engineer. The application must be signed by the person desiring to erect the
poles therein specified. The application must be accompanied by a fee of one
dollar ($1.00) for each pole herein applied for or one dollar ($1.00) for each
one hundred feet (100') of underground wire; such application must also be
presented to and approved by the manager of the municipal power system, and be
filed in the office of the city engineer as a record of that office. (Prior
code § 8-4-3)
13.16.090: PERMITS NOT GRANTED WHEN:
No permit shall be granted for the erection of any pole or poles or placing any
wires underground in any of the streets of the city when the erection thereof
will in any manner interfere with any sewer connection, gas or water mains or
pipe or underground cables or with the distribution system of the municipal
electrical power system or which will in any way interfere with the free use of
the streets. (Prior code § 8-4-4)
13.16.100: POLES UNLAWFUL WHERE:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect poles of any
character or for any purpose in the center of any street in the city, and no
permit shall hereafter be granted to erect poles in the center of any street.
(Prior code § 8-4-5)
13.16.110: FIRE ALARMS OR POLICE, TELEGRAPH OR TELEPHONE SYSTEMS:
In case the corporation of the city desires at any time to put in operation any
fire alarm or police, telegraph or telephone system, it reserves to itself the
right to use the top, or a space near the top of any and all telegraph,
telephone or electric light poles, free of expense, for the purpose of
attaching wires thereto for use of the fire alarm or police telephone or
telegraph; and the granting of any franchise to any person to erect poles for
any of the purposes indicated in this section shall be with the above
reservation of privilege and right to the city. (Prior code § 8-4-6)
13.16.120: WIRES; SUPERVISION:
The manager of the municipal power system is authorized, empowered and directed
to have general supervision over the placing, stringing or attaching of
telegraph, telephone or electric light or other wires, so as to prevent fire,
accident or injury to person or property and to cause all such wires and
electric light to be so placed, constructed and guarded as not to cause fire,
accident or to endanger life or property; and any or all of such lights and
such wires or electrical apparatus now existing, as well as those hereafter
constructed and placed, shall be subject to such supervision. Whenever any
electrical wire or other piece of electrical apparatus is or shall become
defective by reason of improper of insufficient insulation or for other cause
becomes dangerous, the manager shall at once give written notice to the owner
or agent of the wire or electrical apparatus and direct that the same be
repaired or removed; and upon the owner's failure to repair or remove such
broken or defective wire within forty eight (48) hours of the service of the
written notice, the manager shall ask for action by the board of condemnation
under the provisions of chapter 2.26 of this code, or in the event of emergency
shall cause the wire or apparatus to be removed or repaired at the expense of
the owner or agent. (Prior code § 8-4-7)
13.16.130: POLES; FINISH AND SIZE:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall erect, maintain or place any pole or
poles in the streets for telegraph, telephone, street railroad, electric light
or electric railroad purposes shall have such pole or poles peeled and neatly
trimmed of knots, presenting a smooth appearance; provided, that no pole shall
be smaller than six inches (6") in diameter at the top. (Prior code § 8-4-8)
13.16.140: WIRES; HEIGHT:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to attach or maintain any
telegraph, telephone or electric light, electric or power wire to any pole in
the streets of the city at a distance of less than twenty two feet (22') from
the ground at all points where the wires overhang any part of the street,
provided trolley wires shall not be less than twenty feet (20') from the street
grade. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to attach electric
light and power wires on the same cross arm with telegraph, telephone or other
signal wires; and when placed on the same pole with such wires the distance
between the two (2) inside pins of each cross arm shall be not less than twenty
four inches (24") for circuits operating at a potential to ground not exceeding
three hundred (300) volts and shall not be less than thirty inches (30") for
higher potential; provided, that cross arm carrying such other wires must be at
least thirty six inches (36") from cross arms previously attached. (Prior code
§ 8-4-9)
13.16.150: LINE WIRES; SPECIFICATIONS:
Line wires must be so placed that moisture cannot form a cross connection
between them; must not be less than twelve inches (12") apart except when in
conduit or multiple conductor cable; must not be in contact with any substance
other than their insulating supports; must be at least eight feet (8') above
the highest point of roofs over which they pass, or to which they are attached;
all roof structures must be substantially constructed. Wherever feasible, wires
crossing buildings should be supported on poles independent of the building.
(Prior code § 8-4-10)
13.16.160: OVERHEAD WIRES:
All overhead service wires shall be of approved weatherproof or rubber coating;
shall be employed on single wires and approved rubber covered wire on multiple
conductors or cable. Wires shall not be smaller than no. 10, provided span from
pole to building is not over seventy five feet (75'); if distance is greater,
size must be increased in proportion to the distance. (Prior code § 8-4-11)
13.16.170: WIRES ON EXTERIOR OF BUILDING:
   A.   All wires or cables on the exterior of buildings, where exposed to
moisture, shall be supported on petticoat insulators placed at intervals not
exceeding fifteen feet (15'); this interval being decreased if wires are
subject to disturbance. The insulators shall be so designed or located as to
hold individual wires, at least twelve inches (12") apart and at least two
inches (2") from the surface wired over; provided, however, that brackets,
racks, supports, or insulators especially approved for the location may be used
if they separate individual wires at least six inches (6") and are placed at
intervals not exceeding seven feet (7').
   B.   Wires not exposed to the weather may be supported on glass or porcelain
knobs placed at intervals not exceeding four and one-half feet (41/2') and
retaining the wires at least one inch (1") from the surface wired over. All
wires must be so spliced or joined so as to be both mechanically and
electrically secure, without solder, and all splices made within three feet
(3') of any building or woodwork shall then be soldered. All joints must then
be covered with an insulation equal to that on the conductors. (Prior code § 8-
4-12)
13.16.180: CONSTANT POTENTIAL LINES OVER TWO THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED VOLTS:
Every reasonable precaution must be taken in arranging route so as to avoid
exposure to contacts with other electric circuits. On existing lines where
there is a liability to contact, the route shall be changed by mutual agreement
between the parties in interest wherever possible. (Prior code 8-4-13)
13.16.190: ELECTRIC LIGHT WIRES CROSSING OTHER WIRES:
Whenever it is necessary for wires crossing other wires of a different
potential, if possible the higher potential should be carried above the lower
potential wires and the poles of both lines shall be extra heavy and of
substantial construction, and under all conditions there shall be at least
three feet (3') between such wires and where possible the lines so built and
constructed that should a wire of the upper line break at the pin or become
detached it cannot in falling come in contact with the wires below. If nets or
other similar devices are employed, the nets or devices shall be grounded and
all ground wires shall be of a size that will easily carry the full current of
the wires of the highest potential. (Prior code § 8-4-14)
13.16.200: HIGH POTENTIAL LINES NEAR BUILDINGS:
Where it is necessary to carry high potential wires near buildings, they must
be of such a height or distance from the building as not to interfere with
firemen in event of fire; if within twenty five feet (25') of building, they
must be at a height not less than that of the projecting cornice or other
projections; if closer than twenty five feet (25') the line must be raised two
feet (2') above the cornice or projection for every five feet (5') closer than
the twenty five foot (25') limit. (Prior code § 8-4-15)
13.16.210: TRANSFORMERS:
   A.   No oil transformer shall be placed within or attached to any building
other than a central station or a substation except by special permission of
the manager of the municipal power system and the inspector of electric wiring.
   B.   No air cooled transformer operating at a potential exceeding two
hundred (200) volts shall be placed within or attached to any building in the
city other than the central station or a substation. (Prior code § 8-4-16)
13.16.220: APPARATUS TO BE REMOVED WHEN:
The manager of the municipal power system shall give written notice to the
owner or owners or their agents, in all cases where any wire or wires have
become defective and dangerous to life or property, to remove or replace such
wires with new wire. If such notice is not complied with, the manager shall
request action by the board of condemnation under the provisions of
chapter 2.26 of this code, or in emergency cases shall cause all dead wires,
unused poles or electric apparatus on the outside of buildings or in the
streets or alleys to be removed at the expense of the owner or owners of the
wires, poles or apparatus. (Prior code § 8-4-17)
13.16.230: WIRES TO BE DISCONNECTED WHEN:
Every person, firm or corporation owning or controlling electric wires and
apparatus for the transmission of light, heat or power, shall in time of fire,
or in case of severe storm, wherein the lines or property of the citizens of
the city may be endangered by the operation of such wires and apparatus, upon
the request of the manager of the municipal power system, the mayor or the
chief of the fire department or such chief's deputy, disconnect such wires or
apparatus as are designated by such officials. (Prior code § 8-4-18)
13.16.240: INTERFERENCE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person except under the direction of the manager of the
municipal power system to interfere with any part of such city electric system
either by making connections or disconnections with such system or otherwise.
(Prior code § 8-4-19)
CHAPTER 13.20
LOGAN TRANSIT DISTRICT
SECTION:
13.20.010: Vehicle And Structure Prohibitions
13.20.020: Prohibited Conduct
13.20.030: Failure To Pay Fares
13.20.040: Public Forum
13.20.050: Prohibited Speech Activities
13.20.060: Permissible Noncommercial Speech Activities
13.20.070: Violation; Penalties
13.20.010: VEHICLE AND STRUCTURE PROHIBITIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to place, move or park any structure or vehicle
within fifteen feet (15') of any Logan transit district terminal, shelter, sign
or other such structure without a valid, current permit issued by the transit
department.
   A.   For purposes of this section, "vehicle" means and includes any
motorized vehicle and every device propelled by human power upon which a person
may ride.
   B.   This section shall not be construed to take away the right of any
person to operate a vehicle along designated roadways. (Ord. 92-17 § 1, 1992)
13.20.020: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any passenger or occupant, while aboard a Logan transit
district vehicle or inside or within fifteen feet (15') of a terminal or
shelter owned or operated by the Logan transit district to:
   A.   Smoke or carry lighted or smoldering a pipe, cigar or cigarette;
   B.   Consume or distribute food or drink;
   C.   Spit;
   D.   Discard litter to a place other than in a designated trash receptacle;
   E.   Play any radio, tape recorder or similar instruments, unless the same
is connected to an earphone that limits the sound to the individual user;
   F.   Carry or transmit any highly flammable liquids, acid, explosives,
fireworks or any other similar substance or item with the high propensity to
burn, explode or emit dangerous fumes;
   G.   Carry, lead or accompany any live animal, reptile, bird or other like
thing unless the live animal, reptile, bird or other like thing is properly and
securely packaged. The packaging allowed by this section must be small enough
that it does not obstruct or unreasonably disturb other passengers or bus
operators. It shall not be unlawful under this section for a disabled passenger
to be accompanied by a guide dog properly harnessed and under the control of
the disabled passenger;
   H.   Place or store any package, box or case in the aisleway of a Logan
transit district bus;
   I.   Stand in front of the white line marked on the forward and end of the
floor of any Logan transit district bus, or otherwise conduct himself/herself
in such manner as to obstruct the vision or function of the vehicle operator;
   J.   Board any Logan transit district bus through the rear exit door, unless
so directed by an employee or agent of the Logan transit district;
   K.   Refuse to leave a Logan transit district bus, terminal or shelter after
having been ordered to do so by the operator or other designated agent of the
Logan transit district;
   L.   Run, climb through windows or on seats, obstruct passage, or otherwise
endanger a passenger;
   M.   Wear or use roller skates, skateboards, baby carriages or strollers
that are not readily collapsible, wagons or carts, unless permitted by
operator;
   N.   Walk with bare feet onto or off of a Logan transit district vehicle in
service;
   O.   Ride on top of or on the side of any vehicle;
   P.   Mark, cut, scratch or draw on any Logan transit district vehicles
structure or sign;
   Q.   It is unlawful, except in an emergency, for any person while aboard a
Logan transit district vehicle in service to open, stop, impede or interfere
with the doors of the vehicle, or otherwise obstruct the operation of other
transit vehicles or transit facilities. (Ord. 92-17 § 1, 1992)
13.20.030: FAILURE TO PAY FARES:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly board a passenger vehicle of the
Logan transit district which is transporting passengers in regular route
service, without paying the established fare or board without presenting a
valid transfer or pass for transportation on a public passenger vehicle. (Ord.
92-17 § 1, 1992)
13.20.040: PUBLIC FORUM:
Logan transit district buses and bus terminals or shelters or the distance
within fifteen feet (15') from any Logan transit district facility or enclosure
are not a "public forum". (Ord. 92-17 § 1, 1992)
13.20.050: PROHIBITED SPEECH ACTIVITIES:
The following types of speech and activities are prohibited in the Logan
transit district buses, inside or within fifteen feet (15') of any terminal,
shelters or other structures owned or operated by the Logan transit district:
   A.   All commercial speech, including, but not limited to, media of
advertisement or any sale or attempt to sell any item or service;
   B.   All noncommercial speech where any member of the apparent intended
audience has expressed verbally or otherwise that the speech is unwanted;
   C.   Post any signs, advertisements, circulars or printed material, set up
any tables or other portable equipment, or leave any leaflets or other printed
materials unattended. (Ord. 92-17 § 1, 1992)
13.20.060: PERMISSIBLE NONCOMMERCIAL SPEECH ACTIVITIES:
Noncommercial speech activities are allowed between consenting individuals or
entities so long as the speech is conducted in a conversational tone and does
not include chanting, dancing, shouting, outcries or the use of any device for
voice amplification, or any other sound device, including musical instruments.
(Ord. 92-17 § 1, 1992)
13.20.070: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
civil penalty. Any penalty assessed herein may be in addition to such other
penalties as may be provided elsewhere in this code. Civil penalties shall be
imposed as follows:
   A.   Thirty five dollars ($35.00) for the first violation;
   B.   Sixty dollars ($60.00) for the second violation within two (2) years of
any prior violation;
   C.   One hundred ten dollars ($110.00) for a third or further violation
within two (2) years of any prior violation;
   D.   Any penalties that are paid within five (5) normal working days from
the date of receipt of notice of the violation shall be reduced by the sum of
ten dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 92-17 § 1, 1992)
TITLE 14
RESERVED
 
TITLE 15
BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 15.04
BUILDING CODE 1
SECTION:
15.04.010: Adoption
15.04.020: Definitions
15.04.030: Fees
 
Notes
1 1. Prior history: Prior code §§ 6-4-1(a), (b), (c), 6-4-2, 6-4-3, 6-4-4; 1989
  Code.
15.04.010: ADOPTION:
   A.   For the purpose of providing minimum standards to safeguard life or
limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the
design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy, location and
maintenance of the buildings and structures and certain equipment within the
state, pursuant to chapter 56, title 58 of Utah Code Annotated, and
administrative rule making authority, the state of Utah through the Utah
uniform building codes commission, has adopted statewide uniform technical
construction codes, including amendments. The building code, including any
amendments that have been or may be made as adopted herein, together with the
administration sections of the code, is hereby fully incorporated as if set out
at length herein, and from the effective date of this chapter, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Pursuant to section 10-3-711, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended,
the building code is available for use and examination by the public in the
city recorder's office. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.04.020: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Whenever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the building code, it shall
mean city of Logan, Utah.
   B.   Whenever the words "department of building safety" or "code enforcement
agency" are used in the building code, they shall mean the building safety
division of the department of community development, city of Logan. (Ord. 05-
110 § 2, 2005)
15.04.030: FEES:
Building permit fees shall be based on the total valuation of the proposed
project as set forth in and adopted by resolution. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
CHAPTER 15.06
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE (ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY)
SECTION:
15.06.010: Adoption
15.06.020: Definitions
15.06.030: Fees
15.06.010: ADOPTION:
   A.   For the purpose of providing minimum standards to safeguard life or
limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the
design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy, location and
maintenance of the buildings and structures and certain equipment within the
state, pursuant to chapter 56, title 58 of Utah Code Annotated, and
administrative rule making authority, the state of Utah through the Utah
uniform building codes commission, has adopted statewide uniform technical
construction codes, including amendments. The residential building code, as
adopted herein, together with the administration sections of the code, is
hereby fully incorporated as if set out at length herein, and from the
effective date of this chapter, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Pursuant to section 10-3-711, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended,
the building code is available for use and examination by the public in the
city recorder's office. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.06.020: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Whenever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the code, it shall mean
city of Logan, Utah.
   B.   Whenever the words "department of building safety" or "code enforcement
agency" are used in the residential building code, they shall mean the building
safety division of the department of community development, city of Logan.
(Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.06.030: FEES:
Building permit fees shall be based on the total valuation of the proposed
project as set forth in sections
15.04.030, 15.08.020, 15.12.030 and 15.16.030 of this title and as is set forth
in and adopted by resolution. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
CHAPTER 15.08
ELECTRICAL CODE 1
SECTION:
15.08.010: Adoption
15.08.020: Fees
 
Notes
  1. Prior history: Prior code §§ 8-1-1, 8-1-2, 8-1-3, 8-1-4, 8-1-5, 8-1-6, 8-1-7,
1 8-1-8, 8-1-9, 8-1-10, 8-1-11, 8-1-12, 8-2-1(a), (b), (c), 8-3-1, 8-3-2, 8-3-3,
  8-3-4, 8-3-5, 8-3-6, 8-3-7, 8-3-8; 1989 Code.
15.08.010: ADOPTION:
   A.   For the purpose of providing minimum standards to safeguarding persons
and property from hazards arising from the use of electricity within the state
pursuant to chapter 56, title 58 of Utah Code Annotated, and administrative
rule making authority, the state of Utah through the Utah uniform building
codes commission, has adopted statewide uniform technical construction codes,
including amendments. The national electrical code, as adopted herein, is
hereby fully incorporated, as if set out at length herein, and from the
effective date of this chapter, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Pursuant to section 10-3-711, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended,
the national electrical code is available for use and examination by the public
in the city recorder's office. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.08.020: FEES:
Electrical permit fees shall be as set forth in and adopted by resolution.
(Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
CHAPTER 15.12
MECHANICAL AND FUEL GAS CODES 1
SECTION:
15.12.010: Adoption
15.12.020: Definitions
15.12.030: Fees
 
Notes
1 1. Prior history: Prior code §§ 6-8-1, 6-8-2, 6-8-3, 6-8-4, 6-8-5; 1989 Code;
  Ord. 91-33 § 1, 1991.
15.12.010: ADOPTION:
   A.   For the purpose of providing minimum standards to safeguard life or
limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the
design, construction, installation, quality of materials, location, operation
and maintenance or use of heating, ventilating, cooling, refrigeration systems,
incinerators and other miscellaneous heat producing appliances within the
state, pursuant to chapter 56, title 58 of Utah Code Annotated, and
administrative rule making authority, the state of Utah through the Utah
uniform building codes commission, has adopted statewide uniform technical
construction codes, including amendments. The mechanical code and fuel gas
code, together with the administration sections of the codes, are hereby fully
incorporated as if set out at length herein, and from the effective date of
this chapter, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate
limits of the city.
   B.   Pursuant to section 10-3-711, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended,
the mechanical code and fuel gas code are available for use and examination by
the public in the city recorder's office. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.12.020: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Whenever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the mechanical code or fuel
gas code, it shall mean city of Logan, Utah.
   B.   Whenever the words "department of building safety" or "code enforcement
agency" are used in the mechanical code and fuel gas code, they shall mean the
building safety division of the department of community development, city of
Logan. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.12.030: FEES:
Mechanical permit fees shall be as set forth in and adopted by resolution.
(Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
CHAPTER 15.16
PLUMBING CODE 1
SECTION:
15.16.010: Adoption
15.16.020: Definition
15.16.030: Fees
 
Notes
1 1. Prior history: Prior code §§ 6-10-1; 1989 Code.
15.16.010: ADOPTION:
   A.   For the purpose of providing minimum requirements and standards for the
protection of the public health, sanitation, safety and welfare by regulation
of the erection, installation, alteration, addition, repair, relocation,
replacement, and maintenance or use of any plumbing system, within the state,
pursuant to chapter 56, title 58 of Utah Code Annotated, and administrative
rule making authority, the state of Utah through the Utah uniform building
codes commission, has adopted statewide uniform technical construction codes,
including amendments. The plumbing code is hereby fully incorporated, as
adopted herein, as if set out at length herein, and from the effective date of
this chapter, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate
limits of the city.
   B.   Pursuant to section 10-3-711, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended,
the international plumbing code is available for use and examination by the
public in the city recorder's office. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.16.020: DEFINITION:
Whenever the words "administrative authority" are used in the plumbing code,
they shall mean the building safety division of the department of community
development. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.16.030: FEES:
Plumbing permit fees shall be as set forth in and adopted by resolution. (Ord.
05-110 § 2, 2005)
CHAPTER 15.18
MANUFACTURED HOUSING CODES AND RECOGNIZED STANDARDS
SECTION:
15.18.010: Adoption
15.18.020: Definitions
15.18.030: Fees
15.18.040: Manufactured Home Or Mobile Home Park Installation Regulations
15.18.050: Manufactured Home Installation As Real Property
15.18.010: ADOPTION:
For the purpose of providing minimum requirements and standards for the
protection of the public health, sanitation, safety and welfare by regulation
of the erection, installation, setup, alteration, addition, repair, relocation,
replacement, and maintenance or use of any manufactured housing, the federal
manufactured housing construction and safety standards act (HUD code) as
promulgated by the department of housing and urban development and published in
the federal register as set forth in 24 CFR parts 3280 and 3282 as revised, and
NCSBCS A225.1 manufactured home installations promulgated by the national
conference of states on building codes and standards (NCSBCS), including any
amendments that have been adopted pursuant to chapter 56, title 58 of Utah Code
Annotated, and administrative rule making authority, the state of Utah has
adopted statewide uniform technical construction codes, is hereby adopted. The
above manufactured housing codes and standards are hereby fully incorporated,
as adopted above, as if set out at length herein, and from the effective date
of this chapter, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.18.020: DEFINITIONS:
MANUFACTURED HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit constructed on or
after June 15, 1976, according to the federal home construction and safety
standards act of 1974 (HUD code), in one or more sections, which, in traveling
mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more
in length, or when erected on site, is four hundred (400) or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems. All manufactured homes constructed on or after June 15, 1976, shall be
identifiable by the manufacturer's data plate bearing the date the unit was
manufactured and a HUD label attached to the exterior of the home certifying
the home was manufactured to HUD standards.
MOBILE HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit built prior to June 15,
1976, in accordance with a state mobile home code which existed prior to the
federal manufactured housing and safety standards act (HUD code). (Ord. 05-110
§ 2, 2005)
15.18.030: FEES:
Building permit fees shall be based on the total valuation of the proposed
project as set forth in sections
15.04.030, 15.08.020, 15.12.030 and 15.16.030 of this title and as is set forth
in and adopted by resolution. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.18.040: MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME PARK INSTALLATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Manufactured housing shall be limited to use as a single-family
dwelling unit.
   B.   Manufactured housing entering the city shall be limited to unaltered,
undamaged, used and new manufactured homes meeting the city's snow load
requirements or shall have a protective structure built over the home which
meets the building code and the city's snow load requirements.
   C.   Accessory structures associated with the manufactured home shall be
self-supported and constructed to the requirements of the building code,
residential code and/or the HUD code for manufactured housing. All accessory
structure must be located behind all required setbacks.
   D.   Permits are required for the moving, installation, repair of
manufactured homes and all accessory structures, unless exempted from permits
by other city codes. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.18.050: MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION AS REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Manufactured homes shall be limited to use as a residential dwelling
unit.
   B.   Manufactured homes installed as real property shall be installed on a
permanent footing and foundation meeting the requirements of the building code
and/or residential code.
   C.   Manufactured homes shall be new and shall meet the city's snow load
requirements. Manufactured homes shall have a minimum twenty foot (20') width.
(Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
CHAPTER 15.20
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
15.20.010: Adoption
15.20.020: Definition
15.20.030: Code Construed In Light Of State Statutes
15.20.010: ADOPTION:
   A.   For the purpose of providing a just, equitable and practicable method,
to be cumulative with and in addition to, any other remedy provided by the
building code or otherwise available by law, whereby buildings or structures
which from any cause endanger the life, limb, health, sanitation, property,
safety or welfare of the general public or their occupants may be required to
be repaired, vacated or demolished, the entire current edition of the
international property maintenance code is hereby adopted as promulgated by the
International Code Council. The international property maintenance code is
hereby fully incorporated as if set out at length herein, and from the
effective date of this chapter, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Pursuant to section 10-3-711, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended,
the international property maintenance code is available for use and
examination by the public in the city recorder's office.
   C.   The following sections are hereby revised:
         Section 302.4 Insert "six" (6) inches.
         Section 302.4 Insert the following applications and exceptions:
   This section applies to the following: lots in a platted subdivision
(residential, commercial or industrial); vacant lots within platted residential
subdivisions in which buildings have been erected upon 50 percent or more of
the lots; parkstrip areas; or on parcels of land along improved streets in
common usage within the city, to a depth of 200 feet or the depth of the
ownership, whichever is the lesser.
   This section does not apply to the following: land used for agricultural
purposes such as small grain crops, alfalfa or other similar grass/hay crop;
portions of a lot used for flower gardens, shrubbery or vegetable gardens; city
maintained parks, trails and open space areas; naturally wooded area or
regulated wetlands; or areas designated as undeveloped open space.
(Ord. 11-54, 2011: Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.20.020: DEFINITION:
Whenever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the international property
maintenance code, it shall mean city of Logan, Utah. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.20.030: CODE CONSTRUED IN LIGHT OF STATE STATUTES:
   A.   The international property maintenance code shall be construed so as to
give effect to the statutes of the state of Utah which authorize cities to
abate dangerous buildings and shall not be construed as to require the city to
follow a more restrictive procedure than that set forth in state statute.
   B.   The city may attach the costs of abating a dangerous building pursuant
to this code to the property taxes as provided by state statute. (Ord. 05-110 §
2, 2005)
CHAPTER 15.22
APPEALS PROCEDURE AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
15.22.010: Appeal Petition
15.22.020: Appeals Board
15.22.030: Appointment
15.22.040: Organization
15.22.050: Powers
15.22.060: Appeals From The Appeals Board
15.22.070: Powers And Duties Of The Building Safety Division
15.22.080: Penalties
15.22.090: Enforcement
15.22.010: APPEAL PETITION:
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made
by the building official relative to the application and interpretations of the
technical codes, a petition shall be filed with the building inspection
division. The appeal shall be taken by filing a written notice of appeal, in
letter form, to the board of appeals. Upon filing of any petition to the
appeals board, the petitioner shall pay to the city a fee. Such fee shall be as
is set forth in and adopted by resolution. The appeals board shall consider no
petition until such fee has been paid. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.22.020: APPEALS BOARD:
There shall be one appeals board for all of the technical construction codes in
this title that make provisions for such a board. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.22.030: APPOINTMENT:
   A.   The mayor may appoint a five (5) member appeals board. The terms of the
members of the board shall be on a case by case basis or for such terms as the
mayor shall designate.
   B.   Any vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member
whose office becomes vacant. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.22.040: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   The appeals board shall elect a chairman and vice chairman from among
themselves.
   B.   The appeals board may adopt rules of policy and procedure for the
governing of meetings, its members and the performance of its duties. (Ord. 05-
110 § 2, 2005)
15.22.050: POWERS:
The appeals board shall have only those powers expressly set forth in the
adopted codes under which it is acting. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.22.060: APPEALS FROM THE APPEALS BOARD:
Either the city or the other party may appeal any decision of the appeals board
to the district court. Such appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days of
the rendering of a written decision by the board. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.22.070: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BUILDING SAFETY DIVISION:
   A.   The building safety division is hereby authorized to inspect or cause
to be inspected all buildings and structures in the course of construction,
modification, or repair.
   B.   The building safety division shall enforce all of the provisions of
this title, employing all legal means available to do so. The chief building
official is also an enforcement official and may designate any other division
employee as an enforcement official.
   C.   Any employee designated as an enforcement official is authorized to
enter upon any property or premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the
codes; any applicable city or state codes; or any conditions imposed by the
planning commission, board of adjustment, or the planning and zoning division
are being obeyed and to make any examinations and surveys as may be necessary
in the performance of the employee's enforcement duties. This may include the
taking of photographs, samples, or other physical evidence.
   D.   All inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys shall be done in a
reasonable manner based upon cause. If the property owner or person responsible
for the property refuses to allow the employee to enter the property, the
employee may obtain and execute a search warrant. The building safety division
may suspend or delay action on a building permit or other necessary approval if
the person responsible for the property refuses to allow an inspection. (Ord.
05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.22.080: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided herein or by state or federal law, a violation of
this title shall be a class B misdemeanor. Each day that the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense, and
shall be punishable as such. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.22.090: ENFORCEMENT:
Unless otherwise provided, this title may be enforced through the
administrative code enforcement hearing program established in title 17 of this
code, or by filing civil or criminal actions as provided by law. The city has
sole discretion to decide whether to file a civil or criminal case for a
violation. The city may file both, or one or the other. The possibility of an
administrative remedy pursuant to title 17 of this code shall in no way
interfere with the city's right to prosecute violations of this title as
criminal offenses, or to seek any civil remedy to enjoin, prevent, or abate the
violation. The city may use any of the remedies available under the law in both
civil litigation and criminal prosecution. If the city chooses to file both
civil and criminal charges for the same violation on the same day, no civil
fines shall be assessed, but all other remedies shall be available. (Ord. 05-
110 § 2, 2005)
CHAPTER 15.24
MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING RESTRICTIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 05-110 § 1, 2005)
CHAPTER 15.25
TENANT/LANDLORD RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
15.25.010: Short Title
15.25.020: Exclusions From Application Of Chapter
15.25.030: Identification Of Owner And Agents
15.25.040: Property Owner To Deliver Possession Of Dwelling Unit
15.25.050: Property Owner To Maintain The Premises And Each Dwelling Unit
15.25.060: Tenant To Maintain Dwelling Unit
15.25.070: Rules And Regulations
15.25.080: Access
15.25.090: Property Owner And Tenant Remedies For Abuse Of Access
15.25.100: Failure To Deliver Possession
15.25.110: Repair Of Specified Failures
15.25.120: Tenant Repair And Deduct
15.25.130: Retaliatory Conduct Prohibited
15.25.010: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the LOGAN CITY FIT PREMISES ordinance. This
chapter shall also be known as title 15, chapter 25 of this code. It may be
cited and pleaded under either designation. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
15.25.020: EXCLUSIONS FROM APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
The following arrangements are not governed by this chapter:
   A.   Residence at a detention, medical, geriatric, educational, counseling,
or religious institution;
   B.   Occupancy under a contract of sale of a dwelling unit if the occupant
is the purchaser;
   C.   Occupancy by a member of a fraternal or social organization in a
building operated for the benefit of the organization;
   D.   Transient occupancy in a hotel or motel 1 , except that single room
occupancy units ("SRO") shall be governed by this chapter. "SRO" means an
existing housing unit with one combined sleeping and living room of at least
seventy (70) square feet, but of not more than two hundred twenty (220) square
feet, where the usual tenancy or occupancy of the same unit by the same person
or persons is for a period of longer than one week. Such units may include a
kitchen and a private bath; and
   E.   Occupancy by an owner of a condominium unit. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
 
Notes
1 1. Or lodgings subject to UCA § 59-12-301.
15.25.030: IDENTIFICATION OF OWNER AND AGENTS:
   A.   A property owner or any person authorized to enter into an oral or
written rental agreement on the property owner's behalf shall disclose to the
tenant, in writing, at or before the commencement of the tenancy, the name,
address, and telephone number of:
      1.   The owner or person authorized to manage the premises; and
      2.   A local person authorized to act for and on behalf of the owner for
the purpose of receiving notices and demands and performing the property
owner's obligations under this chapter and the rental agreement if the owner or
manager resides outside Cache County.
   B.   A person who enters into a rental agreement and fails to comply with
the requirements of this section becomes an agent of the property owner for the
purposes of:
      1.   Receipt of notices under this chapter; and
      2.   Performing the obligations of the property owner under this chapter
and under the rental agreement.
   C.   The information required to be furnished by this section shall be kept
current. This section is enforceable against any successor property owner,
owner, or manager.
   D.   Every rental property with more than one unit rented without a written
agreement shall have a notice posted in a conspicuous place with the name,
address, and telephone number of the owner or manager and local agent as
required by subsection A of this section. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
15.25.040: PROPERTY OWNER TO DELIVER POSSESSION OF DWELLING UNIT:
   A.   At the commencement of any rental of a unit, the property owner shall
provide to the tenant:
      1.   A written summary of this chapter and the state law dealing with
residential renter's deposits 1 . The city shall prepare and make available a
written summary of this chapter and the state law that fairly sets forth its
material provisions.
      2.   An inventory of the condition of the premises and all appliances and
furnishings.
      3.   A copy of the lease or rental agreement and rules and regulations,
if written.
      4.   Any current notice by any utility provider to the property owner to
terminate water, gas, electrical, or other utility service to the dwelling
unit; the proposed date of termination; and any current uncorrected deficiency
list or notice from any government entity.
   B.   By explicit written agreement, a property owner and a tenant may
establish a procedure whereby the tenant notifies the property owner of needed
repairs, makes those repairs, and defines how the repairs will be paid.
   C.   A property owner may allocate any duties to the tenant by explicit
written agreement. Such agreement must be clear and specific and boxed, in bold
type, or underlined. If the property owner fails to deliver possession of the
dwelling unit to the tenant as promised in the rental agreement, rent abates
until possession is delivered, and the tenant may terminate the rental
agreement by written notice to the property owner and recover all prepaid rent
and security deposits. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 57-17-1 et seq.
15.25.050: PROPERTY OWNER TO MAINTAIN THE PREMISES AND EACH DWELLING UNIT:
A property owner shall:
   A.   Comply with the requirements of applicable building, housing, and
health codes and city ordinances and not rent the premises unless they are
safe, sanitary, and fit for human occupancy;
   B.   Maintain the structural integrity of the building;
   C.   Maintain floors in safe condition;
   D.   Provide exits, emergency egress, light, and ventilation in compliance
with applicable codes;
   E.   Maintain stairways, porches, walkways, and fire escapes in sound
condition;
   F.   Provide smoke detectors and fire extinguishers as required by Logan
City fire department;
   G.   Provide operable sinks, toilets, tubs, and/or showers;
   H.   Provide heating facilities as required by code;
   I.   Provide running water;
   J.   In common areas provide adequate hall and stairway lighting;
   K.   Maintain floors, walls, and ceilings in good condition;
   L.   Supply window screens where required;
   M.   Maintain the foundation, masonry, chimneys, water heater, and furnace
in good working condition;
   N.   Prevent the accumulation of stagnant water;
   O.   Maintain in good and safe working order and condition all electrical,
plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, and other facilities and appliances
supplied by the property owner as required by applicable codes;
   P.   Supply electricity and hot water at all times, and heat during at least
the months of October through April and as weather conditions might otherwise
reasonably warrant, except where the dwelling unit is so constructed that
electricity, heat, or hot water is within the exclusive control of the tenant
and supplied by a direct public utility connection;
   Q.   Assist tenant in maintaining premises free of insects and rodents, and
assist tenant with pest control measures when necessary;
   R.   Not unreasonably interrupt or disconnect utility service;
   S.   Provide standard functioning lock set to exterior doors and furnish
keys to tenants as required by applicable codes. Additional security may be
provided by tenant with owner's written consent;
   T.   Maintain the dwelling unit in a reasonably insulated and weathertight
condition as required by applicable codes;
   U.   Provide for and protect each tenant's peaceful enjoyment of the
premises;
   V.   Ensure that repairs, decorations, alterations, or improvements or
exhibiting the dwelling unit shall not unreasonably interfere with the tenant's
right to quiet enjoyment of the premises;
   W.   Provide a mailbox;
   X.   Provide separate meters for each tenant for gas and electricity or
include charges for utility services in the rent; and
   Y.   Provide appropriate garbage receptacles for timely garbage removal as
provided by the city. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
15.25.060: TENANT TO MAINTAIN DWELLING UNIT:
A tenant shall:
   A.   Comply with all appropriate requirements of the rental agreement and
applicable provisions of building, housing, and health codes;
   B.   Maintain the premises occupied in a clean and safe condition and not
unreasonably burden any common area;
   C.   Dispose of all garbage and other waste in a clean and safe manner;
   D.   Maintain all plumbing fixtures in as sanitary a condition as the
fixtures permit and avoid obstructing sinks, toilets, tubs, showers, and other
plumbing drains;
   E.   Use all electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, and other facilities
and appliances in a reasonable manner;
   F.   Not destroy, deface, damage, impair, or remove any part of the premises
or knowingly permit any person to do so;
   G.   Promptly inform the property owner or his agent of any defective
conditions or problems at the premises;
   H.   Not interfere with the peaceful enjoyment of the residential rental
unit of another renter or adjacent property owner;
   I.   Upon vacating, restore the premises to their initial condition except
for reasonable wear and tear or conditions deemed the responsibility of the
property owner;
   J.   Be current on all payments required by the rental agreement and this
chapter;
   K.   Not increase the number of occupants above that specified in the rental
agreement without written permission of the owners;
   L.   Not modify or paint the premises without the express written permission
of the property owner/agent;
   M.   Dispose of oil, car batteries, and other hazardous waste materials away
from the rental premises and in a manner prescribed by federal and local laws;
and
   N.   Not require the owner to correct or remedy any condition caused by the
renter, the renter's family, or the renter's guests or invitees by
inappropriate use of the property during the rental term or any extension of
it. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
15.25.070: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
A property owner may adopt rules or regulations concerning the tenant's use and
occupancy of the premises, which become a part of the rental agreement, if they
apply to all tenants in the premises in a nondiscriminatory manner; do not
conflict with the lease, state law, or city ordinance; and are provided to the
tenant before the tenant enters into the rental agreement. Rules, regulations,
or lease terms can, by agreement between the parties, be more favorable to the
tenant than allowed by state law or city ordinance, but cannot be more
restrictive. Rules may be modified from time to time by the property owner.
However, no rule adopted after the commencement of any rental agreement shall
substantially modify the existing terms, conditions, or rules without written
consent of the tenant. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
15.25.080: ACCESS:
   A.   A tenant shall not unreasonably withhold consent to the property owner
to enter into the dwelling unit in order to make necessary or agreed
inspections, repairs, decorations, alterations, or improvements; or to exhibit
the dwelling unit to prospective purchasers, tenants, or work people.
   B.   A property owner may enter the dwelling unit without consent of the
tenant only in cases of emergency.
   C.   Except in cases of emergency, the property owner shall give the tenant
at least twenty four (24) hours' notice of plans to enter, and may enter only
between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., unless
otherwise agreed to by tenant.
   D.   A property owner has no other right of access except:
      1.   Pursuant to court order;
      2.   To make repairs requested by the tenant pursuant to sections
15.25.110 and 15.25.120 of this chapter; or
      3.   If the tenant has abandoned the premises as defined in section 78-
36-12(3), Utah Code Annotated, or any successor provision. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
15.25.090: PROPERTY OWNER AND TENANT REMEDIES FOR ABUSE OF ACCESS:
   A.   If the tenant refuses to allow lawful access, the property owner may
obtain injunctive relief to compel access or may terminate the rental agreement
and commence an eviction action. In either case, the property owner may recover
actual damages and reasonable attorney fees.
   B.   If the property owner makes an unlawful entry or makes repeated
unreasonable demands for entry which harass the tenant, the tenant may obtain
injunctive relief to prevent the recurrence of the conduct or terminate the
rental agreement and vacate the premises. In either case, the tenant may
recover the actual damages and reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
15.25.100: FAILURE TO DELIVER POSSESSION:
If the property owner fails to deliver possession of the dwelling unit to the
tenant as promised in the rental agreement, rent abates until possession is
delivered. Alternatively, the tenant may terminate the rental agreement by
written notice of the property owner and recover all prepaid rent and security
deposits. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
15.25.110: REPAIR OF SPECIFIED FAILURES:
In the event of the failures specified below, the property owner shall take
reasonable steps to begin repairing the failures, within the following
specified time periods after receipt of appropriate written notice of the
failure delivered to the person identified in subsection
15.25.030A2 of this chapter and complete the repairs with reasonable diligence.
   A.   Inoperable toilet, twenty four (24) hours.
   B.   Tub, shower, or kitchen and bathroom sink with inoperable drain or no
hot or cold water, forty eight (48) hours.
   C.   Inoperable refrigerator or cooking range or stove, forty eight (48)
hours.
   D.   Nonfunctioning heating (during a period where heat is reasonably
necessary) or electrical system, twenty four (24) hours.
   E.   Inoperable electric fixture, seventy two (72) hours.
   F.   Broken exterior door or inoperable or missing exterior door lock, forty
eight (48) hours.
   G.   Broken window with missing glass, ninety six (96) hours.
   H.   Inoperable exterior lighting, ninety six (96) hours.
   I.   Broken stair or balustrade, twenty four (24) hours.
   J.   Inoperable or missing smoke detector required by code, twenty four (24)
hours.
   K.   Inoperable required fire sprinkler system (if smoke detectors are not
present or operating), twenty four (24) hours.
   L.   Inoperable required fire sprinkler system (if smoke detectors are
installed and operable), ninety six (96) hours.
   M.   Broken or leaking water pipes causing an imminent threat to life,
safety, or health, twenty four (24) hours.
   N.   Other broken or leaking water pipes, seventy two (72) hours.
   O.   Disconnection of electrical, water, or natural gas service caused by
property owner, twenty four (24) hours.
The tenant shall grant the property owner reasonable access to perform the
repairs required in this section. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
15.25.120: TENANT REPAIR AND DEDUCT:
If the property owner fails to take reasonable steps to begin making the
repairs required by section
15.25.110 of this chapter within the specified times, and the tenant is current
on all rent and other payments to the property owner, the tenant may cause the
repairs to be made subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Tenant Caused Damages: The repair and deduct provisions of this section
shall not be applicable to any damages caused or repairs necessitated by
actions of the tenant or the tenant's invited guests or other occupants of the
dwelling unit.
   B.   Critical Repairs: If the repairs involve an inoperable toilet; lack of
heat during a period for which heat is required; broken or leaking water pipes
posing an immediate threat to life, safety, or health; a complete lack of
running water; or disconnected gas, electric, or water service, the tenant may,
upon the expiration of the notice period specified in section
15.25.110 of this chapter, cause the necessary repairs to be made.
      1.   In making such repairs, the tenant must use a licensed contractor if
such a licensed contractor is required by applicable building or housing codes.
      2.   If a licensed contractor is required for the work, the tenant shall
contract for the work to be done by the lowest bidder.
   C.   Noncritical Repairs: If the required repairs are not critical repairs
subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section, the tenant, after
the expiration of the notice time required by section
15.25.110 of this chapter, shall give the property owner or property owner's
agent identified in subsection
15.25.030A2 of this chapter a second written notice of intent to repair and
deduct. This second notice shall be either delivered and served personally upon
the property owner or agent or sent by both certified and regular mail.
      1.   The second notice shall state the nature of the problem, the date
the tenant sent the first notice required by section
15.25.110 of this chapter, and the intention of the tenant to cause the repairs
to be done and to deduct the cost from the rent if the property owner does not
make the repairs.
      2.   The property owner shall begin making the required repairs within
forty eight (48) hours (excluding holidays and weekends) after the hand
delivery of the second notice, or by the end of the second calendar day after
the date of mailing of the second notice, and complete the repairs with
reasonable diligence.
      3.   If the property owner has not begun the required repairs within the
time specified in subsection C2 of this section, the tenant may cause the
repairs to be made.
      4.   In making such repairs, the tenant must use a licensed contractor if
such a licensed contractor is required by applicable building or housing codes
for the work. The tenant shall obtain two (2) written bids for the work, and
shall contract for the work at the low bidder.
      5.   If a licensed contractor is not required for the work, the tenant
may do the work on his or her own, or contract for the work to be done at a
reasonable cost.
   D.   Deductible Amount: For any repairs made pursuant to this section, the
tenant may deduct from future rent the actual and reasonable cost of the
repairs performed up to a maximum deduction of four hundred dollars ($400.00)
per repair; provided, however, the tenant shall furnish all original bids and
paid receipts to the property owner. The maximum deduction for any one month
shall not exceed four hundred dollars ($400.00), regardless of the number or
cost of repairs.
   E.   Nontermination: The property owner may not terminate the tenant's
tenancy for the tenant's deduction of rent for repairs made pursuant to this
section, nor may the property owner terminate the tenancy until the tenant's
costs for repairs made under this section (not to exceed $400.00 per repair)
have been offset by deducted rent. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
15.25.130: RETALIATORY CONDUCT PROHIBITED:
   A.   Except as provided in this section and section 57-22-4, Utah Code
Annotated, a property owner may not terminate a rental agreement or bring or
threaten to bring an eviction action because the tenant has in good faith:
      1.   Complained of code violations at the premises to a government
agency, elected representative, or public official charged with responsibility
for enforcement of a building, housing, health, or similar code;
      2.   Complained of a building, housing, health, or similar code violation
or an illegal property owner practice to a community organization or the news
media;
      3.   Sought the assistance of a community organization or the news media
to remedy code violation or illegal property owner practice;
      4.   Requested that the property owner make repairs to the premises as
required by this chapter, a building or health code, other regulation, or the
residential rental agreement;
      5.   Become a member of a tenant's union or similar organization;
      6.   Testified in any court or administrative proceeding concerning the
condition of the premises; or
      7.   Exercised any right or remedy provided by law.
   B.   If the property owner or tenant violates any provision of this section,
the property owner or tenant may recover the greater of one hundred dollars
($100.00) or actual damages, and reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 98-42, 1998)
CHAPTER 15.26
UNIFORM HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
15.26.010: Adoption
15.26.020: Amendments
15.26.010: ADOPTION:
   A.   For the purpose of providing minimum standards to safeguard life or
limb, health, property, and public welfare by regulating and controlling the
use and occupancy, location, and maintenance of all residential buildings and
structures within the city, the entire 1997 edition of the uniform housing
code, as formulated by the International Conference of Building Officials, is
hereby adopted with such deletions, modifications, exceptions, and other
amendments as set forth in section
15.26.020 of this chapter. The uniform housing code, 1997 edition, as adopted
herein, is hereby fully incorporated as if set out herein in its entirety, with
the amendments as set forth in section
15.26.020 of this chapter; and, from the effective date of this chapter, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the
city.
   B.   Pursuant to section 10-3-711, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended,
the uniform housing code, 1997 edition, is available for use and examination by
the public in the office of the city recorder. (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
15.26.020: AMENDMENTS:
The uniform housing code, 1997 edition, is amended to read as follows:
   A.   Section 203 is amended by the addition of subsection 203.3 as follows:
203.3 Board. The housing advisory and appeals board described in this code
shall be the appeals board established in chapter 15.22 of the city of Logan,
municipal code "appeals procedure."
   B.   Section 1001.2, "Inadequate Sanitation", is amended by the addition of
subsection 16 as follows:
      16.   Lack of window screens on all openable windows.
   C.   Section 1001.8, "Faulty Weather Protection", is amended by the addition
of subsection 5 as follows:
      5.   Missing safety glazing from openings that require safety glazing.
   (Ord. 05-110 § 2, 2005)
CHAPTER 15.27
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
Article I. Purpose And Methods
15.27.010: Statutory Authorization
15.27.020: Findings Of Fact
15.27.030: Statement Of Purpose
15.27.040: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
Article II. Definitions
15.27.045: Words Defined
Article III. General Provisions
15.27.050: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
15.27.060: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
15.27.070: Establishment Of Development Permit
15.27.080: Compliance
15.27.090: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
15.27.100: Interpretation
15.27.110: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
Article IV. Administration
15.27.120: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
15.27.130: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
15.27.140: Permit Procedures
15.27.150: Variance Procedures
Article V. Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
15.27.160: General Standards
15.27.170: Specific Standards
15.27.180: Standards For Subdivision And Site Plan Proposals
15.27.190: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
15.27.200: Floodways
15.27.210: Critical Facilities
Article VI. Enforcement
15.27.220: Penalties For Noncompliance
15.27.230: Criminal Prosecution Right
ARTICLE I. PURPOSE AND METHODS
15.27.010: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Utah has in Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-
701 and 10-8-84 delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt regulations assigned to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizenry. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
15.27.020: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of city of Logan are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare; and
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-
21-2023)
15.27.030: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Protect and safeguard the welfare and safety of first responders should
an emergency response be needed; and
   H.   Assist potential buyers in recognizing when a property is located
within a flood area. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
15.27.040: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS
15.27.045: WORDS DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Unless
specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be
interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this
chapter its most reasonable application. Words used in the singular shall
include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular; words used in
the present tense shall include the future tense. The word "shall" is mandatory
and not discretionary. The word "may" is permissive. Words not defined in this
section shall be construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use
as defined in the latest edition of "Webster's Dictionary".
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation of surface water resulting from a flood
that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year. The
BFE is shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for zones AE, AH, A1-A30,
AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1- A30, AR/AH, AR/AO, V1-V30 and VE.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See Structure.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A facility necessary to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare during a flood. Critical facilities include, but are not limited
to, schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency operations
installations, water and wastewater treatment plants, electric power stations,
and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous materials or hazardous
waste (other than consumer products containing hazardous substances or
hazardous waste intended for household use.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers),
or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and b) adequately anchored so
as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, and D, “elevated building” also includes a building elevated by
means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30,
VE, or V, “elevated building” also includes a building otherwise meeting the
definition of “elevated building”, even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls met the standards of 44 CFR
section 60.3(e)(5).
ENCLOSURE: Enclosed walled-in areas below the lowest floor of an elevated
building. Enclosures below the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) may only be used for
building access, vehicle parking, and storage.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. “Existing
construction” may also be referred to as “existing structures”.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FILL: Earthen material, concrete, asphalt, or other material placed in a manner
to permanently or semi-permanently increase the elevation of an area.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has
been made available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map
(DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   C.   Mudflows which are proximately caused by flooding and are akin to a
river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally day lands areas, or
when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the
current.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of 44 CFR section 60.3 of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE:
   A.   A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured
roof, that is affixed to a permanent site;
   B.   A manufactured home (“a manufactured home,” also known as a mobile
home, is a structure: built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in
one or more sections, and affixed to a permanent foundation); or
   C.   A travel trailer without wheels, built on a chassis and affixed to a
permanent foundation, that is regulated under the community’s floodplain
management and building ordinances or laws.
SUBDIVISION The division of land into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, sites,
condominiums, rights of way, or divisions for the purpose of sale, lease, or
transfer or ownership.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain
management regulation.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR sections 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4),
(c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
ARTICLE III. GENERAL PROVISIONS
15.27.050: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
The chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA
within the jurisdiction of city of Logan. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03,
3-21-2023)
15.27.060: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood
Insurance Study For Cache County”, dated May 9, 2023, with accompanying flood
insurance rate maps and flood boundary-floodway maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any
revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter. City of Logan automatically adopts all FEMA effective flood
insurance rate maps and all FEMA effective flood insurance studies. (Ord. 11-
30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
15.27.070: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A special floodplain development permit for construction in the special flood
hazard area, shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
15.27.080: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 11-30, 2011)
15.27.090: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 11-30,
2011)
15.27.100: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 11-30, 2011)
15.27.110: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 11-30,
2011)
ARTICLE IV. ADMINISTRATION
15.27.120: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The city engineer is hereby appointed the floodplain administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management. (Ord. 11-30, 2011)
15.27.130: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building site,
including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   E.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the Utah state engineer, prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
federal emergency management agency.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
LMC §
15.27.060 of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review
and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data
available from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the
provisions of article V of this chapter.
   I.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood at any point within the community.
   J.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR section 65.12, the City Engineer may
approve certain development in zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community’s FIRM
which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one
foot (1'), provided that the City of Logan first applies for a conditional FIRM
revision through FEMA (conditional letter of map revision). (Ord. 11-30, 2011;
amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
15.27.140: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures, provided
by a registered professional land surveyor;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed, provided by a registered professional land
surveyor;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection
15.27.170 of this chapter;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      5.   Include a site plan showing the delineation of special flood hazard
areas, floodway boundaries, flood zones, base flood elevations, ground
elevations, proposed fill and excavation, and drainage patterns and facilities
as prepared by a registered professional land surveyor or professional
engineer;
      6.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection
15.27.130 of this chapter;
      7.   The Floodplain Administrator may waive the requirements under
Section 15.27.140.A.5 for accessory buildings less than 200 square feet in
size.
   B.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
15.27.150: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
The Land Use Appeal Board as established in Land Development Code Chapter 17.50
shall hear requests for variances from the requirements of this Ordinance or an
appeal of a decision made by the Floodplain Administrator in applying the
requirements of this Ordinance.
   A.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Land Use Appeal
Board may appeal such decision to District Court.
   B.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving a variance application or an appeal of a decision, and shall report
variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
   C.   Variance shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   D.   Variances may be issued for:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvements to be erected on a lot
of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the
relevant factors in LMC §
15.27.140(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      2.   The repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of
structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State
Inventory of Historic Places upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure, and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
   E.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
ordinance, the Land Use Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of
this ordinance (LMC §
15.27.030).
   F.   Prerequisites for granting variances.
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
ARTICLE V. PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
15.27.160: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities two feet (2') above the base flood elevation and
are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
   G.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord.
23-03, 3-21-2023)
15.27.170: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in LMC §
15.27.060, §
15.27.130, or §
15.27.180 of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated two feet (2') above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection as
proposed in LMC §
15.27.140.A.1 of this chapter, is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction - new construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall:
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated two feet (2')
above the base flood level; or
      2.   Be designed so that the structure and attendant utility and sanitary
facilities is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water for at least two feet (2') above the base flood level, and with
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   C.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated two feet (2') above the base flood elevation and anchored to
resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground
anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      2.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM be elevated on
a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is
elevated two feet (2') or above the base flood elevation and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days,
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of subsection
15.27.140 of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
“manufactured homes” in this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
15.27.180: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION AND SITE PLAN PROPOSALS:
   A.   All proposed preliminary and final development plans submitted for
individual parcel and subdivision developments (including manufactured home
parks) shall:
      1.   Meet floodplain development permit requirements of §
15.27.070, §
15.27.140, and Article 5.
      2.   Have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      3.   Have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      4.   Identify the base flood elevation and illustrate the floodway and
floodplain limits on all relevant documents.
         a.   If unknown or undetermined, a professional engineer registered in
the State of Utah shall calculate the base flood elevation and determine the
floodplain and floodway limits; said calculations and mapping to be performed
by means of a study or best available data,
            (1)   Lots and Parcels one acre or smaller in size shall not be
required to determine the base flood elevation or floodplain and floodway
limits (this exception does not apply to subdivisions, multi-family, commercial
or industrial developments, or manufactured home parks).
   B.   Residential building lots shall be provided with adequate buildable
area outside the floodway; and
   C.   Streets, sidewalks, parking areas, hardscape, or similar improvements
proposed to be constructed above existing grade shall be designed such that
there is no rise in the base flood elevation (BFE) that would affect existing
structures, adjoining properties, or expansion of the special flood hazard area
outside of the project boundaries. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-
2023)
15.27.190: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES):
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in LMC §
15.27.060 of this chapter, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These
areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to
three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the
path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following
provisions apply:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated two feet
(2') above the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM, or at
least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified.
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures:
      1.   Shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated two feet
(2') above the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM, or at
least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified; or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy up to at
least two feet (2') above the base flood level.
   C.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
section, as required in LMC §
15.27.140, are satisfied.
   D.   Require within zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord.
11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
15.27.200: FLOODWAYS:
Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in section
15.27.060 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since the
floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters
which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following
provisions shall apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If LMC § 15.27.200.A is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
of this article. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
15.27.210: CRITICAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Construction of new critical facilities shall, to the extent possible,
be located outside the limits of the 500-year floodplain.
   B.   Construction of new critical facilities in the regulatory floodplain
shall be permissible if no feasible alternative site is available, provided:
      1.   Critical facilities shall have the lowest floor elevated two feet
(2') above the base flood elevation or to the height of the 500-year flood,
whichever is higher. If there is no available data on the 500-year flood, the
permit applicants shall develop the needed data in accordance with FEMA mapping
guidelines.
      2.   Access to and from the critical facility shall be protected to the
elevation of the 500-year flood. (Ord. 23-03, 3-21-2023)
ARTICLE VI. ENFORCEMENT
15.27.220: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and the penalty provisions in title 1,
chapter 1.16 of this code shall apply. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-03, 3-
21-2023)
15.27.230: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT:
The city shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or
criminal judicial case or pursue an administrative enforcement action for the
violation of this chapter. If administrative enforcement action is taken the
procedures in LDC chapter 17.60 shall apply. (Ord. 11-30, 2011; amd. Ord. 23-
03, 3-21-2023)
CHAPTER 15.28
VACANT BUILDINGS
SECTION:
15.28.010: Purpose
15.28.020: Definitions
15.28.030: Registration Generally
15.28.040: Requirements
15.28.050: Inspection
15.28.060: Corrective Action
15.28.070: Right Of Appeal
15.28.080: Amending Registration
15.28.090: Non-Payment Of Fees/Liens
15.28.010: PURPOSE:
   A.   The City has determined that a vacant building may present a fire
hazard, may provide temporary occupancy by transients (including drug users and
traffickers), may detract from private and/or public efforts to rehabilitate or
maintain surrounding buildings, and that the health, safety and welfare of the
public is served by the regulation of such vacant buildings.
   B.   Owners of vacant buildings shall register such vacant buildings with
the City, make payment of a fee for the registration thereof, and otherwise
conform to these vacant building regulations.
   C.   This chapter ensures that, through a registration, inspection and
monitoring process, vacant buildings will be kept weather tight and secure from
trespassers, will provide safe entry to police officers and firefighters in
times of emergency, will not impede private and/or public efforts to
rehabilitate or maintain surrounding buildings, and will not present otherwise
a public hazard.
   D.   The City, by and through its departments shall inspect and monitor
vacant buildings, shall assess the effects of the condition of those buildings
on nearby structures, and shall promote substantial efforts to rehabilitate and
develop such buildings when appropriate.
These provisions will place the responsibility to register and maintain vacant
structures on the building owner before a building's condition falls into
disrepair or otherwise merits a complaint. (Ord. 18-06, 2018)
15.28.020: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows:
BOARDED: A building or structure subject to the provision of this section shall
be deemed to be "boarded" if in place of one or more exterior doors, other than
a storm door, or of one or more windows, there is a sheet or sheets of plywood
or similar material covering the space for such door or window.
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE AND MAJOR SYSTEMS: The phrase "exterior maintenance and
major systems" shall mean the safe and lawful maintenance of the facade,
windows, doors, roof and other parts of the exterior of the building and the
maintenance of its major systems consisting of the roof, the electrical and
plumbing systems, the water supply system, the sewer system, and the sidewalk,
driveway, if any, area of the lot, as applicable and as enforced by the City,
particularly in connection with codes adopted by the City as well as all
applicable local, State and Federal laws.
OCCUPIED: Any building or structure shall be deemed to be occupied if one or
more persons actually conduct a lawful business or resides in all or any part
of the building as the licensed business occupant, or as the legal or equitable
owner/occupant(s) or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-transient basis, or any
combination of the same. For purposes of this section, evidence offered to
prove that a building is so occupied may include, but shall not be limited to,
the regular receipt of delivery of regular mail through the U.S. Postal
Service; proof of continual telephone, electric, gas, heating, water and sewer
services; a valid City business license or the most recent, Federal or State
Income Tax statements indicating that the subject property is the official
business or residence address of the person or business claiming occupancy; or
proof of bonafide pre-rental inspection.
OPEN: A building or structure subject to the provisions of this section shall
be deemed to be "open" if any one or more exterior doors other than a storm
door is broken, open and/or closed but, without a properly functioning lock to
secure it, or if one or more windows is broken or not capable of being locked
and secured from intrusion, or any combination of the same.
OWNER: An owner of the freehold of the premises or any lesser estate therein, a
mortgagee, a vendee-in-possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor,
trustee, lessee, agent or any other person, firm or corporation that is
directly or indirectly in control of a building subject to the provisions of
this section and as set forth below.
VACANT: A building or structure shall be deemed to be vacant if no person or
persons currently conduct a lawfully licensed business, or lawfully resides,
dwells, or lives in any part of the building as the legal or equitable owner(s)
or tenant- occupant(s), or owner-occupant(s), or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-
transient basis. A building or structure shall be deemed vacant and subject to
the registration and possible penalty provisions provided herein if the
exterior maintenance and major systems of the building and the surrounding real
property thereof, as defined in this section, are in violation of the Building
Codes or Health and Sanitation Codes and if there is not proof of continual
utility service evidencing actual use of electric, gas (i.e., applicable
heating sources), water service, etc. Continued is meant to be without more
than one (1) 30-day interruption in any given three hundred sixty (360) day
period. In order for such continual utility service to be considered as being
actually in use as described in this section, it must be more than merely
registered to the owner for purposes of billing and must be utilized, at a
minimum, in order to keep the property and the major systems of the building in
compliance with Building and Safety Codes. The person or entity asserting that
there has been continued utility service has the burden of proof to produce
actual bills evidencing utility service for the relevant period. Any building
under active construction with a valid building permit shall not be deemed
vacant. (Ord. 18-06, 2018)
15.28.030: REGISTRATION GENERALLY:
   A.   Registration With Department Of Community Development: All owners of
realty within the City of Logan that contain a vacant structure as defined
above, shall register the same with the Department of Community Development of
the City. For those structures that qualify as a vacant structure, the owner
thereof shall be required to register the structure with the Department of
Community Development within thirty (30) days after the structure is found to
meet the definition of a vacant structure. The registration form shall require
information from the registrant deemed necessary by the Chief Building
Official, Fire Chief, City Engineer, and Police Chief of the City, to ensure
that the purpose of this chapter is met. Specifically, the above- named City
officials shall have the authority to require that the property owner provide a
professional opinion (architect, engineer, etc.) to determine the structural
integrity of the building, the repairs necessary to ensure its structural
integrity and that it will be safe for entry by firefighters and police
officers in time of emergency, and that the building and its contents do not
present a hazard to the public during the time the building remains vacant. The
above-named officials shall have the authority to issue orders to the owner for
corrective action deemed necessary. The officials shall rely upon all
applicable codes and regulations, for guidance during any such structural
review. As part of the registration the owner shall submit a timeline and plan
for when the vacant structure will be demolished or repaired and occupied.
   B.   Registration Statement; Local Agent: The requirements of this section
shall be applicable to each owner of any building that is found to be vacant
pursuant to the definitions contained herein. Each such owner shall cause to be
filed a notarized registration statement, which shall include the street
address and parcel number of each such vacant building, the names and addresses
of all owners, as hereinafter described, and any other information deemed
necessary by the City. The registration fee(s) as required by this section
shall be billed by the City and shall be paid by the last day of the month when
the property has been registered. For purposes of this section, the following
shall be applicable:
      1.   If the owner is a corporation, the registration statement shall
provide the names and residence addresses of all officers and directors of the
corporation and shall be accompanied by a copy of the most recent annual
report/renewal filed with the Utah Department of Commerce;
      2.   If an estate, the name and business address of the executor of the
estate;
      3.   If a trust, the name and address of all trustees, grantors, and
beneficiaries;
      4.   If a partnership, the names and residence addresses of all partners
with an interest of ten percent (10%) or greater;
      5.   If any other form of unincorporated association, the names and
residence addresses of all principals with an interest of ten percent (10%) or
greater;
      6.   If an individual person, the name and residence address of that
individual person.
      7.   If the owner does not have an address within the State, the
registration statement also shall provide the name and address of a person who
resides within the State and who is authorized to accept service of process on
behalf of the owner and who shall be designated as a responsible, local party
or agent, both for purposes of notification in the event of an emergency
affecting the public health, safety or welfare and for purposes of service of
any and all notices or registration statements as herein authorized and in
connection herewith.
   C.   Fees: Registration shall be required for all vacant buildings, whether
vacant and secure, vacant and open, or vacant and boarded, and shall be
required whenever any building has remained vacant for forty five (45)
consecutive days or more. In no instance shall the registration of a vacant
building and the payment of registration fees be construed to exonerate the
owner, agent or responsible party for compliance with any other Building Code
or Housing Code requirement. One registration statement may be filed to include
all vacant buildings of the owner so registering, but each structure
constitutes a separate fee. The owner of the vacant property as of the last day
of the month when the property has been registered of each calendar year shall
be responsible for the payment of the non-refundable registration fee. Said fee
shall be billed by the City; and based on the duration of the vacancy as
determined by the following fee schedule:
      1.   No fee for properties that are vacant for less than six (6) months
and then fifty dollars ($50.00) per month thereafter through the first year;
      2.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) per month for properties that are
vacant for one year or more;
      3.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month for properties that are
vacant for two (2) years or more. (Ord. 18-06, 2018)
15.28.040: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All vacant structures shall also comply with the following criteria:
      1.   Exterior property areas are to be mowed regularly and non-
cultivated gardens maintained at no more than six inches (6") of growth. All
noxious weeds are prohibited.
      2.   Structure is to be broom swept and clear of all contents, not
including building materials or components to be used in the future renovation
at that structure.
      3.   Electrical service is to be provided to the building via temporary
pole service on the exterior of the structure or create a permanent service for
the structure and install two (2) GFCI protected receptacles.
      4.   NEC and OSHA compliant string lighting is to be provided to the
entire structure so that it may be illuminated as needed to view the structure.
      5.   Unstable interior and exterior surfaces and components are to be
removed. Unstable or unsound accessory buildings are to be razed or renovated.
      6.   Using wood sheet goods; all loose, deteriorated and broken windows
and doors are to be covered to eliminate the danger of their falling and to
prevent the unwanted entry of trespassers. Such wood sheet goods are to be cut
and neatly fit, not just nailed over the opening.
      7.   All loose or deteriorating trim, gutter or overhang extensions
(masonry or frame) are to be removed or reattached to prevent falling.
      8.   Regular monitoring of the structure is to occur by the owner to
ensure that the building is being kept in compliance with the above items.
      9.   Utilities need to be connected to the structure. (Ord. 18-06, 2018)
15.28.050: INSPECTION:
At the time of registration, the Chief Building Official, Fire Chief, City
Engineer, and Police Chief shall determine whether it is necessary for any or
all of them to inspect the structure so as to identify any public safety issues
needing addressed. Inspections shall also be available to verify the status of
any property concerning occupancy, vacancy, etc. If an internal inspection is
deemed necessary, the owner will be notified of the same and arrangements made
for the same. If the owner fails or refuses to consent to and arrange for an
inspection the City will seek an administrative search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, which shall include the Logan Municipal Justice Court,
to authorize inspection of the premises for the purpose of determining the
structural integrity of the building, the repairs necessary to insure its
structural integrity and that it will be safe for entry by firefighters and
police officers in time of emergency, and that the building and its vacant
contents do not present a hazard to the public during the time that the
building remains vacant.
All vacant structures are subject to re-inspection on an annual basis or as
deemed necessary. (Ord. 18-06, 2018)
15.28.060: CORRECTIVE ACTION:
The property owners shall be notified in writing of any corrective action
deemed necessary for Life, Safety and Building Code matters by City officials,
the applicable Code provisions or regulations, and will be afforded a
reasonable time to the corrective action. Corrective action concerning the
occupancy of vacant structures is discussed later herein. (Ord. 18-06, 2018)
15.28.070: RIGHT OF APPEAL:
The owner shall have the right to appeal a staff decision made pursuant to this
chapter to the Director of Community Development upon filing an application in
writing to the Department of Community Development no later than ten (10)
calendar days after the owner receives notice of the decision. On appeal, the
owner shall bear the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that
a staff decision was made in error.
If enforcement action is commenced against an owner for violations of this
chapter, using the Administrative Enforcement Code of the Logan Land
Development Code section 17.60, the owner shall have the right to request a
hearing pursuant to the provisions of that code. (Ord. 18-06, 2018)
15.28.080: AMENDING REGISTRATION:
   A.   Duty To Amend Registration Statement: If the status of the registration
information changes during any calendar year, it is the responsibility of the
owner, responsible party or agent for the same to contact the Department of
Community Development within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of such change
and advise the division in writing of those changes.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to any building owned by the
United States, the State of Utah, Logan City, or any of their respective
agencies or political subdivisions.
   C.   Violations And Penalties For Failure To Register: The failure or
refusal for any reason of any owner, or agent of an owner acting on behalf of
the owner, to register a vacant building upon adoption of this chapter, or to
pay any fees required to be paid pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
within thirty (30) days after they become due, shall constitute a violation
punishable upon conviction thereof by a fine in the amount of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
failure or refusal to pay a required vacant building fee, as applicable. In
such cases, whenever the minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) is
imposed, it shall not be subject to suspension or reduction for any reason.
(Ord. 18-06, 2018)
15.28.090: NON-PAYMENT OF FEES/LIENS:
After the owner is given notice of the amount of the registration fee due,
except for those owners that have properly perfected an appeal pursuant to
section
15.28.070 of this chapter, and the owner fails to pay the amount due, said
amount shall constitute a debt due and owing to the City and the City may
commence a civil action to collect such unpaid debt, which may include but not
limited to, a judgment lien on the subject property. (Ord. 18-06, 2018)
 
