TOWN CODE
of
MEADOW TOWN
UTAH
2016
Code current through:
Ord. 2019-6, passed 12-17-2019
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Meadow Town, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 2019-6, passed December 17, 2019.  Ordinances of
the Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Town office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 02-2017
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE MEADOW, UTAH TOWN CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Town Council of the Town of Meadow, Millard
County, Utah, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the Town
Code of the Town of Meadow, Millard County, Utah, prepared by Sterling
Codifiers, containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature
together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the
Governing Body of the Town, shall be accepted in all courts without question as
the Official Code and law of the Town as enacted by the Mayor and Town Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official Town Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the Town Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official Town
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official Town Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the Town Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official Town Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Town to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
PASSED this 19 day of December, 2017.
APPROVED this 19 day of November, 2017.
/s/         
   Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/      
   Town Clerk
Roll Call Vote:
AYES: 5
NAYS: 0
ABSENT: 0
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
MEADOW TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the town council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Meadow Town. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the MEADOW TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the town council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2016 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2016 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2016 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
town council. The town clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the town clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of this code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the town
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the town and shall be
returned to the office of the town clerk when directed so to do by order of the
town council. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the town passed prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the town; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2016 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2016 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2016 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The town council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and town council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other town officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees: Whenever any officer or employee is referred by
title, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "of Meadow
Town".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the town ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2016 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CODE: The town code of Meadow Town, Utah.
COUNTY: The county of Millard, state of Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the town for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to town regulation,
authorization or limitation.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
STATE: The state of Utah.
TOWN COUNCIL: The town council of Meadow Town, Utah.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2016 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-3: Liability Of Employers And Agents
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Criminal: The town council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum
class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a
term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the town
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   A municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may be sentenced
to pay a fine, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the town, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this town has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-703.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this town shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this town when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this town, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this town which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. UCA § 76-3-104.
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF EMPLOYERS AND AGENTS:
When the provisions of an ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of an
act, not only the person actually doing the prohibited thing or omitting the
directed act, but also the employer and all other persons aiding and abetting
therein shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty
prescribed for the offense. (1976 Code § 1-1-7)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Town Seal
1-5-1: TOWN SEAL:
The seal of Meadow Town shall be circular in form, one and three-fourths inches
(13/4") in diameter, the impression of which shall be on the outside circle,
"MEADOW, MILLARD COUNTY, UTAH", and in the center, "TOWN INCORPORATION", and
the same is hereby established and declared to be the seal of Meadow Town.
(1976 Code §
1-2-3)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Meetings Of Town Council
1-6-2: Rules Of Order
1-6-3: Ordinances And Resolutions
1-6-1: MEETINGS OF TOWN COUNCIL:
   A.   The town council shall meet at such designated times as the town
council shall set by ordinance; provided, that one meeting shall be held every
month. The mayor or any two (2) members of the town council may call a special
meeting in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-502. Meetings shall
be held the third Tuesday of every month at the Meadow fire station at seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. (1976 Code §
1-2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   In case any meeting day falls on a legal holiday the regular meeting
shall be held the next business day following and adjourned meetings may be
held from time to time as circumstances may require. (1976 Code §
1-2-1)
1-6-2: RULES OF ORDER:
Where not otherwise provided for in this code, or by resolution of the town
council, "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern the proceedings of the town
council. (1976 Code §
1-2-4)
1-6-3: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
The form, enacting clause, effective date, publication and posting of
ordinances and resolutions shall be governed as provided in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-701 et seq. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Salaries
1-7-1: SALARIES:
The officers and employees of the town may receive such compensation as
provided by ordinance of the town council and in compliance with Utah Code
Annotated section 10-3-818. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 8
SURPLUS TOWN PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definitions
1-8-2: Determination Of Surplus Town Property
1-8-3: Disposition Procedures
1-8-4: Fair Market Value Determination
1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
PERSONAL PROPERTY: All property that is not considered real property.
REAL PROPERTY: Land and buildings or structures, permanently affixed thereto.
SURPLUS TOWN PROPERTY: A. Personal property which is owned by Meadow Town, and
which has no further usefulness to the town. An item of property shall be
considered to have no further usefulness when:
      1.   The item or its function has been totally replaced by other town
property and no probable future function exists for it; or
      2.   The town no longer performs the service for which the item was
purchased or no other service can reasonably be provided by the item; or
      3.   The item is no longer able to reliably or economically perform the
work required of it.
   B.   "Surplus town property", as defined in this definition, shall not
include land, buildings or other real property, but shall include fixtures and
such salvage as may be taken from a building without structural damage when
such fixtures and salvage are not part of a demolition contract. Surplus town
property shall not include property which is obtained by the town as a result
of abandonment or loss by the property's original owner. Surplus town property
shall not include items of property which are traded in for newer items. (2016
Code)
1-8-2: DETERMINATION OF SURPLUS TOWN PROPERTY:
The town council shall have the sole right from time to time to determine what
town property is surplus for purposes of this chapter, subject to the standards
enumerated within, and of the laws of the state. (2016 Code)
1-8-3: DISPOSITION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Whenever the town council determines that an item of property is
surplus town property, it shall dispose of such property as it determines. The
method of disposal chosen shall be one which is most appropriate, given the
condition, location and physical characteristics of the item; the amount of
time, effort, administration and expense required for the method relative to
the potential value received; and the public benefits and/or liabilities
associated with the method.
   B.   Whenever the town council determines that an item of property is
"surplus town property" pursuant to the definition in section
1-8-1 of this chapter, the town council may dispose of the property to the
public at large by:
      1.   Public or internet auction; or
      2.   Sale by sealed bid; or
      3.   Use as a trade in for new or replacement town property; or
      4.   Sell as scrap or for recycling; or
      5.   Destroy or discard as rubbish; or
      6.   Other methods, which may be approved on a case by case basis by the
town council.
   C.   The personal property to be sold shall be advertised by publication at
least one time in a newspaper of general circulation or periodical generally
distributed within the county, and/or placed in at least three (3) conspicuous
public places, and the manner of disposition listed. The manner of advertising
and processing of bids shall be consistent with practices employed for other
town transactions requiring bids.
   D.   If the methods in subsection B of this section produce no bids, or bids
of less than a reasonable sale price, any or all bids may be rejected by the
town council, and offers in any form may be solicited and accepted without
further competitive procedures.
   E.   If no satisfactory bids or offers are received under subsection B of
this section, such surplus property may be retained, sold or disposed of in
another manner deemed suitable to the town council.
   F.   Surplus property having a total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00), may be sold without compliance with the advertising and sealed bid
requirements of subsection C of this section.
   G.   In addition, the town council shall have the authority to discard
surplus property if it has little or no value or use. Surplus town property may
be traded in if in the sole discretion of the town council such trade in would
be advantageous to the town.
   H.   In the event of a public auction or sale by sealed bid, the item will
be sold in "as is, where is" condition to the person submitting the highest bid
provided, with no warranties or guarantees expressed or implied unless
specifically offered by the town council. Bidders should be encouraged to
inspect items prior to bidding during reasonable hours by appointment.
   I.   The town council shall determine the time in which the successful
bidder must remove the item, with removal also subject to terms of payment. In
the event the item is not removed within that time, unless specific
arrangements are made with the town council, then the item shall revert to the
town and the amount of the bid shall be forfeited to the town. In the event no
bids are received, the item shall be disposed of as directed by the town
council. In the event of an internet auction, a list shall be preserved of the
articles sold, the price for each item sold and the name and address to whom
the property is sold. It shall not be necessary to publish a list of the
articles to be sold, but it shall be sufficient to give notice that articles
will be sold via the internet, naming the website and giving the beginning date
of any such sale. The cost of shipping and handling shall be borne by the
winning bidder.
   J.   The town council reserves the right to set a minimum bid amount that is
satisfactory and at least fair market value for each and all surplus property
items. The town council reserves the right to waive any minor procedural
irregularities with respect to the notice, bidding and auction process,
whenever the town council determines that the best interests of the town will
be served thereby. The town council may reject any or all bids, may direct a
rebid, and may elect to not dispose of the property in question if bids
received are not acceptable to the town, whenever the town council determines
that the best interests of the town will be served thereby.
   K.   Payment in full is due not later than the close of seven (7) business
days after bid award or else bidder forfeits the right to purchase of property.
No property shall be removed until payment is received in full and payment has
cleared the bank, not to exceed ten (10) days after bid award. Acceptable forms
of payment are: U.S. currency, cashier's check, certified check, money order or
a company check with a mandatory bank letter guaranteeing payment. No personal
checks accepted, traveler's checks or wire. Checks shall be made payable to
"Meadow Town Corporation", and shall be submitted to the town treasurer. The
town treasurer shall deposit the proceeds from surplus town property sales into
the town accounts.
   L.   Town employees shall be permitted to participate in the purchase of
town surplus personal property, only in the same manner as the public at large,
except that no town employee shall be given any consideration or privilege in
any such sale that might be construed as giving him an advantage in obtaining
any surplus property. (2016 Code)
1-8-4: FAIR MARKET VALUE DETERMINATION:
Whenever this chapter requires a determination of the fair market value of an
item of property, that determination shall be made by the town council, whose
decision shall be final. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 9
RETURNED CHECKS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Insufficient Funds/Returned Checks Defined
1-9-2: Procedure For Returned Checks
1-9-1: INSUFFICIENT FUNDS/RETURNED CHECKS DEFINED:
"Insufficient funds/returned checks" are defined as checks written to Meadow
Town or its agencies that are not honored by the originating bank. Common
reasons for a returned check or bank draft are insufficient funds in the
account, the account has been closed or a stop payment has been requested.
(2016 Code)
1-9-2: PROCEDURE FOR RETURNED CHECKS:
   A.   Fee: Once a returned check has been received by the town, a twenty five
dollar ($25.00) fee will be charged. The twenty five dollar ($25.00) returned
check fee will be added to the original amount due. The individual will then be
placed on a "no check list". The original charge and the twenty five dollar
($25.00) returned check fee must be paid to the town treasurer to relieve the
individual of his/her obligation to the town. The town council shall have the
authority to change the fee by resolution when needed.
   B.   Utility Customers: If a utility billing customer has written a check
for which there is insufficient funds, the customer will be required to pay
future bills with cash, a money order, a cashier's check or other acceptable
cash instrument for the next six (6) months. If the customer pays late or is
disconnected for failure to pay within the six (6) month period, the cash only
basis will continue for another six (6) months.
   C.   Transaction Canceled: Any transaction that was covered by the check is
to be canceled and the individual or organization notified in writing of the
cancellation. Any further transaction made by the individual must be paid in
full, and include the returned check fee imposed by the town council before it
is a valid transaction.
   D.   Letter Of Error From Financial Institution: If the notice of dishonor
is the fault of the bank, credit union or other financial institution, a letter
from the financial establishment within thirty (30) days from receipt of notice
of insufficient funds acknowledging their error is required so that the six (6)
month period of no check acceptance may be waived.
   E.   Applicability Of Loss Of Check Writing Privileges: If a person is on
the "no check list", the loss of check writing privileges will apply to all
bank accounts, not just the one on which the check was drawn. If a business is
on the "no check list", no business checks will be accepted from any account.
If both a person and a business were on the dishonored check, the town will not
accept checks from either holder's accounts.
   F.   Legal Action: If legal action is necessary to collect funds owed to the
town on a nonnegotiable check, the person or persons responsible for the check
will be liable for all expenses incurred by the town for said legal action. All
check cashing privileges will be suspended heretofore for a period of twelve
(12) months.
   G.   Disconnection Of Service: If notification of a pending disconnection
and a check for the delinquent payment is returned by the bank, service will be
disconnected without further notice.
   H.   Setting Of Fees: The town council, at its sole discretion, may from
time to time set returned check and other fees associated with this chapter by
resolution by agreement of the town council when it sees fit to do so. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 10
PURCHASING
SECTION:
1-10-1: General Provisions
1-10-2: Office Of The Purchasing Agent - Approval Of Purchase
1-10-3: Purchasing Procedure
1-10-4: Specifications
1-10-5: Appeals
1-10-6: Ethics In Public Contracting
1-10-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The underlying purposes of this policy are:
      1.   To ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to,
or do conduct business with Meadow Town, hereafter referred to as "Meadow".
      2.   To provide for the greatest possible economy and long-term value in
Meadow purchasing activities.
      3.   To foster effective broad-based competition within the free
enterprise system to ensure that Meadow will receive the best possible service
and/or product at the lowest possible price while, at the same time, attempting
to attain the greatest long- term value in procurements or purchases.
      4.   In Meadow's attempt to attain the greatest long-term value, Meadow
may show preference to local vendors even though their bid may not be the
lowest bid. In showing such preference, Meadow shall justify this by
determining that such decision will result in equal to or greater long-term
value of such procurement for certain reasons such as better and/or more
convenient service, maintenance, warranty, etc.
   B.   Compliance - Exemptions From This Policy:
      1.   This policy shall not prevent Meadow from complying with the terms
and conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise consistent with
law.
      2.   When a procurement or purchase involves the expenditure of Federal
assistance funds, Meadow shall comply with applicable Federal law and
regulations.
   C.   Definitions:
BUSINESS: Means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship,
joint stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.
CHANGE ORDER: Means a written order signed by the Purchasing Agent, directing
the contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses
of the contract authorize the Purchasing Agent to order without the consent of
the contractor or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point,
rate of delivery, period of performance, price, quantity, or other provisions
of any contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.
CONTRACT: Means any Meadow agreement for the procurement or disposal of
supplies, services, or construction.
INVITATION FOR BIDS: Means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.
PERSON: Means any business, individual, union, committee, club, other
organization, or group of individuals.
PURCHASE: Means buying, procuring, renting, leasing, leasing with an option to
purchase or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services, or construction.
PURCHASE DESCRIPTION: Means the words used in a solicitation to describe the
supplies, services, or construction to be purchased, and includes
specifications attached to or made a part of the solicitation.
PURCHASING AGENT: Means the person duly authorized by the Governing Body of
Meadow to enter into and administer contracts and make written determinations
with respect thereto.
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION (RFI): Means to solicit information and/or to determine
the level of vendor interest and availability to provide a service or product
to Meadow.
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP): Means all documents, whether attached or
incorporated by reference, used for soliciting proposals. Normally used when
other factors in addition to price and delivery are important in the
procurement.
REQUEST FOR QUOTATION (RFQ): Means to solicit low dollar bids with no other
considerations. (Ord. 2019-4, 9-18-2018)
1-10-2: OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT - APPROVAL OF PURCHASE:
The Meadow Town Clerk shall be the official Purchasing Agent of Town. However,
each other elected row official or department heads appointed and supervised by
such elected row officials shall be responsible to make procurements, solicit
bids and proposals, enter into and administer contracts, and make written
determinations for Meadow, with each of said actions to be approved in advance
by the elected row official whose department is involved or by the Town Council
when the department involved is under the direct supervision of the Town
Council. (Ord. 2019-4, 9-18-2018)
1-10-3: PURCHASING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Purchases Not Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   Purchases costing less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in
total, shall not require bids of any type. (Purchases shall not be artificially
divided so as to constitute a small purchase under this section.)
      2.   Purchases costing more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) but
less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) in total, shall require
three (3) telephone bids, which shall be documented and submitted to Clerk's
Office prior to payment to vendor.
      3.   Purchases made through the cooperative purchasing contracts
administered by the Utah State Division of Purchasing or direct comparison
thereto, which shall be documented.
      4.   Purchases made from a single-source provider, which shall be
documented.
      5.   Purchases required during an emergency, i.e., an eminent threat to
the public's health, welfare, or safety. However, as much competition as
practical should be obtained, and, such purchases should be limited to amounts
necessary to the resolution of the emergency.
      6.   This policy does not preclude following the sealed bid process for
purchases under twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).
   B.   Purchases Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   All purchases or procurements in excess of twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) shall be made pursuant to sealed bidding requirements
provided hereafter.
      2.   An invitation for bids shall be issued when a purchase is to be made
by competitive sealed bidding. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of specifications and all contractual terms and conditions
applicable to the procurement. Notice of the invitation for bids shall be given
at least ten (10) days prior to the date set forth therein for the opening of
bids. The notice may include publication in a newspaper of general circulation.
The bids shall be mailed to the Office of the Meadow Town Clerk, P.O. Box 88,
Meadow, Utah 84644.
      3.   Any purchase in excess of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00)
shall require at least three (3) invitations for bid in writing or by
telephone, being properly documented, or one advertisement in a local newspaper
of general circulation. However, if the procurement is for the repair,
alteration, or construction of a public building, the bid shall be let to the
lowest responsive and responsible bidder after publication of notice at least
once a week for three (3) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation published in Meadow.
      4.   Bids shall be opened publicly in a regularly scheduled meeting of
the Governing Body of Meadow and in the presence of one or more witnesses at
the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. The amount of each
bid and any other relevant information, together with the name of each bidder,
shall be recorded. The record and each bid shall be open to public inspection.
      5.   Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without alteration or
correction, except as authorized in this policy. Bids shall be evaluated based
on the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids.
      6.   Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before or
after award, or cancellation of awards or contracts based on such bid mistakes,
shall be permitted. After bid opening no changes in bid prices or other
provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest of Meadow or fair competition
shall be permitted. All decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of
bids or to cancel awards or contracts based on bid mistakes shall be supported
by a written determination made by the Purchasing Agent.
      7.   The contract shall be awarded with reasonable promptness, by written
notice, to the lowest bid or bid of best long-term value to Meadow, as
determined by Meadow, so long as the bid meets the requirements,
specifications, and criteria set forth in the invitation for bids and the
policies and provisions of this purchasing policy.
      8.   In procurements for any new construction of any public (Town owned)
building or facility, all electrical and/or plumbing portions of such
construction shall be performed by contractors licensed and certified by the
proper regulating agency or agencies.
      9.   All contracts awarded by the Town for the repair, alteration, or
construction of any public facility shall only be to contractors licensed and
certified by the proper regulating agency or agencies.
   C.   Cancellation And Rejection Of Bids: An invitation for bids, a request
for proposals, or other solicitation may be canceled, or any or all bids or
proposals may be rejected, in whole or in part, as may be specified in the
solicitation, when it is in the best interests of Meadow. The reasons shall be
made part of the contract file.
   D.   Use Of Competitive Sealed Proposals In Lieu Of Bids: When the
Purchasing Agent or designee determines in writing that the use of competitive
sealed bidding is either not practicable or not advantageous to Meadow, a
contract may be entered into by competitive sealed proposals. Competitive
sealed proposals are most appropriately used for professional service-type
contracts.
      1.   Proposals shall be solicited through a request for proposals. Public
notice of the request for proposals shall be given at least ten (10) days prior
to the advertised date of the opening of the proposals.
      2.   Proposals shall be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to
competing offerors during the process of negotiation. A register of proposals
shall be prepared and shall be open for public inspection after contract award.
      3.   The request for proposals shall state the relative importance of
price and other evaluating factors.
      4.   Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to
any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals, and revisions may be
permitted after submissions and prior to award for the purpose of obtaining
best and final offers. In conducting discussions, there shall be no disclosure
of any information derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors.
      5.   Award shall be made to the person whose proposal is determined, in
writing, to be the most advantageous for Meadow, taking into consideration
price and the evaluation factors set forth in the request for proposals. No
other factors or criteria shall be used in the evaluation. The contract file
shall contain the basis on which the award is made.
   E.   Architect-Engineer Services Are Qualification Based Procurements:
Requests for such services should be publicly announced. Contracts should be
negotiated by Meadow based on demonstrated competence at fair and reasonable
prices.
   F.   Determination Of Non-Responsibility Of Bidder: Determination of non-
responsibility of bidder or offeror shall be made in writing. The unreasonable
failure of a bidder or offeror to promptly supply information in connection
with an inquiry with respect to responsibility may be grounds for a
determination of non-responsibility with respect to the bidder or offeror.
Information furnished by a bidder or offeror pursuant to this section shall not
be disclosed outside of the purchasing division without prior written consent
by the bidder or offeror.
   G.   Cost-Plus-A-Percentage-Of-Cost Contracts Prohibited: Subject to the
limitations of this chapter, any type of contract which will promote the best
interests of Meadow may be used, provided that the use of a cost-plus-a-
percentage-of-cost contract is prohibited. A cost-reimbursement contract may be
used only when a determination is made in writing that such contract is likely
to be less costly to Meadow than any other type or that it is impracticable to
obtain the supplies, services, or construction required except under such a
contract.
   H.   Telemarketing Solicitations Prohibited: Procurements shall not be made
pursuant to or in response to telephone or telemarketing solicitations to Town
employees.
   I.   Required Contract Clauses:
      1.   The unilateral right of Meadow to order, in writing, changes in the
work within the scope of the contract and changes in the time of performance of
the contract that do not alter the scope of the contract work.
      2.   Variations occurring between estimated qualities of work in a
contract and actual quantities.
      3.   Suspension of work ordered by Meadow. (Ord. 2019-4, 9-18-2018)
1-10-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
All specifications shall seek to promote overall economy and best value and use
for the purposes intended and encourage competition in satisfying Meadow's
needs, and shall not be unduly restrictive. Where practical and reasonable, and
within the scope of this chapter, all Utah and Millard County products and
services shall be given preference so long as proper justification is given.
(Ord. 2019-4, 9-18-2018)
1-10-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or contractor who is
aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a contract may appeal
to the Purchasing Agent. An appeal shall be submitted in writing within five
(5) working days after the aggrieved person knows or should have known of the
facts.
   B.   The Purchasing Agent shall promptly issue a written decision regarding
any appeal, if it is not settled by a mutual agreement. The decision shall
state the reasons for the action taken and inform the protester, contractor, or
prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the Governing Board.
   C.   Meadow's Governing Board shall be the final appeal on Town level.
   D.   All further appeals shall be handled as provided in Utah Code Annotated
title 63G, chapter 6a. (Ord. 2019-4, 9-18-2018)
1-10-6: ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING:
   A.   No person involved in making procurement decisions may have personal
investments in any business entity which will create a substantial conflict
between their private interests and their public duties.
   B.   Any person involved in making procurement decisions is guilty of a
felony if the person asks, receives, or offers to receive any emolument,
gratuity, contribution, loan, or reward, or any promise thereof, either for the
person's own use or the use or benefit of any other person or organization from
any person or organization interested in selling to Meadow. (Ord. 2019-4, 9-18-
2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Reserved
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: License Assessor And Collector
3-1-3: Application For License
3-1-4: License Fee Levied
3-1-5: Payment Dates
3-1-6: Penalty For Late Payment
3-1-7: License Certificate
3-1-8: Transferability
3-1-9: Display Of License Required
3-1-10: Records Maintained By Town Clerk
3-1-11: Revocation Of License
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on any business,
trade, profession or calling within the town, for the transaction or carrying
on of which a license is required, without first taking out or procuring the
license required for such business, trade, profession or calling. (1976 Code §
11-1-1)
3-1-2: LICENSE ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR:
The town clerk is hereby designated and appointed as ex officio the assessor of
license taxes for the town. Upon receipt of any application for a license, the
town clerk shall assess the amount due thereupon, and shall collect all license
fees based upon the rates established by ordinance or resolution of the town
council. He shall enforce all provisions of this title, and shall cause to be
filed complaints against all persons violating any of the provisions of this
title. (1976 Code § 11-1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
3-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for licenses shall specify:
   A.   The name of the person desiring a license.
   B.   The kind of license desired, stating the business, calling or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on.
   C.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on. (1976 Code § 11-1-4)
3-1-4: LICENSE FEE LEVIED:
   A.   Levied: There is hereby levied upon the business, location, trade or
calling of every person engaged in business in the town an annual license fee
based upon the type or class of said business as follows:
Automotive trades:
Automotive trades:
   Bulk distributor                                                            $20.00
   Garage: Repairs cars, trucks and farm machinery, sells parts, accessories,  20.00
tires, tubes, gasoline and oil
   Service stations                                                            20.00
Building trades:
   Building contractor                                                         20.00
   Cabinet shop                                                                20.00
   Cement contractor                                                           20.00
   Electric contractor                                                         20.00
   Excavation contractor                                                       20.00
   Painting contractor                                                         20.00
   Plumbing contractor                                                         20.00
   Siding and/or roofing contractor                                            20.00
Foods:
   Grocery store: Sells meats, groceries, soft drinks, ice cream, candy, wrappe20.00
bakery goods
   Restaurant                                                                  20.00
Industrial, livestock and agricultural trades:
   Feed mill or yards                                                          20.00
   Hardware and implements: Sells hardware, implements and farm machinery, new
and used parts, accessories, tires and tubes for same and/or operates repair      20.00
garage
Personal services:
   Barber                                                                      20.00
   Beautician                                                                  20.00
   Photographer                                                                20.00
   Veterinarian                                                                20.00
Recreation:
   Acrobatic or athletic performance (per day)                                 5.00
   Circus or carnival (per day)                                                5.00
Repair services:
   Electric motors and appliances repair                                       20.00
   TV repair                                                                   20.00
Miscellaneous:
   Antique store                                                               20.00
   Auctioneer (per day)                                                        20.00
   Solicitor or peddler:                                                       5.00
    Per day                                                                     20.00
    Per year
   Trailer court                                                               20.00
   Any business not specifically mentioned                                     20.00
 
   (1976 Code § 11-2-1)
   B.   Multiple Businesses: Any person, company, firm, partnership or
corporation conducting more than one type of business at the same location
shall pay one license fee only, said license fee being the highest license fee
applicable to the business being conducted. (1976 Code § 11-2-2; amd. 2016
Code)
3-1-5: PAYMENT DATES:
All licenses shall be due the first day of each calendar year and shall become
delinquent if not paid by February 1 of each year. Licenses shall date from
January 1 of each year and shall expire on December 31 of each year. The
proceeds of all licenses shall be remitted or payable to the town treasurer.
(1976 Code § 11-1-3)
3-1-6: PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT:
If any license is not paid within thirty (30) days of the due date, a penalty
of ten percent (10%) of the amount of such license fee shall be added to the
original amount thereof. No license shall issue until all penalties legally
assessed have been paid in full. (1976 Code § 11-1-5)
3-1-7: LICENSE CERTIFICATE:
All certificates of license shall be issued and signed by the town clerk and
under the seal of the town, and shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name of the person, firm or corporation to whom such certificate
has been issued.
   B.   The amount paid to the town treasurer.
   C.   The kind of license.
   D.   The term of the license, with the commencing date and the date of its
expiration.
   E.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on. (1976 Code § 11-1-6)
3-1-8: TRANSFERABILITY:
No license granted or issued under the provisions of this title, or otherwise,
shall in any manner be assignable or transferable, or authorize any business to
be done or transacted at any place other than is mentioned and described in
said license, or for any period of time beyond the expiration of the license.
(1976 Code § 11-1-9)
3-1-9: DISPLAY OF LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every certificate of license issued under this title shall be posted by the
licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall of the building, room or office
of said place of business so that the same may be easily seen. (1976 Code § 11-
1-7)
3-1-10: RECORDS MAINTAINED BY TOWN CLERK:
The town clerk shall keep a list of all licenses issued by him, stating the
number, name and address of the applicant, kind of business, and amount paid,
with such other information as may be considered necessary and proper. (1976
Code § 11-1-8)
3-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority; Hearing: Whenever it shall appear to the town council that
any place of business for which a license has been granted, is kept or
conducted in an illegal, disorderly or ill governed manner, or whenever the
keeper or manager, or such other person in charge thereof, has been convicted
of keeping the same in a disorderly or ill governed manner, the town council
may revoke any such license; provided, however, that no license shall be
revoked until a hearing shall be had by the town council in the matter. Written
notice of such hearing shall be served at least three (3) days prior to the
date thereof upon the holder of such license, or his or its manager or agent.
Such notice shall state the ground of complaint against the holder of such
license, and the time when and the place where such hearing shall be held, and
it shall be served by delivering the same personally to the holder of such
license or his or its manager or agent.
   B.   Decision Final: The decision of the town council at said hearing shall
be final and conclusive.
   C.   Time Lapse: In case any license is revoked as herein provided for, at
least six (6) months' time shall elapse before another license shall be issued
to the person whose license was revoked. (1976 Code § 11-1-10)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Fee For License
3-2-4: Classifications Of Licenses
3-2-5: Separate License; Display Of License Required
3-2-6: Prohibited Acts And Activities
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The town hereby adopts the definitions provided in Utah Code Annotated section
32B-1-102, as amended. (1976 Code §
10-1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or business to engage in the business of
selling beer at retail, without having first procured a license therefor from
the governing body and paid the license fee required by this chapter. It shall
be unlawful for any person or business to sell beer after the revocation of the
license pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 87-2, 12-3-1987)
3-2-3: FEE FOR LICENSE:
In addition to any other business license fee which any person or place of
business may be required to pay, there is hereby imposed on the business
location or any person engaged in the sale or dispensing of beer an annual
license fee as set by the town council. (Ord. 87-2, 12-3-1987)
3-2-4: CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES:
Retail licenses issued hereunder shall be of the following kinds and shall
carry the following privileges and be known as class A and class B licenses:
   A.   Class A retail licenses issued hereunder shall entitle the licensee to
sell beer on the premises licensed in original containers for consumption off
the premises in accordance with the state alcoholic beverage control act and
the ordinances of the town.
   B.   Class B retail licenses issued hereunder shall entitle the licensee to
sell beer in the original containers on the premises for consumption on or off
the premises in accordance with the state alcoholic beverage control act and
the ordinances of the town. (Ord. 87-2, 12-3-1987)
3-2-5: SEPARATE LICENSE; DISPLAY OF LICENSE REQUIRED:
A separate license shall be required for each place of sale and the license
shall at all times be conspicuously displayed in the place to which it shall
refer or for which it shall be issued. All licensees shall comply with the
state alcoholic beverage control act and the regulations of the alcoholic
beverage control commission. (Ord. 87-2, 12-3-1987; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-6: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Supplying Alcoholic Beverages To Minors: It shall be unlawful for
alcoholic beverages to be given, sold or otherwise supplied to any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years, but this shall not apply to the supplying of
liquor to such person for medicinal purposes only by the parent or guardian of
such person or to the administering of liquor to such person by a physician in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter or the laws of the state. (1976
Code §
10-1-3)
   B.   Drunkenness: It shall be unlawful for any person to be drunk or
intoxicated in any street or alley or public place, restaurant, hotel, lobby or
parlor, or in or upon any vehicle, or in or about any waiting station or room,
or any public gathering within the corporate limits of this town. (1976 Code §
10-1-4)
   C.   Canvassing Or Soliciting: It shall be unlawful for any person to
canvass or solicit for alcoholic beverages by mail, telephone or other manner,
and said person is hereby prohibited from engaging in said activities, except
to the extent such prohibition may be in conflict with the laws of the United
States or the state. (1976 Code §
10-1-5)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisance Defined
4-1-2: Declaration Of Nuisances
4-1-3: Notice To Abate
4-1-4: Abatement By Town
4-1-5: Criminal Proceeding
4-1-6: Continued Offenses
4-1-1: NUISANCE DEFINED:
Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders soil, air,
water or food impure or unwholesome are declared to be nuisances and to be
illegal. It shall be unlawful for any person, either as an owner, agent or
occupant to create or aid in creating or contributing to or maintaining a
nuisance. (1976 Code § 9-2-1)
4-1-2: DECLARATION OF NUISANCES:
Every act or condition made, permitted, allowed or continued in violation of
section
4-1-1 of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the acts and conditions
hereinafter specified, are hereby declared to be nuisances and may be abated
and punished as hereinafter provided:
   A.   To befoul water in any spring, stream, well or water source supplying
water for culinary purposes.
   B.   To allow any privy, vault or cesspool or other individual wastewater
disposal system to become a menace to health or a source of odors to air or
water.
   C.   To permit any garbage container to remain on premises when it has
become unclean and offensive.
   D.   To allow vegetable waste, garbage, litter, filth or refuse of any
nature to accumulate within or upon any private alley, yard or area, except
when it is temporarily deposited for immediate removal.
   E.   To permit any slaughterhouse, market, meat shop, stable, feed yard or
other place or building wherein any animals are slaughtered, kept, fed or sold,
to remain unclean or in any state or condition detrimental to health or
creating a nuisance because of the development of odors, the breeding of flies
and the breeding of rodents.
   F.   To discharge or place any offensive water, liquid waste or refuse of
any kind into any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural
watercourse, ditch, canal or any vacant lot, or which as the result of
continued discharge will render the place of discharge offensive or likely to
become so.
   G.   To permit to be kept or collected any stale or putrid grease or other
offensive matter.
   H.   To have or permit upon any premises any fly or mosquito producing
condition.
   I.   To keep any drinking vessel for public use without providing a method
of decontamination between uses.
   J.   To permit or perform any ablutions in or near any public drinking
fountain.
   K.   To fail to furnish any dwelling house, boarding house or factory, or
other place of employment, with such privy vaults, water closets, sinks or
other facilities as may be required to maintain the same in a sanitary
condition.
   L.   To neglect or refuse to discontinue use of, clean out, disinfect, and
fill up all privy vaults and cesspools or other individual wastewater disposal
systems within twenty (20) days after notice from an enforcement officer or
official of the town.
   M.   To permit any lot or excavation to become the repository of stagnant
water or any decaying or offensive substances.
   N.   To obstruct or tend to obstruct or interfere with or render dangerous
for passage any street or sidewalks, any lakes, streams, canals or basins, or
any public park, without first obtaining the written permission of the town
council.
In this section of types of nuisances, those enumerated shall not be deemed in
any manner a limitation of the definition of nuisances set forth in section
4-1-1 of this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-2-2)
4-1-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
In order to better carry out the provisions of this chapter, any official
authorized by the town or state law, may serve a notice in writing upon the
owner, occupant or agent of any lot, building or premises in or about which any
nuisance may be found or upon him who may be the cause of such nuisance
requiring him to abate the same in such a manner as the town officer directs
and within a reasonable time to be fixed in the notice. Failure to give a
notice as provided herein shall not relieve the author of any nuisance from the
obligation to abate such nuisance or from the penalty resulting from the
violation of this chapter as the result of the creation or maintenance of such
nuisance. (1976 Code § 9-2-3; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-4: ABATEMENT BY TOWN:
In case of neglect or refusal of any person to abate any nuisance defined in
this chapter after notice in writing has been served upon him as provided in
section
4-1-3 of this chapter and within the time specified in said notice, it is
hereby made the duty of any official authorized by the town or state law to
abate or procure the abatement thereof pursuant to the powers granted to the
town by Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 11, and the expenses of such
abatement shall be collected from the person so offending either by means of
establishing it as a lien upon said property or by means of collection through
the courts as provided in said state statute. (1976 Code § 9-2-4; amd. 2016
Code)
4-1-5: CRIMINAL PROCEEDING:
The commencement of criminal proceedings for the purpose of imposing penalties
for violations of this chapter shall not be conditioned upon prior issuance of
a notice or the granting to the defendant of an opportunity to abate or remove
the nuisance. The provisions of this chapter relating to notice and abatement
shall be deemed merely alternative methods of securing conformity to the
provisions of this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-2-5)
4-1-6: CONTINUED OFFENSES:
Every day in which a violation of any of the provisions or requirements of this
chapter shall continue in effect shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct
offense under the provisions of this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-2-6)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS AND DELETERIOUS OBJECTS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Administration
4-2-3: Authority; Notice
4-2-4: Proof Of Service
4-2-5: Hearing; Decision
4-2-6: Noncompliance
4-2-7: Itemized Statement
4-2-8: Failure To Make Payment
4-2-9: Collection
4-2-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish a means whereby the town may
remove or abate or cause the removal or abatement of injurious and noxious
weeds, and of garbage, refuse or unsightly or deleterious objects or structures
pursuant to the powers granted to it by Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter
11, as amended, and pursuant to its general power to abate nuisances. It is
hereby declared that the above listed weeds, objects and structures shall
constitute a nuisance when they create a fire hazard, a source of contamination
or pollution of water, air or property, a danger to health, a breeding place of
habitation for insects or rodents or other forms of life deleterious to human
habitations or are unsightly or deleterious to their surroundings. (1976 Code §
9-3-1)
4-2-2: ADMINISTRATION:
The board of health shall administer the provisions of this chapter, subject to
review by the town council. The town council may appoint such assistant
inspectors and delegate to them such powers and duties as it may from time to
time determine by resolution. The powers and duties of the assistants shall be
the same as those of the board of health, unless otherwise so specified by
resolution. (1976 Code § 9-3-2)
4-2-3: AUTHORITY; NOTICE:
The board of health is hereby authorized and directed to inspect and examine
real property situated within the town for the purpose of determining whether
or not it contains injurious or noxious weeds, garbage, refuse or unsightly or
deleterious objects or structures, and for the purpose of determining whether
or not the existence of said weeds or objects creates a fire hazard or
constitutes a source of contamination or other danger to health and safety, or
otherwise creates nuisances, as above described. If the board of health
concludes that such conditions exist in whole or in part, it shall:
   A.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and descriptions of the
premises where such objects and conditions exist.
   B.   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such land,
either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner
and occupant at their last known post office addresses, as disclosed by the
records of the county assessor, or as otherwise ascertained, requiring such
owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy and
remove the same within such time as the board of health may designate, which
shall not be less than ten (10) days from the date of service of such notice.
   C.   Inform the owner or occupant or both by means of said notice or an
attached document that in the event he disagrees with the determination of the
board of health and does not wish to remove said objects or objectionable
conditions, he may request in writing a hearing before the town council at a
time and place to be set by the town council. A written application for a
hearing shall stay the time within which the owner or occupant must conform to
the decision of the board of health. In the event the owner or occupant makes
such request for a hearing, the town council shall set the time and place for
hearing said objections and the town clerk shall notify said owner or occupant
in writing of the time and place at which he may appear and be heard. Said
hearing shall not be heard within less than five (5) days from the date of
service or mailing of said notice. (1976 Code § 9-2-3)
4-2-4: PROOF OF SERVICE:
One notice shall be deemed sufficient on any lot or parcel of property for the
entire season of weed growth during that year. The board of health shall make
proof of service of such notice under oath, and file the same in the office of
the county treasurer. (1976 Code § 9-2-4)
4-2-5: HEARING; DECISION:
At the written request of an owner or occupant ordered to remove or abate said
weeds, objectionable conditions or objects from his real property, the town
council shall conduct an informal hearing (which need not be reported) wherein
said owner or occupant may present such evidence and argument as is pertinent
to the question of whether or not the removal or abatement of said objects or
conditions is properly within the purview of this chapter. The town council
shall also permit the presentation of evidence and argument by the board of
health and other interested parties. Thereafter, within not more than ten (10)
days, the town council shall, over the signature of the mayor or such other
member of the town council as it may designate by resolution, render its
written decision, a copy of which shall be mailed to or served upon the owner
or occupant by the board of health. In the event the decision of the town
council upholds the determination of the board of health, the notice originally
given by the board of health as above provided shall be deemed to be sufficient
to require the owner or occupant to remove or abate said objects or conditions
and he shall have up to ten (10) days from the date of written notice of the
decision within which to conform thereto. In the event that the decision of the
town council either overrules or modifies the determination of the board of
health, the written decision of the town council shall apprise him of that fact
and set forth the details and extent to which the owner or occupant must make
removal or other abatement of the said objects or conditions, if any. The owner
or occupant shall be required to conform to the decision of the town council
within ten (10) days after service of mailing of a copy of said decision and
said decision shall be deemed to be the modified decision of the board of
health. The inspector shall file an amended notice and proof of service of said
notice and file the same in the office of the county treasurer. (1976 Code § 9-
3-5)
4-2-6: NONCOMPLIANCE:
If any owner or occupant of lands described in such notice or decision shall
fail or neglect to conform to the requirements thereof relating to the
eradication or destruction or removal of such weeds, garbage, refuse, objects
or structures, the board of health shall employ all necessary assistance to
cause such materials to be removed or destroyed at the expense of the town.
(1976 Code § 9-3-6)
4-2-7: ITEMIZED STATEMENT:
The board of health shall prepare an itemized statement of all expenses
incurred in the removal and destruction of said materials and shall mail a copy
thereof to the owner or occupant, or both, demanding payment within twenty (20)
days of the date of mailing. Said notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed
by registered mail addressed to the property owner's or occupant's last known
address. (1976 Code § 9-3-7)
4-2-8: FAILURE TO MAKE PAYMENT:
In the event the owner or occupant fails to make payment of the amount set
forth in said statement to the town treasurer within said twenty (20) days, the
board of health either may cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of
law or may refer the matter to the county treasurer as provided in this
chapter. (1976 Code § 9-3-8)
4-2-9: COLLECTION:
   A.   Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of destruction and removal
are pursued through the courts, the town shall sue for and receive judgment for
all of said expenses of destruction and removal, together with reasonable
attorney fees, interest and court costs, and shall execute upon such judgment
in the manner provided by law. (1976 Code § 9-3-9)
   B.   Taxes: In the event that the board of health elects to refer the
expenses of destruction or removal to the county treasurer for inclusion in the
tax notice of the property owner, he shall make in triplicate an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the destruction and removal of the same
and shall deliver the three (3) copies of said statement to the county
treasurer within ten (10) days after the completion of the work of destroying
or removing such weeds, refuse, garbage, objects or structures. Thereupon, the
costs of said work shall be pursued by the county treasurer in accordance with
the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-11-4, as amended, and the
recalcitrant owner shall have such rights and shall be subject to such powers
as are thereby granted. (1976 Code § 9-3-10)
CHAPTER 3
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Residential Users
4-3-2: Commercial And Industrial Users
4-3-3: Prohibited Activities
4-3-4: Penalty
4-3-1: RESIDENTIAL USERS:
A fee of eleven dollars twenty five cents ($11.25) shall be and hereby is
imposed upon every residence and upon each single dwelling, as well as upon
each unit within a multiple dwelling within the Town, to be paid on the twelfth
day of each month and to be added to the billing for the utility charges
assessing for water and electric services. Upon payment of statements to the
Town under said billings, the amounts paid shall be credited first to this
solid waste disposal assessment, second the water assessment and last to the
electric assessment. Failure to pay any of said assessment shall authorize and
require the Town to turn off electric services to the premises until all
charges are paid in full. (Ord. 86-1, 6-5-1986; amd. Res. R4-3-1-A, 9-19-2017)
4-3-2: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USERS:
All commercial and industrial establishments shall pay a rate to be fixed by a
schedule to be determined by the Town and assigned an assessment on or before
July 1, 1986.
The Town shall establish four (4) classifications for commercial and industrial
users into which one of (or more than 1 if multiple business activities are
being carried on there) each establishment in the Town shall fall and the Town
shall then evaluate by percentages or other logical mathematics the
proportionately rated fees which each industrial or commercial user within each
class shall pay. The user within its class shall not be required to pay more,
nor permitted to pay less, than the bracket within which that user is
preliminarily placed by the Town.
The classes hereby fixed by this chapter, but which may be changed by
resolution of the Town Council, but otherwise shall be in effect until so
changed, are as follows:
 
                                                     Column 3 Dollar Assessment
Column 1 Magnitude Of     Column 2 Classification    For Commercial Or
Displacement Of Solid     Assigned To Displacement   Industrial User According
Waste Gathered In         Volume Taken From Column 1 To Classification Assigned
Calendar Quarter                                     Not More Than/Not Less
                                                     Than (Per Month)
100 cubic yards or more   High                       $100.00/$25.00
More than 25 but less     Medium                     $25.00/$10.00
than 100 cubic yards
More than 10 or less than Low                        $10.00/$5.00
25
Less than 10 cubic yards                             $3.00
 
Within the ranges "high", "medium" and "low", the Town shall assign a dollar
amount to be assessed within the ranges expressed in column 3 of this table for
each commercial and industrial user and that amount shall be the monthly charge
to the specific user thus assessed.
However, the Town shall evaluate each user, commercial or industrial, and
approximate within reasonable indices the proportionate part of the charge,
within the ranges fixed in column 3 of this table, which should equitably be
assessed against a commercial or industrial user and that shall be prima facie
a reasonable charge and fully assessable under this chapter. If the user
demonstrates with reasonably sufficient evidence that his assessment is
inequitable or unjust, the Town shall adjust the specific assessment to that
user; otherwise, the assessment shall remain as determined by the Town and
reported to the Town Clerk for inclusion in the monthly charge imposed. These
charges shall be added to the billing for utility charges assessing for
electric service and the amounts so paid under aggregate billings shall be
applied first to the solid waste disposal assessment, second to water
assessments and last to the electric assessment of the commercial or industrial
user and failure to pay for any of said assessments shall authorize and require
the Town to turn off electric service to the premises until all charges and the
cost of recommendation or turning on the electric service again shall and have
been paid in full. (Ord. 86-1, 6-5-1986)
4-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Littering: It shall be unlawful to place or allow to be placed any
solid waste upon the roads, streets or public or private property within this
town contrary to the provisions of Millard County ordinance 152, providing a
comprehensive plan for solid waste disposal.
   B.   Dead Animals: It shall be unlawful to place any dead animal, or part
thereof, in a container for collection.
   C.   Vehicle Construction: It shall be unlawful to transport any solid waste
in any vehicle which permits the contents to blow, sift, leak or fall
therefrom.
   D.   Scavenging: It shall be unlawful for any person to scavenge any solid
waste within the boundaries of the town.
   E.   Dumps: It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate a dump
within the boundaries of the town.
   F.   Hazardous Waste: No person shall place any hazardous waste in any
container for collection, transport, processing or disposal within the town.
(Ord. 86-1, 6-5-1986)
4-3-4: PENALTY:
In addition to the remedy of turning off water and/or electric services to
premises which is served by domestic water or which is subject to solid waste
assessments imposed by this chapter, there shall be a penalty for violation of
this chapter of not to exceed two hundred ninety nine dollars ($299.00) or by
imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days in the county jail and a violation
of this chapter by failure to pay the assessment or by refusal to comply with
any term, provision or regulation hereof shall be deemed a class C misdemeanor
and punished in accordance with law the same as class C misdemeanors. (Ord. 86-
1, 6-5-1986)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-1-2: Firearms Discharge Prohibited
5-1-3: Fireworks
5-1-4: Penalty
5-1-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah criminal code, Utah Code Annotated title
76, as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor
or class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the town. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2016 Code)
5-1-2: FIREARMS DISCHARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully discharge any firearm of any
description, or any device loaded with powder, within the limits of the town;
provided, that this section shall not apply to authorized officials if said
discharge of the firearm occurs while said officer is lawfully performing his
duty. (1976 Code § 15-6-1; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-3: FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or offer for
sale, or have in his or its possession or custody, any rocket, squib,
firecracker, roman candle, fire balloon, or other combustible or explosive, or
any article for the making of pyrotechnical displays within the limits of the
town, unless sanctioned by and with the approval of the town council. (1976
Code § 15-6-6)
5-1-4: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided by state statute, any person violating any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 15-8-1; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-2: Speed Limits
6-1-3: Angle Parking
6-1-4: Through Streets
6-1-5: Stop Intersections
6-1-6: Yield Intersections
6-1-7: Penalty
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah Traffic Code, Utah Code Annotated title 41,
as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, Class C misdemeanor or
Class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the Town. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2016 Code)
6-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on the following streets or parts of
streets:
1st North
1st South
1st East
1st West
2nd East
3rd East
4th East
Center
   B.   Thirty five (35) miles per hour when signs are erected giving notice
thereof on the following streets or parts of streets:
Main Street (Highway 91)
(1976 Code § 19-1-10; amd. 2016 Code)
6-1-3: ANGLE PARKING:
Angle parking shall be permitted on all streets. (1976 Code § 19-1-10; amd.
2016 Code)
6-1-4: THROUGH STREETS:
   A.   Authority To Erect Signs: Whenever any ordinance of this Town
designates and describes a through street, it shall be the duty of the Town
Council to place and maintain a stop sign, or where safety and efficiency
require at any intersection a yield sign, on each and every street intersecting
such through street unless traffic at any such intersection is controlled at
all times by traffic control signals; provided, however, that at the
intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the intersection of a
through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall
be erected at the approaches of either of said streets as may be determined by
the Town Council upon the basis of an engineering and traffic study. (1976 Code
§ 19-1-5; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Through Streets Designated: The following streets are designated
through streets:
1st South
2nd East at 1st North intersection
Center Street
Main Street (Highway 91)
(1976 Code § 19-1-10)
6-1-5: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Authority To Erect Signs: The Town Council shall erect and maintain a
stop sign at all stop entrances to intersections. (1976 Code § 19-1-10; amd.
2016 Code)
   B.   Stop Intersections Designated: When signs are erected giving notice
thereof, the following intersections shall constitute stop intersections: (1976
Code § 19-1-10)
All intersections entering Main Street (Highway 91).
200 East 100 North.
(1976 Code § 19-1-10; amd. 2016 Code)
6-1-6: YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Authority To Erect Signs: The Town Council shall erect and maintain a
yield sign at all yield entrances to intersections. (1976 Code § 19-1-10; amd.
2016 Code)
   B.   Yield Intersections Designated: When signs are erected giving notice
thereof, the following intersections shall be yield intersections:
All north and south streets crossing Center Street and 1st South, with the
exception of Main Street (Highway 91).
East and west traffic on 1st North at 2nd East.
(1976 Code § 19-1-10)
6-1-7: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided by State Statute, any person violating any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1976 Code § 19-1-11; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Administration
7-1-2: General Authority
7-1-3: Construction And Repair
7-1-4: Use Regulations
7-1-5: Excavations
7-1-6: Trees
7-1-7: Irrigation Ditches
7-1-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby established the office of the road
department council member, who shall be appointed by the mayor, with the
consent of the town council. (1976 Code § 16-1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Assistants: The road department council member may appoint, with the
consent of the town council, one or more assistants, as he may deem necessary,
who shall be under his direction and for whose official acts he shall be
responsible. (1976 Code § 16-1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the road department council member to
enforce all ordinances relating to streets and sidewalks, bridges and culverts
in said town, and he shall superintend all work done thereon, both public and
private, whether done under contract or otherwise; provided, that he shall at
all times be subject to and act under the direction of the town council. During
the progress of any work or improvements thereon, he shall at least once each
month, and oftener if required to do so by the town council, report the
progress or condition of such work or improvements, and shall observe and
report any breach of any contract relating to work thereon. He shall take
charge of and safely keep all tools or other materials or property belonging to
the town and employed in working the streets. He shall perform such other
duties as are or may be prescribed by law or ordinances. (1976 Code § 16-1-3;
amd. 2016 Code)
7-1-2: GENERAL AUTHORITY:
The town council shall have the power to lay out, establish, open, extend and/
or widen any street or alley, and improve, grade, pave, curb and gutter, sewer,
drain, establish parks and beautify the same, and to establish grades,
construct bridges, sidewalks, crosswalks, driveways from the curb to property
lines, culverts, lighting equipment, sewers and drains, plant or cause to be
planted, set out, cultivate and maintain lawns, grass and shade trees in the
parking spaces therein, and replace or renew any such improvements. (1976 Code
§ 16-1-4)
7-1-3: CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR:
   A.   Construction By Individuals: It shall be unlawful for any person,
either as owner, agent, servant, contractor or employee, to construct any
sidewalk in the town unless such sidewalk be constructed to lines and grades
given and established by the town council, unless special permission to deviate
from such lines and grades is first obtained from the town council. (1976 Code
§ 16-2-1)
   B.   Permit Required:
      1.   No person, either as owner, agent, servant, contractor or employee,
shall construct any permanent sidewalk in the town without first having
obtained from the office of the town council a permit to do so. The acceptance
of such a permit shall be deemed as an agreement upon the part of such person
to construct said sidewalk in accordance with the specifications furnished by
the town, as to the character and quality of the work, and if the sidewalk be
constructed of cement, the character and quality of the cement, the constituent
parts of the mixture, and the thickness of the walk. (1976 Code § 16-2-2; amd.
2016 Code)
      2.   It shall be unlawful to construct any such sidewalk in violation of
the specifications given by the proper town official. (1976 Code § 16-2-2)
   C.   Supervision: All sidewalks shall be constructed under the inspection of
the supervisor of streets or his duly authorized representative. (1976 Code §
16-2-3)
   D.   Construction Of Driveways Or Changes Of Construction: It shall be
unlawful for any person to construct any driveway across sidewalk space, or cut
or change the construction of sidewalk, curb or gutter, without first making
written application and obtaining from the town council a permit to do so. The
acceptance of such permit shall be deemed an agreement on the part of such
person to construct said driveway in accordance with specifications furnished
by the town. (1976 Code § 16-2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
7-1-4: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permit To Occupy Street With Building Materials: It shall be unlawful
for any person to occupy for use any portion of a public street for the
erection or repair of any building abutting thereon, without first making
application to and receiving from the supervisor of streets a permit
authorizing the same. Any such permit may be revoked by the supervisor of
streets, at any time, when the holder thereof fails to comply with any rule or
regulation under which it is granted, or when, in the opinion of the supervisor
of streets, the public good requires such revocation. (1976 Code § 16-4-1)
   B.   Depositing Rubbish On Streets Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person intentionally or carelessly to throw, cast, put into, drop or leave in
any street, gutter, sidewalk or public place any ashes, offal, stones, gravel,
sand, coal, dirt, manure, garbage, leaves or rubbish of any kind. (1976 Code §
16-4-2)
   C.   Gasoline Pumps Constructed On Streets Or Sidewalks Prohibited: It shall
be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct or install upon
any street in the town, or upon any sidewalk adjacent thereto, any gasoline
pump or machine for the vending of inflammable petroleum products, or any
underground storage tanks for such gasoline or other inflammable petroleum
products. (1976 Code § 16-4-3)
   D.   Obstruction Of Streets Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person,
without the consent of the town council, to cause any encroachment or
obstruction upon any street, alley or sidewalk of this town, which shall hinder
the free travel of pedestrians, automobiles or other traffic along said streets
or sidewalks or which shall obstruct the view along the same. (1976 Code § 16-
4-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Unlawful To Conduct Business On Street: It shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in or carry on any business, profession, trade, vocation or
avocation on any street or sidewalk, or in or from any automobile, vehicle,
stand or structure located in or upon the streets or sidewalks of the town,
except upon permission from the town clerk. (1976 Code § 16-4-5; amd. 2016
Code)
   F.   Unlawful To Use Streets For Display Purposes: It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to use any part of the streets or sidewalks
within the town for the purpose of displaying any goods, wares or merchandise
for sale, or to park any motor vehicle thereon for the purpose of exhibiting or
displaying the same for sale, except upon permission of the town clerk. (1976
Code § 16-4-6; amd. 2016 Code)
   G.   Damage To Road Surface Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
wilfully to damage, deface or mar any asphalt or oil surfaced highway within
the town, or to drive or move any vehicle with wheel lugs over or upon said
asphalt or oil surfaced highway, or to drag trees or other objects which may
pit or gouge the surface of said road. (1976 Code § 16-4-8)
   H.   Flooding Streets Or Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful for any person to
wilfully, carelessly or negligently flood any street or sidewalk in the town,
or to carelessly or negligently permit wastewater or water under his control to
escape in such a manner as to injure or flood any street or sidewalk. (1976
Code § 16-4-9)
7-1-5: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause
to be made any excavation in any public street or sidewalk in the town, or to
remove any gravel or other similar thing from any street or sidewalk, or to lay
any water pipe or conduit of any kind under any street or sidewalk within town,
until he has obtained a permit from the supervisor of streets. (1976 Code § 16-
5-1)
   B.   Excavations To Be Guarded:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, by or for whom any excavation
is made in a public street for any purpose, to fail to cause a barricade, rail
or other sufficient fence to be placed so as to enclose such excavation,
together with the dirt, gravel or other material thrown therefrom, and to
maintain such barricade during the whole time for which such excavation
continues; and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail to have lighted
lanterns or some other proper lights fixed to parts of such barricade, or in
some other proper manner over or near the excavation and over and near the
dirt, gravel or other material taken therefrom, and so kept beginning of
twilight through the whole of every night during all the time such excavation
exists.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person maliciously or wantonly and
without legal cause to extinguish, remove or diminish said lights or to tear
down or remove any rail, fence or barricade fixed in accordance with the
provisions of this section. (1976 Code § 16-5-2)
7-1-6: TREES:
   A.   Shade Trees: It shall be unlawful for any person to plant or cause to
be planted any tree outside their property along any sidewalk except along a
line established by the supervisor of streets. (1976 Code § 16-6-1)
   B.   Trimming Trees: Any person who is the owner or occupant of any premises
situated within the town and abutting any public street or sidewalk in this
town, is hereby required to trim and keep trimmed all growing trees on said
premises and along and upon the sidewalk in front thereof where the branches of
the trees overhang any portion of any street or sidewalk in such manner as to
interfere with, obstruct or impede the free use and enjoyment of said street or
sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any premises to
fail to keep the trees trimmed as provided in this subsection. (1976 Code § 16-
6-2)
7-1-7: IRRIGATION DITCHES:
   A.   Construction Across Street Or Sidewalk: It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any ditch across any street or sidewalk, without first
obtaining a permit to do so from the supervisor of streets. (1976 Code § 16-7-
1)
   B.   Ditches, Bridges: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
maintain or control any ditch across any street or sidewalk unless the said
ditch is bridged, paved or enclosed in a safe and suitable manner under the
direction of the supervisor of streets. (1976 Code § 16-7-2)
CHAPTER 2
CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-2-1: Title
7-2-2: Name, Description And Location
7-2-3: Definitions
7-2-4: Administration
7-2-5: Sale Of Burial Rights To Lots Or Burial Plots
7-2-6: Transfer Of Lots Or Burial Plots And Descent Of Title
7-2-7: Fees And Charges
7-2-8: Perpetual Care Fund
7-2-9: Repurchase Of Lots Or Burial Spaces
7-2-10: Interment Regulations
7-2-11: Disinterment Regulations
7-2-12: Records Maintained
7-2-13: Forfeiture Of Vacant Or Abandoned Lots Or Spaces
7-2-14: Operation Of Cemetery
7-2-15: Rights Reserved
7-2-16: Penalty
7-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the MEADOW TOWN CEMETERY ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-2: NAME, DESCRIPTION AND LOCATION:
   A.   The burial ground of the Town shall be known and designated by the name
of Meadow Town Cemetery. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
   B.   The following described real property has heretofore been and is hereby
legally designated as the Town cemetery located at 2250 West 4400 South: (Ord.
2010-1, 6-15-2010; amd. 2016 Code)
Beginning 28 rods West of the Southeast Corner of the Southwest quarter of
Section 23, Township 22 South, Range 5 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian;
thence West 23.5 rods, thence North 22 rods, thence East 23.5 rods, thence
South 22 rods to the beginning.
(Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used to clarify the meanings of words and/or
phrases as used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise clearly dictates.
The Town Attorney will be the final authority where any further interpretations
are necessary.
BLOCK: A geographical subdivision of the Meadow Town Cemetery that contains
one, two (2) or four (4) lots within its boundary.
CEMETERY: A tract of land dedicated to earth interments of the human deceased.
CERTIFICATE OF BURIAL RIGHTS: A certificate issued by the Meadow Town
Corporation describing the block, lot and plot within the Meadow Town Cemetery
to which a purchaser owns rights of burial. The certificate conveys to the
purchaser the right to burial only, and not the ownership of the described real
property, which shall remain the property of the Meadow Town Corporation.
CREMAINS: All that remains of a human body, plus its container, after the
cremation process has occurred.
GOVERNING BODY: The Mayor and Town Council of the Meadow Town Corporation,
Millard County, Utah.
INTERMENT: The disposition of the remains of a deceased human by earth burial.
LOT: A further subdivision of a block in the Meadow Town Cemetery that consists
of eight (8) adjoining graves or plot spaces that are used or intended for use
for earth interment of the human deceased.
MARKER: A memorial stone or plaque installed flush with the ground in the
tribute area of a burial space indicating the given and/or family name and
other information intended to perpetuate the memory of the deceased.
MEADOW TOWN CORPORATION, MEADOW TOWN OR THE TOWN: Terms understood to be
synonymous, and which may be used interchangeably.
MEMORIAL: A monument, marker or other commemorative item.
MONUMENT: A memorial stone extending above the ground level in the tribute area
of a burial space inscribed with the given and/or family name and other
information designed to perpetuate the memory of the deceased.
OLD SECTION OR OLD PART OF THE MEADOW TOWN CEMETERY: That part of the Meadow
Town Cemetery which generally centers around the point of the cemetery's
origin, in which there are many forgotten, lost or unidentified burials.
Attempted burials within this region have ended in unpleasant results in the
past. Burials within this region are highly discouraged or prohibited, as may
be determined under the guidance of the Sexton.
PERPETUAL CARE: The maintenance and care that Meadow Town agrees to give on a
continual basis.
PLOT: A single space of ground, or individual grave within a lot, that is used
or intended to be used for the interment and permanent disposition of human
remains by burial. A plot has a physical measurement of four feet by eight feet
(4' x 8') in most lots, but four feet by eight and one-half feet (4' x 81/2')
in some others. The definition for the term "plot" shall be synonymous with the
definitions for the terms "grave", "grave space" or "burial space".
PLOT OWNER OR PURCHASER: The owner or purchaser of burial rights or the
collateral right of use of any burial plot evidenced by a deed or certificate
of burial rights for described plot, or by proven and recognized descent or
devise from the original owner (will or trust).
RESIDENT: An individual whose legal place of inhabitation is within the
boundaries of Meadow Town and/or is the owner of taxable property there. For
the purposes of this chapter, a person is a resident of Meadow Town if the
person:
   A.   Has his/her principal place of inhabitation within Meadow Town and has
a present intention to continue residency within Meadow Town permanently.
   B.   Moves or is moved to another location for, or because of, healthcare
needs, military service or incarceration, but who does not intend to make that
location their residence shall also be considered a resident of Meadow Town.
   C.   Has legal or official ownership, individually or jointly with another,
of any real property which is subject to assessment by Meadow Town for ad
valorem Property Taxes.
RIGHT OF BURIAL OR BURIAL RIGHTS: The right for the holder of a certificate of
burial rights, eligible decedent or heir to be buried in the Meadow Town
Cemetery.
TRIBUTE AREA: That part of the surface of a grave located within thirty six
inches (36") of the head end (west boundary) of a grave, wherein memorials,
monuments and markers are allowed to be placed. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010; amd.
2016 Code)
7-2-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Generally: In administering the cemetery, the Town shall be entitled to
all rights and prerogatives granted to it by law or equity, including the
rights set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 8, as amended, or any other
subsequent amendments. The omission or failure to assert any right or
prerogative by the Town in any particular case shall not constitute a waiver of
the right.
   B.   Sexton:
      1.   There is hereby created the position of the Town Sexton, which
office shall be filled by appointment of the Mayor, with the advice and consent
of the Town Council. Other employees or contractors may be hired as seen fit by
the Governing Body when it is deemed advantageous to do so. The sexton may
delegate responsibilities to subordinate employees when required.
      2.   The sexton shall not, either directly or indirectly, act or serve as
agent, employee or salesperson for any person or company furnishing services or
materials used at the cemetery or for any person or corporation selling grave
markers or monuments. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
      3.   The sexton shall be paid on a monthly basis from the Town Treasury
in such amount as shall be fixed periodically by resolution of the Governing
Body. (Ord. 2019-2, 8-21-2018)
      4.   If the Governing Body does not employ a contractor or other designee
to open and close graves, the sexton may be paid by the Town a sum in addition
to his/her monthly salary, to open and close graves in accordance to rates set
periodically by resolution of the Governing Body for grave opening fees.
   C.   Powers And Duties Of Sexton: The sexton, under the direction of the
Mayor, shall have general supervision and administrative duties of the
cemetery, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Recommending to the Governing Body such additional rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the operation, maintenance, use and
protection of the cemetery.
      2.   Marking, locating and subdividing the cemetery into blocks, lots and
grave sites.
      3.   Maintaining a record of the location of lots and graves and
preventing any lot from being used improperly, without proper authorization or
beyond its capacity.
      4.   Keeping in proper repair the enclosure around the cemetery and
preventing its being entered by animals and, so far as practical, preventing
the destruction or defacing of any structure, marker or memorial placed or
erected therein, or any other property within the cemetery.
      5.   Keeping a duplicate plat of the cemetery and, at the request of any
eligible person wishing to purchase burial rights in any of the lots or parts
of lots, pointing out any of the lots or parts of lots for sale; and, upon
approval of any lots or part thereof, notifying the Town Clerk of such fact.
      6.   Attending to every interment in the cemetery in person or by a
competent fiduciary. The sexton shall fill up and neatly trim all graves
immediately after deposing the coffin and fill up and trim all graves that have
or thereafter may sink.
      7.   Requiring relatives of a deceased person, funeral directors and any
other person requesting burial of a body in the cemetery, to provide the sexton
with information identifying the deceased. The sexton shall, as far as possible
or practical, register the names, ages, sex, marital status, dates of birth and
death, place of death, last known address, veteran status, attending funeral
home, parentage of all persons interred therein, the name and address of the
next of kin, the place of their interment within the cemetery, the cause of
death if known, and the name of the attending physician or nurse (see appendix
A attached to the ordinance codified herein).
      8.   Keeping a true and complete record of the death and place of burial
of every person so reported to him/her. The sexton shall also keep a like
record of all permits issued in pursuance of this chapter. All records kept in
pursuance of this chapter shall be the property of the Town, and at all
reasonable times be open to the inspection of the public. At the expiration of
his/her term of office, the sexton shall turn all such property over to his/her
successor in office; and he/she shall report fully to the Governing Body as
often as is required by that body.
      9.   Keeping records and performing duties as required pursuant to Utah
Code Annotated section 26-2-18, as amended.
      10.   Opening or causing to be opened any graves in the cemetery upon
application to him/her being made by the town clerk or by any person having the
authority to make such application, and being responsible for closing all
graves.
      11.   Keeping the streets, alleys, walks and avenues in the cemetery in
good order and unobstructed.
      12.   Approving and overseeing the placement, installation and removal of
all monuments, markers, structures, trees, shrubs and any other memorial or
material object within the cemetery.
      13.   Performing or supervising the general grounds maintenance in
accordance with, but not limited to, perpetual care duties, including mowing,
trimming trees and shrubs, watering, weeding, sodding, raking, removing dead
flowers and decorations, improvements, leveling sunken graves when needed,
cleaning and removing trash, and straightening tilting stones. The sexton shall
not be required to repair or replace monuments, markers or other manner of
personal property, except when the need for repair or replacement is directly
caused by the conduct of the town or its employees.
      14.   Enforcing the provisions of this chapter with respect to the
cemetery.
      15.   Performing other such duties as may be required by the governing
body, and performing any such other duties in relation to the cemetery as are
now, or may be hereafter, provided by ordinance, order, decision or resolution
of the governing body or by the laws of the state.
      16.   Being instrumental in locating and identifying lots and graves in
the "old part" of the cemetery, to his/her best judgment, where future burials
will be discouraged or prohibited. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-5: SALE OF BURIAL RIGHTS TO LOTS OR BURIAL PLOTS:
   A.   Burial lots are a limited resource in the cemetery. Hereafter, the
governing body has the right to limit the number of burial plot sales to four
(4) plots per any one individual or entity.
   B.   Burial rights to cemetery lots shall be sold for the purpose of the
burial of said purchaser. Other persons may be buried in the lot with written
permission from the lot owner or his/her legal heir, but it will be done with
the understanding that each plot so used will subtract from the maximum number
of plots allowed for said lot owner.
   C.   Hereafter, burial rights in the cemetery will be sold to eligible
residents of the town, as defined in section
7-2-3 of this chapter. Nonresidents may purchase burial rights, but will be
subject to an increased fee structure as may be set periodically by resolution
by the governing body.
   D.   The town clerk shall be in charge of the sale of all cemetery lots, the
receipt and disposition of all fees, money, gifts or deposits, and the issuance
of certificates of burial rights.
   E.   It shall be the shared duty of the town clerk and sexton to make and
keep permanent duplicate records of all interments made in the cemetery, which
record shall at all times be open to public inspection. The record shall, among
other things, include:
      1.   An accurate plat of the cemetery, as far as feasible and possible;
      2.   The names of the owners of all burial rights that have been sold;
      3.   The correct description of all lots for sale and the price thereof
as shall be fixed periodically by resolution by the governing body;
      4.   The exact location of each interment upon each cemetery lot, and
pertinent information about the interred deceased;
      5.   Any permits incidental to burial, including transit, burial,
monument placement, transfer of ownership and disinterment permits.
   F.   After a burial rights purchase has been made through the town clerk and
full payment is deposited with the town treasurer, the clerk will issue a
certificate of burial rights under the town's official seal, and the deed will
be registered in the records of the town as evidence of ownership of the burial
rights. A copy of the certificate will also be retained. A certificate of
burial rights shall be issued for the right to burial only, for burial spaces
sold after April 29, 1985, as per Utah Code Annotated section 8-5-7, as
amended. The title to ownership of the property of the cemetery, however, shall
remain with the town.
   G.   The purchase of burial rights within any area of the cemetery shall be
made valid only by assignment of a certificate of burial rights signed and
sealed by the town clerk, indicating the precise location of purchase of said
burial rights. The precise location of said purchase is designated by the
proper combination of block, lot and plot values within a particular division
of the cemetery.
   H.   No area of the cemetery shall be considered reserved until burial
rights are paid for in full. Terms of all burial rights sales are cash or other
valid instrument payable to the town, and deposited with the town treasurer.
Payment is due in full at the time of burial rights assignment. Authority to
sell any burial rights in the cemetery is vested only in the governing body
and/or the town clerk.
   I.   The town reserves the right to recall, correct and reissue corrected
certificates of burial rights where needed.
   J.   In the case of a lost certificate of burial rights, the original owner
to burial rights or the legal heirs or the representative shall present to the
town clerk a legal positive form of identification before a new certificate can
be issued. The new certificate shall bear the stamp "duplicate of original" and
may incur fees as may be determined by resolution of the governing body. After
the town clerk is satisfied that the owner has presented sufficient proof of
identification, and that the individual is indeed the owner of record on the
official cemetery records, the new certificate shall be issued, and the
original will be canceled. Copies of the new certificate shall be kept in the
official cemetery records.
   K.   Purchasers of burial rights are subject to all rules, regulations,
future amendments, limitations and conditions imposed by the governing body,
this chapter and other town ordinances, state law and by the sexton as are
deemed necessary for the efficient care and maintenance of the cemetery.
   L.   The certificate of burial rights shall include the name of any legal
heir to said burial rights assigned at the time of the burial rights purchase.
The legal heir will be responsible for any future burials on plots purchased.
   M.   When a lot is purchased by more than one person, each person's interest
in the lot shall be specifically defined. The official owner as listed on the
certificate of burial rights will be in exclusive control of the burial rights
purchased, and must give permission in writing for all burials on said lot. No
burials will be allowed without written permission from the recorded owner or
the legal heir where applicable.
   N.   Any certificate of burial rights, or any other agreements, written or
otherwise implied, made or agreed to by anyone other than the town and the
approved party or parties shall not be valid and will not be honored.
   O.   No sale shall be made to funeral directors or others as heretofore set
forth, except that such purchase shall be part of an individual funeral service
wherein the sale of the burial right was requested by the family as part of the
individual funeral service.
   P.   The governing body reserves the right to limit the sales of burial
rights for burial purposes and intended burial purposes only, and will not
knowingly sell lots for investment purposes. No person shall be allowed to
speculate in said lots.
   Q.   All burial lots are exempt from taxation and cannot be seized for debt,
nor can they be mortgaged or otherwise encumbered.
   R.   Funeral directors making arrangements for burials shall be responsible
for all burial rights purchases and all other interment charges if not paid by
the owner or his agent.
   S.   The lawful owner of any cemetery burial right within the cemetery shall
have the responsibility to promptly provide the town clerk with any change in
the owner's/owners' mailing address(es) or change in assignment of legal heir
(s) or their lawful descendents for said burial rights.
   T.   The governing body may periodically direct and publish a booklet of
rules and regulations for the convenience of the purchasers of burial rights in
the cemetery. Such rules and regulations shall constitute a part of the terms
and conditions under which owners and users may utilize the cemetery and shall
function as a supplement to this chapter.
   U.   Plots may be purchased as singles, doubles or as half lots, not to
exceed the maximum number of plots allowed per individual as described in
subsection A of this section.
   V.   The town has the right to deny subsequent burials on any lot or plot on
which there remains unpaid balances until such balances are paid.
   W.   Where burial rights are sold or lawfully reclaimed in questionable
areas of the "old part" of the cemetery, it shall be understood that burials in
that area will be authorized for cremains only. Any burial in the "old part" of
the cemetery will be authorized only by prior approval of the sexton, wherein
he will use his best judgment. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-6: TRANSFER OF LOTS OR BURIAL PLOTS AND DESCENT OF TITLE:
   A.   The laws of the state govern the descent of title to cemetery lots, as
well as other matters relating to their ownership. It is important that, upon
the death of an owner of a burial right, the heirs or devisees of such person
file proof of ownership, or affidavit of heirship, together with the power of
one heir to represent all heirs with the town clerk, for the purpose of
correcting the record. Transfer to title of burial rights by the town shall
hereafter be by certificate of burial rights, and shall comply with Utah Code
Annotated section
8-3-2, as amended.
   B.   If the deceased burial right owner died intestate, the laws of the
state concerning descent and distribution shall be followed, unless
satisfactory proof of heirship can be shown.
   C.   All burial rights in cemetery lots purchased from the town occupy the
same position as real property at the death of the owner. Only persons whose
names appear on the cemetery records of the town will be recognized as owners
or part owners of burial rights. Transfers of burial rights from one person to
another will not be honored without approval from and through the town clerk
and signed on the appropriate form. The town clerk shall notify the sexton of
any changes in lot certificate recording (see appendix D attached to the
ordinance codified herein).
   D.   When a previously issued deed or certificate of burial rights is
purchased by, or transferred to a third party, the original certificate shall
be presented to the town clerk, and before a new certificate of burial rights
is issued covering said burial properties, the original deed or certificate
shall be canceled, and the records so changed to reflect the transfer. Transfer
from a grantor on a certificate of burial rights shall be recognized only upon
presentation and authentication by the town clerk of said certificate.
   E.   If a certificate cannot be located by an individual or a family for
presentation to the town clerk, the town clerk may make such arrangements, by
the advice and consent of the governing body, for transfer and/or burial as are
equitable and appropriate considering all the evidence and circumstances
provided as per subsection 7-2-5J of this chapter.
   F.   Burial rights may only be transferred to those persons originally
eligible to be purchasers of burial rights within the cemetery, and may be
effected only by endorsement of an assignment of such certificate of burial
rights upon the original certificate issued by the town clerk, approved by the
town clerk, and entered upon the official records of the town. Upon such
assignment, approval and record, the town clerk shall issue a new right of
burial certificate to the assignee and shall cancel and terminate upon such
records, the original certificate thus assigned. A copy of the canceled
certificate shall be kept in the official cemetery records.
   G.   Spouses or no more than two (2) unrelated persons may be joint owners
with rights of survivorship to any burial space. Burial rights may be
transferred to those persons defined as an heir, or an eligible qualifying
resident upon payment to the town of a transfer fee set forth by resolution as
provided. Notarized documents verifying relationship and certified copies of
wills or trusts are normally sufficient. If no such documentation can be
produced, the governing body may act in its own best judgment in determining
heirship or successorship. In addition, if the original owner has been deceased
for a considerable length of time and the potential for living heirs is
numerous, the person requesting the use of said lot/plot may be asked to
provide the governing body with a genealogical record identifying potential
heirs that may make a claim to said lot/plot. The governing body may then
require the person requesting the use of said lot/plot to obtain written
signatures or permission from as many of those potential heirs as possible. The
person seeking to use the lot/plot will then be asked to sign an
indemnification agreement stating that the family will hold the town harmless
from any claims if another heir attempts to claim an interest in the lot/plot
being used. See appendix E attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   H.   Transfers from residents to nonresidents will require an additional
payment of a fee, which will reflect the difference between the fees for
resident and nonresident lots/plots.
   I.   Heirs and successors to burial rights are entitled to the same use of
burial lots as the original owner and are bound by current rules and
regulations.
   J.   Burial rights may not be transferred between private individuals or for
speculative purposes. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-7: FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Purchase Price, Transfer Fees And Grave Opening Fees:
      1.   Burial rights fees, transfer fees, miscellaneous fees, memorial
permit fees and grave opening/closing charges for each cemetery burial space
shall be the amount listed in the current town fee schedule. Fees are subject
to change by resolution periodically as seen fit by the governing body.
      2.   All persons desiring to inter bodies in the cemetery shall pay in
advance to the town treasurer all service fees as shall be fixed by resolution.
The governing body may set said fees commensurate to the work to be done and
the size of the grave to be opened (cremation versus traditional burial).
      3.   The sexton shall not dig or cause to be dug, any grave in the
cemetery or perform any other burial service until all fees connected with said
burial have been paid in advance, or until proper arrangements have been made
with the governing body in writing.
   B.   Authority To Alter Fees: The governing body, by resolution, may
periodically alter any cemetery service fees to accommodate increased costs and
needed reserve funds for cemetery maintenance, operation and acquisition
requirements. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-8: PERPETUAL CARE FUND:
   A.   Established: A perpetual care fund has been established for the purpose
of providing perpetual care funding for the maintenance, care and operation of
the cemetery. The creation, funding and maintenance of such perpetual care
shall comply with applicable provisions of the laws of the state, including,
but not limited to, the uniform fiscal procedures act as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated title 10, chapter 6, as amended. The governing body shall establish,
by resolution, a perpetual care fee to be assessed and deposited in the
perpetual care fund for each grave and/or interment. All perpetual care fees
collected by the town shall be deposited in the perpetual care fund and
invested according to applicable state law.
   B.   Records Maintained: It shall be the duty of the town treasurer to keep
an accurate record of the perpetual care trust fund account, including
investments, to see that the principal portion thereof is properly invested in
accordance with resolutions of the governing body, and the laws of the state.
   C.   Borrowing Prohibited: Borrowing from the perpetual care fund is
prohibited.
   D.   Surplus Funds: Should it be found that all of said money from said
perpetual care funds shall be more than is required to pay for the operation
and upkeep of the cemetery, then said surplus shall be added to the principal
amount of the perpetual care fund herein created, and shall be so handled until
changed by enactment of an ordinance to provide for the use of said fund.
   E.   Investment Of Funds: It shall be the duty of the governing body when
funds are available for investment to direct by resolution, all purchases of
securities for the perpetual care fund or to name a suitable trustee for such
investment.
   F.   Investment Income: All income from investments held in the perpetual
care fund shall be quarterly credited to the cemetery maintenance fund for use
in providing the perpetual care as required herein.
   G.   Included Care: Perpetual care, as used in this chapter, shall include
every grave and lot in the cemetery sold since its inception, and shall include
filling of the grave, placing of topsoil upon the grave, filling and seeding or
sodding of the gravesite, watering and cutting of the grass, except in times of
drought, keeping of roads and drives in proper repair, pruning of trees and
shrubs, and keeping the cemetery in good condition.
   H.   Charges For Special Services: Charges shall be made for all other
services and improvements above and beyond perpetual care, according to the fee
schedules established by the governing body. If no fee has been established for
specific special services as requested, a reasonable sum based upon the cost to
the town shall be assessed by the governing body.
   I.   Contributions, Donations: Voluntary contributions and donations to the
perpetual care fund will be graciously accepted and appreciated.
   J.   Withdrawal From Principal Balance: Withdrawal from the principal
balance of the perpetual care fund can occur when such funds are needed for the
repurchase or retrieval of lots or plots from individuals on behalf of the
town.
   K.   Fees Include Perpetual Care: Fees charged for burial rights in the
cemetery include perpetual care. No burial rights will be sold without
perpetual care included. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-9: REPURCHASE OF LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES:
The Town shall repurchase any cemetery burial rights for the original price
paid upon the written request of the owner or his/her legal heir or
representative. Where the original price is unknown, a reasonable estimate will
be made by the Town Clerk based on the approximate time when the lot or plot
was originally purchased (see appendix C attached to the ordinance codified
herein). (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-10: INTERMENT REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to inter or cause to be interred
the corpse of any person in any part of the Town, except within a duly
authorized private or public cemetery.
   B.   The location of all blocks, lots and graves in the cemetery shall be
shown by maps and by a system of recorded measurements from fixed permanent
landmarks.
   C.   No interments will be permitted to be made on any cemetery lots or
plots for which certificate of burial rights or appropriate transfers have not
been issued, nor which have unpaid charges against them. Interments will not be
permitted until payment for burial has been received or payment is arranged by
the attending Funeral Director or other responsible party.
   D.   The Sexton and other authorized representatives of the Town shall not
be held responsible for errors in the location of graves on lots arising from
improper instructions from lot owners. The Town will not assume responsibility
for errors in opening graves when orders are given by any means of
communication other than in writing. Orders from Funeral Directors shall be
construed as orders from owners. When definite information for the location of
the gravesite is not available, the Sexton will exercise his/her best judgment
in making the location so as not to interfere with the timely conduct of
funeral services. Under no circumstances shall the Town assume responsibility
for errors in opening graves when definite instructions are not given.
   E.   Interments shall not be permitted on Sundays or holidays, except as
ordered by the County or State Health Department, or without special permission
of the Governing Body or the Sexton in writing.
   F.   No burial space shall be opened or closed except under the direction
and control of the Sexton or such other individual as is designated by the
Governing Body. This provision shall not apply to proceedings for the removal
and reinterment of bodies and cremains, where such matters are under the
supervision of the State or local Health Department or a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   G.   There is not a sufficient amount of space for two (2) children to be
buried in one plot in the cemetery. The burial of a child requires a single
plot. The interment of two (2) bodies in one grave is prohibited, except when
there is a simultaneous death and burial of either a mother or father and
infant, infant twins or two (2) infants that died at the same time; provided,
that this does not involve the burial of two (2) caskets on top of each other,
and does not in any manner encroach upon adjacent lots, graves or walkways.
Burial requirements are summarized as follows:
      1.   Adult space; burial is restricted to either one body, with the
exception where an infant could be buried in the same casket with an adult.
      2.   All burials in the cemetery, excluding the burial of cremains, are
to be made in concrete vaults. Cremain vessels may be buried in cremain vaults,
but this is optional if the ash receptacle is watertight and decay proof.
   H.   A change of location after a grave has been opened, or after interment,
will be made entirely at the expense of the owner or Funeral Director.
   I.   All outer burial vaults over three and one-half feet (31/2') in length
shall be classed as adult size. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
   J.   Funeral Directors shall contact the Sexton before establishing the time
of a funeral. Vault and grave marker companies shall contact the Sexton or the
Mayor to set up a time for delivery. No vault or headstone shall be installed
without prior notification.
   K.   No more than two (2) cremains per grave shall be allowed. To minimize
damage to the cemetery by mechanized equipment, cremain burials are to be hand
dug to a point where at least twenty four inches (24") of soil cover the burial
container. Only one memorial in the tribute area of each plot is allowed. (Ord.
2010-1, 6-15-2010; amd. 2016 Code)
   L.   No person shall scatter cremated remains within the cemetery.
   M.   A Funeral Director's presence is not necessary for cremain burial,
provided all legal permits and documentation concerning the deceased have been
satisfied as per State law and Town cemetery ordinances. However, burial
permission and Sexton assistance must be obtained from the Town for any burial
of cremains, and will be treated as a regular burial.
   N.   The appropriate certificate of burial rights for the burial space
involved, together with the appropriate identification of the person to be
buried therein, where necessary, shall be presented to the cemetery Sexton and
the Town Clerk prior to interment, who shall determine if the person has the
legal right to be buried in the burial space before interment is allowed.
   O.   Where it has been requested to inter someone on a lot that is not the
legally recorded owner of burial rights for that lot as evidenced by the Town's
official records and a certificate of burial rights, permission from the
legally recorded owner, or their heir, must be secured in writing before any
burial is authorized. The written authorization from the legal owner or their
heir shall be kept as part of the cemetery records.
   P.   All legal burial or transit permits are required as per Utah Code
Annotated section 26-2-17, as amended, if the burial is not attended to by a
licensed funeral home, or if the body has been transported across State lines.
   Q.   The burial of possessions is not allowed in the cemetery. An exception
would be where such item can be placed directly in the casket with the
deceased. Pet and animal burials are not allowed.
   R.   Not less than seventy two (72) hours' notice, or three (3) working days
in the case of the involvement of a Sunday or holiday, shall be given in
advance of any time of any funeral to allow for the preparation and opening of
the burial space.
   S.   All gravesites shall be oriented in the traditional east/west direction
with the wife being buried to the left of the husband (as viewed while standing
on the western end of the plot facing east), and memorials shall be placed on
the west end of the site in the tribute area. The main inscription on the
gravestone shall preferably face west. No burial shall interfere with any
existing adjacent burial, walkway or future burials.
   T.   It shall be understood that, where burial rights are sold to lots that
contain trees or other obstacles, there may be burial plots that are unusable.
In such case, normal rates for lots without trees will still apply; trees or
other obstacles may not be removed and the plots are sold "as is". This shall
be noted on the certificate of burial rights. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
   U.   All conventional graves, with the exclusion of cremain burials, shall
be opened to a minimum depth of four and one- half feet (41/2') from the
surface grade. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010; amd. 2016 Code)
7-2-11: DISINTERMENT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Disinterment of a body once properly interred shall not be made without
an order signed by the Health Department or other governmental agency or
governmental body having authority to order such disinterment. Graves shall not
be opened for inspection, except for an official investigation pursuant to
proper order.
   B.   No disinterment of a body will be made until the written legal consent
of the next of kin, where applicable, of the person whose body is to be
disinterred and all other legal documentation has been submitted to the Mayor
as per Utah Code Annotated section 26-2-17, as amended, and other statutes.
   C.   If the required consent from next of kin cannot be obtained for
disinterment, a person may petition a court of competent jurisdiction for a
disinterment order.
   D.   Charges made by the Town for disinterment will be made commensurate
with the difficulty of the work and are payable in advance. The minimum charge
will be equal to twice the current charge, plus all expenses for opening a
grave of similar size. Burial rights owners or their heirs desiring graves to
be opened shall secure the necessary disinterment permit from the State
authorities and deliver it to the Sexton and Town Clerk.
   E.   The Town Clerk shall, as part of the official cemetery records, retain
all information and permits regarding any disinterment and/or reinterment in
the cemetery.
   F.   When a person has died of a contagious disease, the interment/
disinterment procedure shall be in strict accordance with the rules and under
the direction of the State Board of Health. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
   G.   At least a ten (10) day notice is required prior to any disinterment or
removal. All fees for disinterment and reinterment shall be prepaid. There will
be no winter disinterment or removal unless mandated by law. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-
15-2010; amd. 2016 Code)
   H.   Any charges for removal and replacement of monuments or markers, where
applicable, will be the sole responsibility of the individual requesting
disinterment and/or reinterment and will be in addition to the cost of
disinterment services. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-12: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
The Town Clerk shall maintain the master record concerning all burials,
issuance of burial/disinterment permits, and any perpetual care fund, separate
and apart from the other financial records of the Town, and the same shall be
open to public inspection during reasonable business hours by appointment.
(Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-13: FORFEITURE OF VACANT OR ABANDONED LOTS OR SPACES:
   A.   It shall be the policy of the Town to comply with the provisions of
Utah Code Annotated title 8, chapter 5, as amended, regarding the reversion of
unused graves. What is herein defined as a grave is referred to in Utah Code
Annotated as a burial lot.
   B.   The Town shall have the discretion to reclaim, redeem or recover any
abandoned or unused lots or parcels conveyed by deed or certificate, with or
without restrictions, by following the procedures set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 8-5-1 et seq., as amended, or any other applicable law. It is
the sincere desire of the Governing Body to exhaust all reasonable, fair and
legal avenues of pursuit before title to any burial right is reclaimed by the
Town. Anyone wishing to sell a burial right under a previously issued
certificate of burial rights must sell it back to the Town as per section
7-2-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-14: OPERATION OF CEMETERY:
   A.   Monuments And Markers:
      1.   The placement of memorials is done so at a purchaser's own risk,
shall be accomplished under the direction of the Sexton, and shall comply with
all requirements herein enumerated. The Town assumes no obligation or
responsibility to repair or replace markers or monuments damaged by an owner or
third party, or damaged as a result of a failure to comply with the directions
of the Sexton, or failure to comply with the following regulations:
         a.   No memorial shall be placed in the cemetery without first
receiving a written permit from the Town Clerk approving the size and type of
monument desired (see appendix B attached to the ordinance codified herein).
The said permit will be reviewed and signed by the Sexton or other Town
representative upon his/her approval. The Sexton will mark out the appropriate
area within the tribute area of the grave before memorial placement is allowed.
Purchasers of memorials are encouraged to consult with the Sexton prior to
making their memorial purchase to ensure it concurs with cemetery requirements.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or place any
monument or marker on any lot in the cemetery, unless the same shall be placed
in an approved concrete foundation six inches (6") deep or deeper, if deemed
necessary by the Sexton for the type of monument being placed, and with a
concrete apron (lawn mower strip) not less than six inches (6") wide around
said monument. The concrete apron is to be constructed flush with the ground to
facilitate mowing and trimming.
         c.   All memorials must be constructed of stone, bronze or other
equally durable composition and shall face the same direction and be in line
with the markers and memorials around them. Memorials constructed of wood or
other perishable materials are not allowed. Footstones, except those already
present, shall not be allowed.
         d.   Markers placed in the tribute area shall be installed flat and
flush with the surrounding ground.
         e.   No memorial may be erected on any lot or grave until such lot or
grave space is fully paid for.
         f.   Exceedingly large or unusual monuments that may impair
maintenance work in the cemetery, complicate future burials, encroach on
adjacent lots, or impede the sprinkler spray pattern within the cemetery are
prohibited.
         g.   Crypts, mausoleums, columbariums and other structures beyond the
ability of the Town to accommodate are prohibited.
         h.   The placement of memorials on unfilled graves or lots is
prohibited. An exception to this rule would be when one party sharing a
memorial (as in a double marker) has been buried and the remaining plot sharing
the memorial remains unused.
      2.   Monument companies are responsible for all damages to cemetery
grounds and surrounding memorials that occur during their installation of a
marker, memorial or monument. Monument companies and all other contractors must
carry liability insurance coverage for not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for coverage for all work done within the cemetery. Any damage
to turf, trees, shrubs, flowers or structures resulting from the delivery or
setting of said memorial work will be assessed to the person, firm or
corporation responsible for the memorial work. Memorial contractors shall make
every effort to remove any excess debris resulting from their activity.
      3.   The Town shall not be responsible for any damage, loss, theft or
vandalism to any monument, marker, adornment or floral display, even if it is
located within the tribute area. Although great care is taken to avoid any
damage during routine mowing and maintenance work, the Town cannot be
responsible for inadvertent scratches and nicks that may occur to memorials
during cemetery maintenance work. It shall be acknowledged by burial rights
owners that such a risk is inherent to the placement of said memorials on
cemetery lots.
      4.   Medallions and special service emblems that commemorate armed
services participation and veterans' organizations are allowed, but are
encouraged to be permanently attached to monuments or the monument bases in
such a fashion so as not to incur damage, or to interfere with cemetery
maintenance.
      5.   Only one monument, marker or memorial shall be permitted per burial
space or one marker or memorial in total where two (2) adjoining plots share
that marker or memorial.
      6.   No monument, memorial or marker may be removed from cemetery lots or
plots, or taken from the cemetery, without written notification and involvement
of the Sexton.
      7.   The width of single markers commemorating single burial plots,
including the concrete mowing strip, shall not exceed forty four inches (44"),
and shall be placed within the tribute area. A single monument must not exceed
thirty six inches (36") in height if used.
      8.   Monuments for adjacent graves that commemorate more than one person
(doubles) shall not exceed seventy two inches (72") on width, including the
width of the concrete mowing strip, or thirty six inches (36") in height, and
shall be centered over the contiguous graves. The memorial shall be placed
within the tribute areas only, and shall not encroach on any nearby graves or
walkways.
      9.   Only a marker, memorial or monument shall be permitted on the
gravesite. The following items shall not be permitted: chairs, settees,
benches, hanging baskets, wire, glass containers, glass covered boxes, boxes
for the preservation of flowers, wreaths, statues, ornaments and flowerpots.
Other questionable items are subject to the discretion of the Sexton and/or the
Governing Body, and may be removed without notice. No monuments will be allowed
before a person has been buried.
      10.   The Town assumes no responsibility for assuring that ordered
markers, memorials or monuments are proper for the area and for name placement
on the marker; therefore, a written permit for all memorials prior to their
placement is required. A minimum of seventy two (72) hours' notice is required
before the setting of any monument is allowed.
      11.   The Town reserves the right to move or cause to be moved, any
monuments for the purpose of machine digging graves and cemetery improvements.
Monuments so moved will be replaced to their original positions following
burials or improvements.
      12.   Monuments and markers are generally for the purpose of identifying
those individuals who are interred at the cemetery. Any person requesting to
place a monument or marker in the cemetery for any other purpose must submit a
written request to the Governing Body and receive written approval. Each
request will be considered on a case by case basis. The decision shall be in
harmony with the purpose of the cemetery.
      13.   Concrete or stone protective slabs covering individual graves are
prohibited.
      14.   The funeral director or other entity involved with the burial shall
be required to place a temporary marker in the tribute area of the grave
immediately following the funeral. The placement of permanent memorials is
encouraged within one year of burial.
      15.   Since memorials are private property, the upkeep and maintenance of
individual memorials shall be the responsibility of the owner.
      16.   The unauthorized placement of any memorial shall result in a charge
for said memorial removal or replacement, at the expense of the instigator, and
other possible punitive measures.
   B.   Flowers, Decorations And Shrubbery:
      1.   The decoration of lots or graves with fencing, edging, boxes, toys,
shells, images, sculptures, benches and statues (ceramic or otherwise), wire
screens, arbors, trellises, individual artificial flowers anchored in the
ground or any objects of a similar nature is prohibited without the written
permission from the Governing Body and/or Sexton. No glass or ceramic objects
or containers of any kind are permitted.
      2.   Winter decorations, grave blankets, decorative balls, artificial
flowers and wreaths, are permitted between November 1 and April 1. During this
time, tripods are permitted for those decorations not secured directly to the
headstone.
      3.   Cemetery personnel will remove all seasonal decorations, as well as
any decorations which have become unsightly in appearance, or a nuisance to the
upkeep of the cemetery or to other lot owners. Lot owners who wish to save fall
and/or winter decorations shall remove them before April 1. The Town and
cemetery personnel shall not be liable for the removal of such decorations.
      4.   The Town and cemetery personnel will not be responsible for loss or
damage to any decoration or article left upon any lot, grave or other part of
the cemetery.
      5.   To facilitate mowing and trimming, no elevated mounds shall be built
over graves and no lot shall be filled above the grade established by the Town.
      6.   Unsightly and dangerous objects will not be permitted as grave
decorations and, when used, they may be removed without notice.
      7.   No responsibility will be assumed for the protection and maintenance
of flowers, wreaths, emblems or other items used at funerals. As soon as such
items become unsightly or faded, they will be removed. Family members are
encouraged to remove items they desire to keep after the burial service has
been concluded.
      8.   Plantings shall be permitted only under the supervision and approval
of the Sexton, and after receiving written permission therefor. Plantings
placed on a lot without permission will be removed without notice.
      9.   The Sexton may remove all floral pieces left on new graves longer
than five (5) days.
      10.   To protect the beauty of the grounds of the cemetery, artificial
flowers will not be allowed on grave surfaces during the mowing and maintenance
season, April 1 to October 31, inclusive, except for Memorial Day decorations
which must be removed within seven (7) days after Memorial Day. The Sexton
shall have all artificial flowers and wreaths remaining on the graves after
April 1 removed, and seven (7) days after Memorial Day.
      11.   Floral displays may be placed in permanent depressed metal vases
set adjacent to and/or in line with a marker, memorial or monument and extend
not more than six inches (6") from the base of the marker, memorial or
monument.
      12.   During the mowing season, April 2 to October 31, all flowers and
other decorations must be confined to the headstone, preferably attached to, or
in a permanent receptacle or vase installed in its cement apron, or the
memorial proper. Glass containers and items driven into the ground, such as
iron, wires, sticks and pegs, are prohibited and may be removed upon discovery.
Artificial flowers and/or wreaths are permitted only if affixed to the marker
in such manner so as not to interfere with general maintenance practices.
      13.   As a special mark of respect to those who have served our country,
the American flag should be displayed only on the graves of those persons who
have honorably served in the armed forces of the United States of America in
the provided receptacle.
   C.   Grounds Maintenance:
      1.   The Town reserves the right of easement over and across any lot or
burial space in the cemetery for the maintenance and repair of turf,
installation or maintenance of water pipes or water lines for the improvement
of the cemetery, and for the opening and closing of adjacent graves. The Sexton
will be responsible to see that all the work is completed and the surface
returned to proper condition after such installation or maintenance work.
      2.   No grading, leveling or excavating upon a burial space shall be
allowed without the written permission of the Sexton.
      3.   The Sexton reserves the right to direct the planting of trees and
shrubs in the cemetery.
      4.   Mounds, which hinder the free use of a lawn mower or other gardening
apparatus, are prohibited.
      5.   The Sexton shall have the right and authority to remove and dispose
of any and all growth, emblems, displays or containers that through decay,
deterioration, damage or otherwise, become unsightly, a source of litter or a
maintenance problem.
      6.   Surfaces other than sod are prohibited.
      7.   All refuse of any kind or nature including, among others, dried
flowers, wreaths, papers and flower containers must be removed or deposited in
trash containers located within the cemetery.
      8.   All Eagle Scout projects shall be reviewed by the Governing Body and
the Sexton prior to approval. The cost of the materials for said projects shall
be borne by the Town.
      9.   The Sexton shall, whenever required, furnish the true lines of a lot
according to an official survey, and shall prevent and prohibit any markings of
the lot except by official landmarks.
   D.   Conduct Within Cemetery:
      1.   No children under the age of twelve (12) years will be allowed in
the cemetery unless accompanied by an adult responsible for their conduct.
      2.   No person shall leave any refuse or rubbish in the cemetery, except
that which they deposit in the receptacles provided.
      3.   The speed limit is ten (10) miles per hour on all drives within the
cemetery.
      4.   Vehicles shall remain on cemetery drives. Excepting maintenance
vehicles, driving on the lawns is prohibited.
      5.   No person shall pick or mutilate any flowers, either wild or
domestic, or disturb any tree, shrub or other plant material.
      6.   No person shall use any form of advertising on cemetery premises.
      7.   It shall be unlawful to engage in recreational or other
inappropriate activities on the cemetery property.
      8.   It is unlawful to bring, cause or permit a dog or any animal to
enter the cemetery, except seeing eye dogs, or where horses are used as part of
the funeral cortege, unless confined inside a vehicle.
      9.   The consumption of alcoholic beverages on cemetery property is
prohibited.
      10.   It shall be unlawful to engage in any activity that may cause
damage to any structure, monument or other fixture within the cemetery.
      11.   The hours of visitation for the cemetery shall be from dawn until
dusk. No one is allowed in the cemetery beyond the hours of visitation without
permission from the Sexton.
      12.   ATVs and other off road vehicles are prohibited except for those
conducting maintenance work within the cemetery.
   E.   Vault Requirements:
      1.   In all burials, the casket shall be enclosed within an approved
standard concrete burial vault capable of withstanding:
         a.   A passage load of five (5.0) metric tons after burial; and
         b.   A ground probe used to locate existing vaults; and
         c.   The inevitable contact made by excavation equipment during
subsequent adjacent burials.
      2.   The concrete burial vault shall be completely sealed when assembled,
and shall have no openings or other entrances for outside elements or water
when in service.
      3.   The vault is to be installed in each burial space before interment
and approved by the Sexton. An exception to this rule shall be with those
individuals who are cremated, whose remains must be deposited in a waterproof,
nondecaying container and buried to a depth where at least twenty four inches
(24") of soil cover the cremain container or vault. A cremain vault for the
cremain container is allowed but not required.
      4.   Burial vaults made of fiberglass, PVC plastic, wood, steel or any
material other than concrete are strictly prohibited in the cemetery. (Ord.
2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-15: RIGHTS RESERVED:
   A.   The Governing Body reserves the right, without notice, to make
temporary exceptions, suspensions or modifications in any of these rules and
regulations, when, in their judgment, the same are advisable and such temporary
exceptions, suspensions or modifications shall in no way be considered as
affecting the general application of such rules and regulations.
   B.   In all matters not specifically covered by these rules and regulations,
the Governing Body reserves the right to take any action which in its judgment
is deemed reasonable. Such action shall be binding upon the lot holder,
cemetery visitors and all parties concerned.
   C.   The Governing Body reserves the right at any time to change, alter,
repeal, rescind or add to these rules and regulations, or any part thereof, or
to adopt any new rule or regulation with respect to the cemetery. The
certificate of burial rights and this chapter, including any amendments hereto,
constitute the sole agreement between the Town and burial rights holders. The
statement of any employee or agent, unless confirmed in writing by an
authorized representative of the Governing Body shall in no way bind the Town.
(Ord. 2010-1, 6-15-2010)
7-2-16: PENALTY:
   A.   In the event that any of the sections or subsections thereof as
prescribed by this chapter are violated, the Town shall be authorized to assess
a penalty against the violating party, whether it be the family of the
deceased, private contractors, visitors or the mortuary involved. (Ord. 2010-1,
6-15-2010)
   B.   Without altering or diminishing the effect of any other sanction,
penalty or consequence provided in this chapter elsewhere, the violation of,
failure to observe or omission to comply with any provision of this chapter,
shall be a criminal offense punishable as a class B misdemeanor as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of continued violation shall be a separately
punishable offense and this section shall be in addition to any other penalty,
sanction, consequence or remedy for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-1,
6-15-2010; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Title
7-3-2: Property Designated
7-3-3: Definitions
7-3-4: Administration
7-3-5: Rules And Regulations
7-3-6: Reservations And Permits
7-3-7: Rights Reserved
7-3-8: Penalty
7-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the MEADOW TOWN PUBLIC PARK ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 2012-1, 3-20-2012)
7-3-2: PROPERTY DESIGNATED:
The following described real property has heretofore been and is hereby legally
designated as the Meadow Town public park:
Beginning at the point 110' east from the NW corner of Block 7, Plat A, Meadow
Town Survey, then 256' east, then 298.5' south, then 67.51' west, then 270.5'
south, then 20.5' west, then 68' north then 216' west, then 50' north, then
120' west, then 371.5' north, then 77' east, then 62' north to the starting
point.
   (Ord. 2012-1, 3-20-2012)
7-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used to clarify the meanings of words and/or
phrases as used in this chapter unless the context otherwise clearly dictates.
The town attorney will be the final authority where any further interpretations
are necessary.
GOVERNING BODY: The mayor and town council of the Meadow Town Corporation,
Millard County, Utah.
MEADOW TOWN CORPORATION, MEADOW TOWN OR THE TOWN: Shall be terms understood to
be synonymous, and which may be used interchangeably.
THE PARK, THE MEADOW TOWN PARK AND THE MEADOW TOWN PUBLIC PARK: Shall be terms
to be used synonymously. (Ord. 2012-1, 3-20-2012)
7-3-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   In administering the public park, the town shall be entitled to all
rights and prerogatives granted to it by law or equity, or any other subsequent
amendments. The omission or failure to assert any right or prerogative by the
town in any particular case shall not constitute a waiver of the rights.
   B.   The management of the public park shall be administered collectively by
the mayor and town council. Other employees or contractors may be hired as seen
fit by the governing body when it is deemed advantageous to do so.
   C.   The governing body, by resolution, may periodically alter any park or
service fees to accommodate increased costs and needed reserve funds for park
maintenance, operation and acquisition requirements. (Ord. 2012-1, 3-20-2012)
7-3-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dangerous Activities: All activities which endanger the health, safety
and welfare of the town park users shall be prohibited.
   B.   Nighttime Use: No persons are permitted in the town park during the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to six o'clock (6:00) A.M., except in
those lighted areas designated for extended use activities or unless permission
is obtained from the governing body. The baseball diamond lighting shall be
turned off at eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., and the pavilion lighting shall be
turned off by twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. The governing body reserves the
right to lock any gate or door offering access to the park, facility or
building in order to restrict the nighttime usage thereof.
   C.   Intoxicating Liquor, Narcotics: The sale, consumption or possession of
intoxicating liquors or beverages and dangerous or narcotic drugs, or gambling
of any kind is prohibited in the public park and recreational areas:
      1.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be allowed and a permit shall not be
issued for any function where alcohol will be served in the public park or
parking lot.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to possess
or use a controlled substance analog or a controlled substance in the public
park, unless it was obtained under a valid prescription or order.
      3.   No person shall be under the influence of any intoxicating liquor in
the park to such a degree that the person would violate state public
intoxication laws.
   D.   Camping: No person shall camp, lodge or pitch a tent, fly, lean to,
tarpaulin or any other type of camping equipment in the public park or
playground, except in cases of local emergency as declared by the mayor.
   E.   Grill Usage: When charcoal grills are in use, they must not be placed
on tables, landscaped areas or other areas where heat may kill vegetation or
where the embers therefrom may mar or ignite the surface.
   F.   Destruction: It is unlawful to cut, break, injure, deface or disturb
any trees, shrubs, plants, buildings, monuments, fences, benches, tables or
other structures, apparatus, fixture or property; or pluck, pull up, cut, take
or remove any shrub, bush, plant or flower; or mark or write upon any structure
or apparatus.
   G.   Handbill Distribution: It is unlawful to distribute any handbills or
circulars, or to post, place or erect any bills, notices, papers or advertising
devices in or on the circumference of the public park.
   H.   Vehicles:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to drive or park any vehicle over or across any
park or public property of the town except on the streets or parking lots
provided therefor, or as approved by the governing body. Only vehicles or
equipment approved by the governing body shall traverse any lawn area. No all-
terrain vehicles, off road vehicles or snowmobiles shall at any time be
operated within the town park. This does not pertain to town maintenance
vehicles used in the discharge of their duties. (Ord. 2012-1, 3-20-2012)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride bicycles, skateboards,
scooters or other similar wheeled toys or vehicles in the park or in the town
pavilion, excluding maintenance vehicles. Anyone bringing such items to the
park must leave the items parked or lying on the edge of the park. The penalty
for anyone caught disobeying this subsection will be a warning citation for the
first time offender. Anyone caught disobeying this subsection a second time
will have their bicycle, skateboard, scooter, etc., impounded for a period of
time as decided by the governing body and an impound fee charged as set by the
governing body. (Ord. 87-3, 12-3-1987; amd. 2016 Code)
   I.   Fires: No fires shall be lit, created or allowed within the public
park, except in designated fire pits.
   J.   Firearms: Firearms of any description, including, but not limited to,
air rifles, spring guns, archery equipment, wrist rockets, slings, paint guns,
or any other forms of weapons potentially harmful to or dangerous to human
safety are prohibited unless such activity is approved by the governing body.
   K.   Dogs, Animals: Dogs are not allowed in the park, whether leashed or
not. No person shall lead, let loose or bring any animal of any species in the
public park unless it is a "service animal", defined as any guide dog, signal
dog or any other animal individually trained to provide assistance to an
individual with a disability, shall be allowed to enter and be in the park when
accompanied by the animal's owner.
   L.   Sound Amplification Devices: No person shall operate a sound
amplification device within the park which is clearly audible at a distance of
seventy five feet (75') from the device without approval of the governing body.
   M.   Refuse, Trash: No person shall dump, deposit or leave any rubbish,
waste, garbage or refuse or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be left
anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles
where these are provided. Where receptacles are not provided or full; all such
rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible
for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere.
   N.   Behavior: All persons shall respect the rights of others, the
reservation signs and any specifically posted rules and regulations at the
facilities.
   O.   Fireworks: No person shall discharge or have in their possession, any
fireworks or other explosive devices in the public park.
   P.   Failure To Leave: It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to leave
the park if after having violated any law or written rule or regulation of the
town concerning conduct on said property, has been ordered to leave by a town
employee. It shall also be unlawful for any such person who has been so ordered
to leave, to return to that park within twenty four (24) hours of having been
ordered to leave.
   Q.   Nuisances: It shall be a nuisance and unlawful for any person to use
threatening, abusive, insulting or indecent language, to commit any obscene or
indecent act, to fight or to create a public disturbance, or to be under the
influence of alcohol or drugs, or to engage in any activity that threatens the
safety or well being of other persons, or to otherwise disturb the peace of
park users by begging, soliciting, making undue noise, or engaging in
disruptive activities in the public park. (Ord. 2012-1, 3-20-2012)
7-3-6: RESERVATIONS AND PERMITS:
The reservation of a park or recreation area, including its facilities, and
permits for special events in the public park shall be obtained by application
to the town clerk in accordance with the following procedure:
   A.   Application: A person seeking a reservation or permit shall file an
application in such form as is on file with the town park superintendent or
other town representative (see appendix A attached to the ordinance codified
herein).
   B.   Standards For Park Reservations: The standards required for issuance of
a reservation for the park shall include the following:
      1.   The proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere with
or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety, recreation or
the general public's enjoyment of the park.
      2.   The proposed activity or uses that are reasonably anticipated will
not include violence, crime or disorderly conduct.
      3.   The proposed activity will not entail an extraordinary or burdensome
expense by the town.
      4.   The facilities desired have not been reserved for other use on the
date and hour requested in the application.
   C.   Number Of Days Permitted: Any person may reserve areas of the park and
recreational areas, including facilities, for the use and enjoyment of a group
or organization for a period not exceeding two (2) consecutive days.
   D.   Availability: All reservations are subject to availability on a first
come, first serve basis.
   E.   Fee: A reservation fee shall be placed with the town clerk. This fee
shall be in such amount as established by resolution of the town council and
may be revised upon occasion according to need. The fee will be reimbursed to
the permit applicant, if, in the opinion and to the satisfaction of a
representative of the town, the park grounds and facilities are left clean and
undamaged. Additional fees may be required if the use of park lights is
desired.
   F.   Calendar Maintained: The town park superintendent shall maintain a
reservation calendar for the facilities.
   G.   Notice Of Reservation Posted: At least one day in advance of any
reservation, the town park superintendent shall post notice of the reservation
on the areas and facilities to be used. Notice shall include the name of the
applicant, the date and time of the reservation of the areas and facilities,
and the length of the reservation.
   H.   Revocation: A holder of a reservation shall be bound by all park rules
and regulations and all applicable ordinances as though the same were inserted
in said permit and reservation. Failure to follow rules or prepayment of fees
shall result in the revocation of the permit or reservation. (Ord. 2012-1, 3-
20-2012)
7-3-7: RIGHTS RESERVED:
   A.   The governing body reserves the right, without notice, to make
temporary exceptions, suspensions or modifications in any of these rules and
regulations, when, in their judgment, the same are advisable and such temporary
exceptions, suspensions or modifications shall in no way be considered as
affecting the general application of such rules and regulations.
   B.   In all matters not specifically covered by these rules and regulations,
the governing body reserves the right to take any action which in its judgment
is deemed reasonable. Such action shall be binding upon park visitors and all
parties concerned.
   C.   The governing body reserves the right at any time to change, alter,
repeal, rescind or add to these rules and regulations, or any part thereof, or
to adopt any new rule or regulation with respect to the park. The statement of
any employee or agent, unless confirmed in writing by an authorized
representative of the governing body, shall in no way bind the town. (Ord.
2012-1, 3-20-2012)
7-3-8: PENALTY:
The penalty for violating this chapter shall be an infraction and subject the
violator to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2012-1, 3-20-2012; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Administration
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Water Department
8-1-4: Application For Services
8-1-5: Rates And Connection Fees
8-1-6: Disposition Of Funds
8-1-7: Individual Units
8-1-8: Use Without Payment, Damage To System, Pollution
8-1-9: Delinquency; Discontinuance Of Service
8-1-10: Termination Of Service, Change Of Service, Disconnects, Reconnects
8-1-11: Prohibited Acts And Activities
8-1-12: Interconnections, Cross Connections
8-1-13: Liability For Damages
8-1-14: Location Of Private Lines
8-1-15: Facilities In Good Repair
8-1-16: Quality Of Service Pipe
8-1-17: Faulty Equipment
8-1-18: Sprinkling Vehicles
8-1-19: Nonliability Of Town For Damages
8-1-20: Water Not Supplied To Motors, Siphons
8-1-21: Scarcity Of Water
8-1-22: Permits For Installations
8-1-23: Extensions Of System By Developers
8-1-24: Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
8-1-25: Rights Reserved
8-1-26: Penalty
8-1-1: ADMINISTRATION:
In administering the Town water system, the Town shall be entitled to all
rights and prerogatives granted to it by law or equity, including the rights
set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 54, or any other subsequent amendments.
The omission or failure to assert any right or prerogative by the Town in any
particular case shall not constitute a waiver of the right. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-
2009)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
APPLICANT: A person, group of people, business or corporation applying for a
permit under this chapter.
BACK PRESSURE: An elevation of pressure in the downstream piping system (i.e.,
pump, elevation of piping or steam and/or air pressure) above the Meadow Town
water system pressure.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the Meadow Town water utility potable water supply system from any source
caused by the sudden reduction of pressure in the Meadow Town water system
potable water supply system.
BACKFLOW: The undesirable flow of water or mixtures of water and other liquids,
gases or other substances under positive or reduced pressure into the Meadow
Town water utility potable supply of water from any source.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION: A means designed to prevent backflow caused by back
pressure of back siphonage; most commonly categorized as air gap, reduced
pressure principle assembly, double check valve assembly, pressure vacuum
breaker assembly, back siphonage vacuum breaker (spill resistant vacuum
breaker) assembly, atmospheric vacuum breaker, hose connection vacuum breaker,
hose connection backflow preventer, backflow preventer with intermediate
atmospheric vent, and barometric loop.
COMMERCIAL: Meadow Town water system customer not within residential or
nonresidential standards, including, but not limited to, businesses or
corporations.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the Meadow
Town water system, and the other containing water from a private source, water
of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases or chemicals, whereby there
may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on
the pressure differential between the two (2) systems.
CULINARY WATER: Potable water service for residential use.
CUSTOMER: Any person described herein who receives water service from Meadow
Town.
METER: A device that records gallons of water used.
NEW CONNECTION: A new service provided by Meadow Town for nonresidential,
residential or other than residential customers.
OTHER THAN RESIDENTIAL: Service intended for use other than residential or
nonresidential purposes, such as farming, businesses or corporations.
OUTSIDE TAP CONNECTION: Any customer having a connection to the Meadow Town
culinary water system that exists beyond the corporate limit.
RESIDENTIAL: Water supplied by Meadow Town for use by individual family
dwellings and their property.
SHUT OFF: The terminating of Meadow Town water service.
STOCK WATERING: An outside tap connection existing for the sole purpose of
watering domestic animals. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-3: WATER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Created: The Culinary Water Department of the Town is hereby created.
It shall administer the operation and maintenance of the culinary water system
of the Town.
   B.   Superintendent: The Mayor may appoint, by and with the approval of the
Town Council (hereinafter called the Governing Body), a competent person to the
position of Superintendent of the Water Department. If no Superintendent is
appointed, the Mayor and Town Council shall serve as Superintendent.
   C.   Duties Of Superintendent: The Superintendent of the system shall manage
and supervise the system pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and
pursuant to resolutions, rules and regulations adopted by the Town Council from
time to time prescribing his/her powers and duties and directing the manner and
frequency with which he/she shall make reports to the Mayor relating to the
water system. All of the functions and activities of the Superintendent shall
be carried on under the direction of the Mayor or Council member appointed by
the Mayor. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-4: APPLICATION FOR SERVICES:
   A.   Culinary Water Connection And Service: Any person, other than a
subdivider or developer seeking multiple connections, who desires or is
required to secure a new connection to the culinary system, shall file an
application with the Water Department for each such connection. Existing
connections must stay with their original service address; transfers of water
connections are not permitted. The water connection must have a designated
service address and cannot go to a different address if land is sold; the water
right must stay with the original service address. If property is sold, a new
agreement must be signed. No applications for new service connections will be
granted without a building permit. The written and signed connection
application can be found as appendix C attached to the ordinance codified
herein.
   B.   Nonowner Application; Agreement Of Owner: Applications for water
service made by the tenant of any owner must, in addition to the requirements
of subsection A of this section, be guaranteed by an agreement signed by the
owner of the premises or his duly authorized agent, as specified in appendix D
attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   C.   Outside Tap Connection Applicant: An application for a connection
outside the corporate limits of the Town shall be required. Appendix E attached
to the ordinance codified herein details this application. No applications will
be accepted for service out of Town limits with the exception of existing,
recognized connections. Outside connections declared as stock watering cannot
be converted to a culinary connection. Appendix A attached to the ordinance
codified herein outlines all out of Town connections, their exact location, and
their designation as either stock watering or residential. No applications for
home hookups on existing outside connections will be accepted. The water
connection must have a designated service address and cannot go to a different
address if land is sold; the water right must stay with the original service
address. Before any annexation will be granted, applicant must surrender
developed and deeded water rights approved for potable water that meets
culinary requirements for State standards to the Town. Amounts will be four (4)
acre-feet per acre (refer to appendix B attached to the ordinance codified
herein for division of water rights details). (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009; amd. 2016
Code)
8-1-5: RATES AND CONNECTION FEES:
   A.   Generally: The rates, penalty fee for delinquency in payment,
connection fee, inspection fee, reconnection fees, and other charges incidental
to the connection and services from the Town culinary water system shall be
fixed from time to time by resolution enacted by the Town Council. The Town
Council may, from time to time, promulgate rules for levying, billing,
guaranteeing and collecting charges for culinary water services and all other
rules necessary for the management and control of the system. Rates for
services furnished shall be uniform with respect to each class or classes of
service established or that may hereafter be established. Rates may be
established at different levels for premises outside the corporate boundaries
of the Town. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
   B.   Security Deposits: A security deposit is required before any customer
takes up residence in the Town limits. This security deposit applies to a
person who has purchased a residence and will be living in the residence or a
non- homeowner when renting from and living in the residence of a homeowner.
Payment of the security deposit by the non- homeowner tenant is waived when the
homeowner continues to bear all financial responsibility for the payment of all
fees, service charges, delinquent fees or any other fee associated with the
Town water system usage and service. If, at any time, the tenant wishes to
assume responsibility of utility billing payment associated with the Town water
system to the home in which they are living, the security deposit will be
required along with the Town residential utility service agreement.
After a term of twenty four (24) months with no delinquent or outstanding debts
to Meadow Town, the security deposit may be credited to a homeowner's account.
This applies only to homeowners and does not apply to renters.
Upon termination of service by the customer for reasons of relocation, the
deposit will be refunded if all bills have been paid and no problems with
delinquency have occurred. This applies to both homeowners and renters. (Ord.
2019-5, 3-19-2019)
   C.   Special Rates: The Town Council may, from time to time, fix by
agreement or resolution special rates and conditions for customers using
exceptionally large amounts of water service or making use of the system under
exceptional circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as they may deem
proper. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-6: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
All connection fees and monthly user charges collected under the provisions of
this chapter shall be deposited in the Town Water System Fund and used to meet
the operation and maintenance cost of the system; debt service on obligations
appertaining to the construction associated with the acquisition or development
of the system; and such other allocations as the Town Council may by resolution
provide. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-7: INDIVIDUAL UNITS:
A water meter and agreement shall be required for each individual unit. For the
purpose of this chapter, an "individual unit" is defined as a separate
residence, building, commercial establishment or structure, whether or not
maintained in a single group, such as apartments or condominiums. Each separate
unit shall be required to pay the minimum rates herein specified. (Ord. 09-03,
10-7-2009)
8-1-8: USE WITHOUT PAYMENT, DAMAGE TO SYSTEM, POLLUTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to utilize the culinary water
system without proper payment thereof. It shall be unlawful to open any pipe,
line, connection, stopcock, valve or other fixtures attached to the system of
culinary water supply unless it is done pursuant to proper application and
authorization. It shall be unlawful to injure, deface or impair any part or
component of the water system, or to cast anything into any reservoir, storage
tank or facilities appurtenant or contributing to the culinary water system. It
shall be unlawful to pollute any water source, watershed, drainage area, or any
other area contributing to the culinary water system. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-9: DELINQUENCY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Statement: The clerk or superintendent shall mail or otherwise deliver
to the address as appears on the application or as changed by written request
of applicant, a written statement outlining the amount of water service charges
assessed for the prior month or other intervals as the town council shall
direct.
   B.   Due Date; Notice Of Intention: The statement shall specify the amount
of the bill for the water service and the place of payment and date due. If any
person fails to pay the water charges within twenty (20) days from the date
due, the clerk or superintendent shall give the consumer notice in writing of
intention to discontinue the service to the consumer unless the consumer pays
the bill in full within five (5) days from the date of notice (see appendix F
attached to the ordinance codified herein). To avert shutoff, the customer's
utility bill must be paid in full. There must be no remaining balance on said
bill to retain services.
   C.   Delinquency: A five percent (5%) penalty shall be assessed to a
customer for any portion of the water bill classified as delinquent and a
surrender of customer's water agreement might be required with extended
delinquencies. In addition to such payments and penalties, a delinquent
consumer may be required to make and file a new application and pay a new
connection fee and a new security deposit if the previous deposit has
theretofore been applied to the payment of delinquent bills. The clerk is
hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the payment of all delinquent water
charges by an action at law in the name of the town, apart from and in addition
to the remedies stated above. If, for any reason, customer chooses to forfeit
water service, customer will be required to pay a new connection fee. (Ord. 09-
03, 10-7-2009)
   D.   Penalty: If a customer is shut off due to delinquency and payment in
full is not received after ninety (90) days from the exact day of shutoff, a
service fee will be assessed, covering disconnect and reconnect fees,
administrative fees, and the cost of three (3) months' water service.
Furthermore, customer's water service will be required to be brought up to
current state code requirements and customer must pay all associated costs for
service to do so. The monthly interest rate of five percent (5%) will continue
to accrue on customer's account during this ninety (90) day time period. This
policy will be reflected in the town shutoff notice (see appendix F attached to
the ordinance codified herein) and if renter receives this notice, a copy will
also be sent to the landlord. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009; amd. Ord., 3-23-2010;
2016 Code)
8-1-10: TERMINATION OF SERVICE, CHANGE OF SERVICE, DISCONNECTS, RECONNECTS:
   A.   Disconnect Fee: If the culinary water service is discontinued for
failure to make payment, a disconnect fee shall be charged to the customer.
Before the water service to the premises shall again be provided, all
delinquent water charges, disconnection and reconnection fees or charges must
be paid to the town or arrangements made for their payment in a manner
satisfactory to the town.
   B.   Termination Of Service Fee: A nonrefundable termination of service fee
shall be assessed when the customer is moving from the residence. At the time
of final billing, otherwise known as termination billing, this fee shall be
assessed and will be required in full at the payment of the termination bill.
In addition, any customer beginning water utility service with the town will be
assessed a nonrefundable change of service fee due in full with the security
deposit payment and agreement. Disconnect and reconnect fees may be changed by
resolution at any time deemed necessary by the town council. A termination of
water service agreement shall also be required to be signed by the customer
terminating service (see appendix G attached to the ordinance codified herein).
(Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Service Fee: A service fee shall be assessed when any town
representative is called to a town utility customer's home for any meter
shutoff above and beyond that of a reconnect, disconnect or termination of
service or shutoff due to delinquency. (Ord., 4-17-2012; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-11: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Turning On Water After Being Turned Off: It shall be unlawful for any
person, after the water has been turned off from the premises for nonpayment or
otherwise, to turn on or to allow the water to be turned on without authority
from the superintendent or town clerk.
   B.   Separate Connections: It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more families
or service users to be supplied from the same service pipe, connection, water
outlet or discharge unless special permission for such combination usage has
been granted by the Town Council and the premises served are owned by the same
owner. In all such cases, a failure on the part of any one of the users to
comply with this subsection shall warrant a withholding of water through the
service connections until compliance or payment has been made. The property
owner shall be liable to the Town for all water services utilized on all such
premises. Nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude the power of the Town to
require separate pipes or connections at a subsequent time. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-
2009)
   C.   Open Discharge Of Pressurized Water: There shall be no open discharge
of water from the culinary water system which may intermingle culinary water
with irrigation water. Any such discharge from the culinary water system shall
be a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as a Class B misdemeanor
as provided in section
8-1-26 of this chapter. The owner of record of such property found to have any
open discharge shall bear all costs required to repair or rectify the
violation. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Unauthorized Users: It shall be unlawful for any water service user to
permit any person from other premises or any unauthorized person to use or
obtain water service regularly from his premises or water facilities, either
outside or inside his premises. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-12: INTERCONNECTIONS, CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No interconnection, cross connection or other joining of the culinary and
irrigation systems by any existing or future water user of the Town shall be
permitted, and any such interconnection shall be punishable as a Class B
misdemeanor as provided in section
8-1-26 of this chapter, and the owner of record of such property shall bear all
costs associated with the destruction and removal of such interconnecting
device or apparatus.
   A.   Cross Connection Prohibited: No person shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply, other than the public water supply of the
Town, may enter the potable water supply of the Town, unless such private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of
such supply shall have been approved by the Town and the State.
   B.   Responsibility: The Town shall be responsible for the protection of the
public potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to
the backflow of contaminants or pollutants. The Town shall charge fees
according to the Town's discretion and maintains the right and privilege to
adjust penalties. The penalty for cross connection shall be a Class B
misdemeanor as provided in section
8-1-26 of this chapter. The Town shall provide a system for warnings and
notification for cross connection threats and problems in compliance with State
water safety standards (see appendix H attached to the ordinance codified
herein).
   C.   Owner Responsibility: The property owner shall be responsible for the
protection of the customer's potable water system and for the elimination of or
protection from all cross connection on their premises. The owner shall, at
their expense, install, maintain and test any and all backflow preventers on
their premises in compliance with State standards. The property owner shall
have corrected any malfunction revealed by periodic testing of any backflow
preventer on their premises. The property owner shall inform the Town of any
proposed or modified cross connections and also any existing cross connections
that are not protected by an approved backflow prevention means. The property
owner shall not install a bypass around any backflow preventer unless there is
a backflow preventer of the same type in the bypass. Property owners who cannot
shut down operation for testing of the backflow prevention assembly must supply
additional assembly necessary to allow testing to take place. In the event the
property owner installs potable water using fixtures, equipment or
appurtenances upstream of a backflow preventer, such must have its own approved
backflow prevention means. The property owner is required to follow the
protection practices described in the American Water Works Association
publication AWWA M14 entitled "Recommended Practice for Backflow Prevention and
Cross Connection Control", and the United States Environmental Protection
Agency titled "Cross Connection Control Manual", unless the Town authorizes
other means of protecting the potable water system. These requirements or
authorizations will be at the discretion of the Town.
   D.   Inspections: It shall be the duty of the Town to cause inspection to be
made of all properties serviced by the Town where cross connection with the
public water system is deemed possible. Residential properties serviced by the
Town shall be inspected on an as needed basis. The town may, but is not
required to, perform the cross connection inspection of the owner's property.
If, in the opinion of the town, an inspection is not able to be performed, the
property owners must, at their own expense, have the plumbing inspected for
cross connections by a certified cross connection control inspector/surveyor.
All nonresidential properties serviced by the town shall be inspected on an as
needed basis. The town may, but is not required to, perform the cross
connection inspection of the owner's property. If, in the opinion of the town,
an inspection is not able to be performed, the property owner must, at their
own expense, have the plumbing inspected for cross connections by a certified
cross connection control inspector/surveyor who is a state licensed plumber.
The frequency of required inspections and reinspections, based on potential
health hazards involved, may be shortened by the town.
   E.   Right Of Entry: Upon presentation of credentials, representatives of
the town shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine any property served by a connection to the public potable water system
of the town. If entry is refused, such representatives shall obtain a special
inspection warrant by local officials. Upon request, the owner, lessee or
occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the piping system on such property.
   F.   Authority To Discontinue Service: The town is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this section exists and to take such other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any damage of contamination of the potable water
system. Water service shall be discontinued if the means of backflow prevention
required by the town is not installed, tested, maintained and repaired in
compliance with this section and state code, or if it is found that the means
of backflow prevention required by this section has been removed or bypassed.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice and
opportunity for hearing, according to town policy, except as proved in
subsection I of this section.
   G.   Reconnection Of Service: Water service to any property discontinued
under the provisions of this section shall not be restored until the cross
connection has been eliminated or a backflow prevention means approved by the
town has been installed in compliance with the provision of this section.
   H.   Emergency Discontinuance Of Service: If it is determined by the town
that a cross connection or an emergency endangers public health, safety or
welfare and requires immediate action, service may be immediately discontinued.
The owner, lessee or occupant shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten
(10) days of such emergency discontinuance. Such hearing shall be before the
town council and shall conform to all existing due process requirements.
   I.   Additional Protection: In the case of premises having: 1) internal
cross connections that cannot be permanently corrected or controlled; or 2)
intricate plumbing and piping arrangements or where entry to all portions of
the premises is not readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it
impracticable or impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous cross
connections exist, the public water system shall be protected against backflow
from the premises by installing an approved backflow preventer in the service
line. In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous to
health that is handled in such a manner that, in the opinion of the town, could
create an actual or potential hazard to the public water system, an approved
air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle assembly shall
protect the public water system. Examples of premises where these conditions
will exist include feedlots, sewage treatment plants, hospitals, mortuaries,
plating plants and car wash establishments. In the case of any premises where,
in the opinion of the town, an undue health threat is posed because of the
presence of toxic substances, the town may require an approved air gap or
reduced pressure principle assembly at the service connection to protect the
public water system. This requirement will be at the discretion of the town.
   J.   State Code: This section does not supersede the state code, but is
supplementary to it.
   K.   Plumbing Code: This section does not supersede the state plumbing code,
but is supplementary to it. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-13: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
All damages or injury to the lines, meters or other materials of the town on or
near the consumer's premises caused by any act or neglect of the consumer, his
guests or invitees, shall be repaired by and at the expense of the consumer.
The consumer shall pay all costs and expenses, including a reasonable attorney
fee, which may arise or accrue to the town if required to repair the damage to
the lines, meters or other equipment of the department or collect such costs
from the consumer. If testing proves to be accurate, any costs involved will be
the water user's responsibility. If the meter is faulty, the cost will be the
town's and water bill for time in question will be the minimum monthly charge.
Customer will be given forty five (45) days from the time of billing to pursue
any objections. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-14: LOCATION OF PRIVATE LINES:
Unless prior approval is obtained from the town, all lines from the main lines
to the property serviced shall be contained within the property on which
services are to be delivered. Where necessary, the obtaining and the cost of
easements shall be the responsibility of the property owner seeking water
services from the town. Outside tap connections must be assigned a specific
service address and must remain under the original ownership and service
address. If inherited or sold, it must retain the original service address and
existing number of water connections. If not attached to a residence, it will
be considered stock watering. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-15: FACILITIES IN GOOD REPAIR:
All users of water service shall keep their service pipes, connections and
other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at their own expense.
No person, except under the direction of the superintendent, shall be allowed
to dig into the street for the purpose of laying, removing or repairing any
service pipe. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-16: QUALITY OF SERVICE PIPE:
   A.   All service and other pipe used in conjunction with the water services
of the town shall be of such material, quality and specifications as the town
council may, from time to time by resolution, provide and shall be installed at
such distances belowground as may be specified. All work, alterations or
extensions affecting water pipes shall be subject to the acceptance of the
water superintendent and no connections with any water mains shall be made
without first obtaining a permit thereof from the town.
   B.   Once services have been delivered to a consumer pursuant to properly
submitted applications, billing begins. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-17: FAULTY EQUIPMENT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any water user to:
      1.   Waste water;
      2.   Allow it to be wasted by open stops, taps, valves or leaky pipes, or
to allow tanks or water troughs to leak or overflow;
      3.   Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets or stops, or through
basins, water closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus;
      4.   Use the water for purposes other than for those which he has applied
or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for controlling the
water supply.
   B.   Users of water from the culinary water system shall not permit water to
continue to run wastefully and without due efforts to conserve water. If, in
the judgment of the superintendent, a user of culinary water engages in
practices which result in the needless waste of water and continues to do so
after the notice to discontinue has been given, the superintendent, or any
officer, may refer the matter to the town council.
   C.   The town council may thereupon consider terminating the right of the
individual to use culinary water. If it elects to consider the matter of
termination, it shall give notice to the water user of the intention to
terminate his water connection at least five (5) days prior to the meeting of
the town council at which termination of water service is to be considered. The
notice shall inform him of the time and place of the meeting and of the charges
which lead to the consideration of the termination.
   D.   A water user whose right to utilize culinary water is being reviewed
shall have opportunity to appear, with or without counsel, and present his
reasons why his water service should not be discontinued.
   E.   After such hearing, the town council shall make a determination. If the
determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user's service connection,
it shall notify him of the decision, necessary corrections and time frame to
make those corrections, and a required inspection by the town council, at which
point the council will decide whether to continue or terminate water user's
connection. All disconnect and reconnect fees will apply. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-
2009)
8-1-18: SPRINKLING VEHICLES:
Permission must be obtained from the town council before any vehicles for
sprinkling shall be used. Usage shall be regulated and controlled by the water
department through the Superintendent of the Water Department. (Ord. 09-03, 10-
7-2009)
8-1-19: NONLIABILITY OF TOWN FOR DAMAGES:
The Town shall not be liable for any damage to a water service user by reason
of stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by fires,
scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains, or which occurs
as the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from any other
unavoidable cause. This section shall not be construed to extend the liability
of the Town beyond that provided in the Governmental Immunity Act. (Ord. 09-03,
10-7-2009)
8-1-20: WATER NOT SUPPLIED TO MOTORS, SIPHONS:
No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the Town water system for the
purpose of driving motors, siphons, turbines or other wheels, or any hydraulic
engines or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose,
except by special permission of the Town Council. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-21: SCARCITY OF WATER:
In times of scarcity of water, whenever it shall, in the judgment of the Mayor
and Town Council, be necessary, the Mayor shall, by proclamation, limit the use
of water to such extent as may be necessary. It shall be unlawful for any
person, his family, servants or agents to violate any proclamation made by the
Mayor in pursuance of this section. Appendix H attached to the ordinance
codified herein details the Town phone tree designated to inform customers of
situations such as this. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-22: PERMITS FOR INSTALLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, repair, alter or connect any water
line to the Town culinary water system without first having obtained a
construction permit from the Town Council or the Clerk, or from the
Superintendent. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-23: EXTENSIONS OF SYSTEM BY DEVELOPERS:
   A.   Petition: Any person or entity desiring to extend the water system of
the Town to a project or development, including a subdivision, shall submit a
petition to the Town. Said petition shall include a description of the proposed
extension, accompanied by maps showing the location of extensions. The petition
shall include the applicant's agreement to bear all costs and expenses
associated with such extension and the agreement to construct, install and
otherwise complete all improvements consistent with minimum standards
established by the Town Engineer.
   B.   Request For Reimbursement: Applicants, other than those proposing new
subdivisions, may include in their petition a request that the Town enter into
an agreement whereby the applicant may receive reimbursement for a portion of
the costs of the extension based on subsequent connections to lines or
improvements installed by applicant. If granted, all terms and conditions of
reimbursement to the applicant shall be incorporated in a separate written
contract outlining the time within which reimbursement would be applicable, the
amount of reimbursement per subsequent connection and such other terms and
conditions as deemed appropriate and necessary by the Town given the particular
facts and circumstances surrounding the application. Unless circumstances
warrant special consideration, applicants seeking to extend culinary service
lines for the development of a subdivision shall not be entitled to
reimbursement for subsequent connections to lines installed by applicant. It
shall be presumed that the applicant will establish prices for lots within the
proposed subdivision to recoup the cost of extending water lines to such
subdivision.
   C.   Installation: Once accepted and connected to the Town water system, all
lines and improvements installed by the developer shall belong to the Town and
shall be deemed a part of the Town culinary water system subject to the Town's
rights to regulate its use. No water, other than for testing purposes, shall be
turned into the new extension and improvements until all work and improvements
have been approved by the Town. The Town, at its discretion, may request
certification from a qualified engineer stating that all improvements have been
installed consistent with the minimum standards established by the Town
engineers and that the improvements otherwise comply with any and all
applicable Federal, State or local regulations. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
   D.   Warranty: Installation of any water system or improvements by any
developer or contractor is required a five (5) year warranty on all lines,
apparatus, backfill and road services, to be restored to quality equal to or
better than the original state. Before any work is commenced, inspection by a
State licensed water system inspector must be approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Ownership Of Extension: Any extensions of the system shall be deemed
the property of the Town whether the cost thereof has been borne by someone
other than the Town, with or without required permission. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-
2009)
8-1-24: EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
The Town may construct or authorize the construction of waterworks within or
without the Town limits, and for the purpose of maintaining and protecting the
same from injury and the water from pollution, its jurisdiction shall extend
over the territory occupied by such works, and over all reservoirs, streams,
canals, ditches, pipes and drains used in and necessary for the construction,
maintenance and operation of the same, and over the stream or source from which
the water is taken, within the Source Protection Zone (see appendix J attached
to the ordinance codified herein) above the point from which it is taken and
for a distance of three hundred feet (300') on each side of such stream and
over highways along such stream or watercourse within said fifteen (15) miles
and said three hundred feet (300'). All ordinances and regulations, including
this chapter, are deemed necessary to carry the power herein conferred into
effect, and is to enact among other things, an ordinance preventing pollution
or contamination of the streams or watercourses from which the inhabitants of
the Town derive their water supply, in whole or in part, for domestic and
culinary purposes, and this chapter prohibits the construction or maintenance
of any closet, privy, outhouse or urinal within the area over which the Town
has jurisdiction, and provides for permits for the construction and maintenance
of the same, applications for which permits must be made to the Town Council.
In granting such permits, the Council may annex thereto such reasonable
conditions and requirements for the protection of the public health as they
deem proper, and may, if deemed advisable, require that all closets, privies
and urinals along such streams shall be provided with effective septic tanks or
other instrumentalities deemed necessary to prevent possible contamination of
the water provided through the system. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009)
8-1-25: RIGHTS RESERVED:
   A.   The Governing Body reserves the right, without notice, to make
temporary exceptions, suspensions or modifications in any of these rules and
regulations when, in their judgment, the same are advisable and such temporary
exceptions, suspensions or modifications shall in no way be considered as
affecting the general application of such rules and regulations.
   B.   In all matters not specifically covered by these rules and regulations,
the Governing Body reserves the right to take any action which, in its
judgment, is deemed reasonable. Such action shall be binding upon the lot
holder, Town water users and all parties concerned.
   C.   The Governing Body reserves the right at any time to change, alter,
repeal, rescind or add to these rules and regulations, or any part thereof, or
to adopt any new rule or regulation with respect to the Town water system. This
chapter, including any amendments hereto, constitute the sole agreement between
the Town and the Town water users. The statement of any employee or agent,
unless confirmed in writing by an authorized representative of the Governing
Body, shall in no way bind the Town. (Ord. 09-03, 10-7-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-26: PENALTY:
Without altering or diminishing the effect of any other sanction, penalty or
consequence provided in this chapter elsewhere, the violation of, failure to
observe, or omission to comply with any provision of this chapter, shall be a
criminal offense punishable as a Class B misdemeanor as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of continued violation shall be a separately
punishable offense and this section shall be in addition to any other penalty,
sanction, consequence or remedy for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 09-03,
10-7-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL POWER AND LIGHT
SECTION:
8-2-1: Meter Deposit
8-2-2: Rates
8-2-3: Reconnection Fee
8-2-4: Wilful Or Malicious Damage
8-2-5: Net Metering
8-2-1: METER DEPOSIT:
The Town Council may require such meter deposit as it deems necessary to ensure
payment for electricity. (1976 Code § 20-2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-2: RATES:
The Town Council shall set by resolution the rates for electrical power. (1976
Code § 20-2-2)
8-2-3: RECONNECTION FEE:
Reconnection fees shall be charged when a shutoff is requested by the consumer
or on account of a delinquent bill. (Ord. 81-2, 7-2-1981; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-4: WILFUL OR MALICIOUS DAMAGE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously:
      1.   Cut, break or throw down any of the poles used in the Town electric
system.
      2.   Cut, break or remove from its insulator any wire in use in said
system.
      3.   Wilfully destroy the insulation of said system or any part thereof
by the attachment of a ground wire or other contrivance.
      4.   Intercept the transmission of electric current through wires of the
system.
      5.   Injure, molest or destroy any property or materials appertaining to
said electrical system.
      6.   Interfere with the use of said system or obstruct or postpone the
system or to procure or advise any such injury.
      7.   To, by any means or device, use or obtain electric current except
through a meter regularly installed and approved by the Town Electrician. (1976
Code § 20-2-4)
   B.   Any person performing, procuring or advising the performance of any of
said listed acts shall be deemed guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1976 Code § 20-2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-5: NET METERING:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known and cited as the MEADOW TOWN NET
METERING ORDINANCE.
   B.   General: The cooperative's Net Metering Program described herein shall
be available to the cooperative's retail tariff customers under the following
conditions: Net metering customer operates a customer-owned generating system
that supplies part or all of customer's electrical energy needs and may produce
energy in excess of customer's electrical energy needs. Customer-owned
generating system operates in parallel with cooperative's electrical system,
must have the same nominal voltage, frequency and electrical phasing output as
customer's electrical service from cooperative, must not exceed twenty five
(25) kW of capacity, must be a fuel cell or driven by renewable energy derived
from the sun and must be located on customer's premises.
   C.   Definitions:
COOPERATIVE: The legally established electric cooperative, i.e., Meadow Town
Corporation, offering retail electrical service to customers within a
certificated service territory.
CUSTOMER: A person or other legally established entity taking electrical
service from the cooperative and is member of said cooperative.
EXCESS NET METERING CUSTOMER GENERATED ENERGY: The amount of net metering
customer generated energy, as measured in kWh during a billing period that
exceeds the cooperative supplied energy during the same period.
INVERTER: A static power controller/converter device that converts direct
current power or alternating current power into alternative current power at
the voltage and frequency compatible with power supplied by the cooperative.
NET ELECTRICAL ENERGY: As measured in kWh, means the difference between:
      1.   The amount of energy supplied to the net metering customer by the
cooperative, and
      2.   The amount of energy from the customer-owned generative system.
NET METERING: The measuring of the net electrical energy difference between:
      1.   The amount of energy supplied to the net metering customer by the
cooperative, and
      2.   The amount of energy from the customer-owned generation system.
   D.   Interconnection And Equipment: Customers shall obtain a building permit
from the cooperative before any installation is initiated. Customer-owned
generation system must meet or exceed applicable local and national standards
regarding electrical and fire safety, power quality, and interconnection
requirements. These standards include, but are not limited to, those
established by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), National
Electrical Code (NEC), National Electrical Safety Code (NESC), the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and Underwriters Laboratories
(UL). All equipment necessary to comply with these standards and requirements
shall be owned by and the responsibility of the net metering customer.
Customer-owned generating system must be controlled by an inverter that has
been designed, tested, and certified to meet or exceed UL 1741, IEEE 929, ANSI
519, and IEEE 1547 standards.
Customer must provide a visible isolation switch for the customer-owned
generation system ("isolation switch") that meets applicable ANSI, IEEE, UL and
local governmental and cooperative standards. Isolation switch must be
accessible to cooperative personnel at all times, and cooperative personnel
must be allowed to padlock it in the open position at any time and for any
reason.
Isolation switch must be located on the exterior of the building, preferably
adjacent to the electrical service entrance equipment on the net metering
customer's side of the cooperative's meter. Isolation switch must be
permanently and visibly, marked as "generator disconnect" in letters at least
two inches (2") high. If the isolation switch is not adjacent to the electrical
service entrance equipment, a permanent/weather resistant map shall be
installed at that location detailing where the isolation switch is located.
Interconnection of customer-owned generation system shall be made to net
metering customer's electrical service equipment or feeder at the same nominal
output voltage and phasing as the customer's electrical service.
Additions and upgrades to cooperative facilities to accommodate the customer-
owned generation system shall not be provided at the cooperative's expense
under the Net Metering Program. If the meter, metering equipment, service
equipment including transformer(s) or service conductors owned by cooperative,
or the electrical distribution system of cooperative must be upgraded to
accommodate the customer-owned generation system, the net metering customer
shall be responsible for any and all costs incurred by cooperative.
Service under this net metering tariff will require the installation of
appropriate bi-directional metering equipment prior to initiation of the net
metering service.
If the net metering project requires special studies by the cooperative, net
metering customer shall be responsible for study costs.
   E.   Billing And Rates: Customer must be serviced under an existing
applicable qualifying tariff for power and energy purchased from cooperative.
Cooperative's customer charge and/or minimum monthly charges under the retail
tariff will be billed to net metering customer in all situations as a minimum
electric bill. The cooperative's customer charges under the net metering tariff
shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) per month, which is in addition to any charges
under the existing retail tariff.
If the net metering does not result in excess customer- generated energy during
the billing period, the cooperative shall bill the net metering customer for
the energy under normal billing practices of the applicable retail tariff.
If the net metering results in excess net metering customer generated energy
during the billing period, one of the following will occur:
      1.   The cooperative shall credit the net metering customer's monthly
power bill for the amount of excess net metering customer generated energy
times the excess net metering customer generated energy rate, or
      2.   The cooperative shall credit the customer for the amount of excess
customer generated energy to offset future energy purchases within the calendar
year. However, unused energy credits will expire if not used within the
calendar year.
Cooperative shall pay net metering customer for excess net metering customer
generated energy at the rate of $0.0222 per kWh.
   F.   Additional Information: Net Metering Program shall be available to
cooperative's customers until the combination of all net metering customer-
owned generation systems exceed ten (10) kW (0.1 percent of system demand in
2001) or until cooperative limits interconnections to a prescribed amount of kW
in excess of ten (10) kW.
Cooperative requires that the net metering customer enter into an
interconnection agreement before interconnecting customer-owned generation
system.
Cooperative shall not be held liable for loss injury or death of a third party
for allowing and resulting from the interconnection of a customer-owned
generative system participating in the Net Metering Program. Net metering
customer shall hold harmless the cooperative in any of the above mentioned
events.
Cooperative may witness tests, require operational checks or demonstration of
equipment, or inspect interconnectional any and all times to ensure safety of
electrical workers and/or the public and to preserve the safety and integrity
of the electrical power grid.
Net metering customer hereunder is subject to cooperative's electric service
regulations as amended from time to time. Cooperative's electric service
regulations are filed with and approved by the Public Service Commission. (Ord.
8-2-5, 4-6-2017)
CHAPTER 3
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
SECTION:
8-3-1: Short Title And Purpose
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Administration
8-3-4: Protection Zones Established
8-3-5: Permitted Uses
8-3-6: Prohibited Uses
8-3-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the DRINKING WATER SOURCE
PROTECTION ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the provision of a
safe and sanitary drinking water supply for the town water system by the
establishment of drinking water source protection zones surrounding the
wellhead for the well which is the supply source for the town water system and
by the designation and regulation of property uses and conditions which may be
maintained within such zones. (Ord., 5-15-2003)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
DESIGN STANDARDS: A control which is implemented by a potential contamination
source to prevent discharges to the groundwater. Spill protection is an example
of a design standard.
LAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES: Zoning and nonzoning controls which include, but
are not limited to, the following: zoning and subdivision ordinances, site plan
reviews, design and operating standards, source prohibitions, purchase of
property and development rights, public education programs, groundwater
monitoring, household hazardous waste collection programs, water conservation
programs, memoranda of understanding, written contracts and agreements, and so
forth.
POLLUTION SOURCE: Point source discharges of contaminants to groundwater or
potential discharges of the liquid forms of "extremely hazardous substances"
which are stored in containers in excess of "applicable threshold planning
quantities" as specified in SARA title III. Examples of possible pollution
sources include, but are not limited to, the following: storage facilities that
store the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks,
drainfields, class V underground injection wells, landfills, open dumps,
landfilling of sludge and septage, manure piles, salt piles, pit privies, and
animal feeding operations with more than ten (10) animal units. The following
clarify the definition of pollution source:
   A.   Animal Feeding Operation: A lot or facility where the following
conditions are met: animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period, and crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered
to be a single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a
common area, or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
   B.   Animal Unit: A unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation
calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of slaughter and feeder
cattle multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by
1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over fifty five (55) pounds multiplied
by 0.4, plus the number of sheep multiplied by 0.1, plus the number of horses
multiplied by 2.0.
   C.   Extremely Hazardous Substances: Those substances which are identified
in the section 302(EHS) column of the "title III list of lists - consolidated
list of chemicals subject to reporting under SARA title III" (EPA 560/4-91-
011).
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: Any facility or site which employs an activity
or procedure which may potentially contaminate groundwater. A pollution source
is also a potential contamination source.
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over hazardous
waste, as defined herein.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
SEPTIC TANK/DRAINFIELD SYSTEMS: A system which is comprised of a septic tank
and a drainfield which accepts domestic wastewater from buildings or facilities
for subsurface treatment and disposal. By their design, septic tank/drainfield
system discharges cannot be controlled with design standards.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments. (Ord., 5-15-2003)
8-3-3: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any source protection zone
established under this chapter, including, without limitation, those applicable
to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same
as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the county and the town, as
the same is presently enacted or may from time to time be amended. (Ord., 5-15-
2003; amd. 2016 Code)
8-3-4: PROTECTION ZONES ESTABLISHED:
There are hereby established use districts to be known as zones one, two, three
and four of the drinking water source protection area, identified and described
as follows:
   A.   Zone one is the area within a one hundred foot (100') radius from the
wellhead.
   B.   Zone two is the area within a two hundred fifty (250) day groundwater
time of travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifers which supplies
water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is
closer.
   C.   Zone three is the area within a three (3) year groundwater time of
travel to the wellhead, or margin of the collection area, the boundary of the
aquifers which supplies water to the groundwater source or the groundwater
divide, whichever is closer.
   D.   Zone four is the area within a fifteen (15) year groundwater time of
travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifers which supplies water to
the groundwater source or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer. (Ord.,
5-15-2003)
8-3-5: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted within drinking water source protection
zones:
   A.   Any use permitted within existing agricultural, single- family
residential, multi-family residential and commercial districts so long as uses
conform to the rules and regulations of the regulatory agencies.
   B.   Any other open land use where any building located on the property is
incidental and accessory to the primary open land use. (Ord., 5-15-2003)
8-3-6: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within
drinking water source protection zones, whether or not such use or condition
may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under section
8-3-5 of this chapter:
   A.   Zone one: The location of any "pollution source", as defined in section
8-3-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Zone two: The location of a pollution source unless its contaminated
discharges can be controlled with design standards.
   C.   Zones three and four: The location of a potential contamination source
unless it can be controlled through land management strategies. (Ord., 5-15-
2003)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Permit Required
9-1-2: Procedure For Obtaining Building Permit
9-1-1: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, erect, enlarge, alter,
repair, improve, move or demolish any building or structure within the
corporate limits of the town without first obtaining a separate building permit
for each building or structure from the town. (1976 Code §
3-1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
9-1-2: PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   Application Required: Any person desiring to erect any structure within
the town must file a written application to the town, which can be obtained at
the town office.
   B.   Review: The application shall be reviewed by the mayor and presented to
the town council for approval. Once approved, the plans shall be submitted to
and reviewed by an engineer approved by the town for compliance with building
codes and regulations. Upon completion and approval of that review, the
building permit shall be issued. (2016 Code)
TITLE 10
LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Legislative Intent
10-1-2: Scope And Application
10-1-3: Zoning Map
10-1-4: Regulation Terms Defined
10-1-5: Conflicting Provisions
10-1-6: Interpretations
10-1-7: Creation Of Vested Rights
10-1-8: Transitional Provisions
10-1-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
This title is intended to:
   A.   Support the goals of the town general plan;
   B.   Protect and promote public safety, health and general welfare by
providing adequate lighting, clean air, water and sewage control, and fire
protection;
   C.   Protect private property rights;
   D.   Promote coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land
and site planning;
   E.   Encourage innovation in residential development that meets the growing
demand for housing;
   F.   Preserve the character and stability of neighborhoods;
   G.   Prevent substandard development, waste, inefficient use of resources,
and danger and congestion in travel and transportation;
   H.   Ensure equal opportunity in housing to the handicapped;
   I.   Foster convenient, compatible and efficient relationships among land
uses;
   J.    Promote a safe, effective traffic circulation system;
   K.   Regulate and control the division of land;
   L.   Protect life and progeny in areas subject to floods and other natural
disasters;
   M.   Promote prosperity, peace and good order, comfort and aesthetics of the
town and its present and future inhabitants and businesses;
   N.   Protect the tax base and property values;
   O.   Secure economy in governmental expenditures. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-1-2: SCOPE AND APPLICATION:
The provisions of this title apply to all land and uses of land within the
town, and may be amended from time to time. A lot annexed and zoned that does
not meet the minimum lot standards of this title, may be used notwithstanding
such requirements, if such lot was validly created. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-1-3: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of the zoning districts are set forth on a map entitled "Meadow
Zoning" and adopted as part of this section. This map shall be kept by the town
clerk and maintained as provided in subsection B of this section.
   A.   Unless otherwise expressly defined on the zoning map, zoning district
boundary lines are lot lines, section lines, town limit lines and streets
depicted on the zoning map. If uncertainty remains as to the boundary of a
zoning district after application of the provisions of this subsection, the
town council will interpret the district boundary.
   B.   All amendments to the zoning map shall be made by ordinance. The town
shall, within a reasonable time after adoption of any such amendment, place the
amendment on the zoning map. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-1-4: REGULATION TERMS DEFINED:
A general description of the land use regulations follows. This description is
intended to provide the reader with some guidance using the terms of this title
and is not a substitute for the standards, criteria and procedures contained in
this title.
   A.   Zoning Map: Prior to considering the development or redevelopment of
land, an applicant should refer to the official zoning map to determine which
zone corresponds to the property. The official zoning map is available from the
town clerk and/or the planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Zoning District Chapter: Once the applicant has identified the zoning
district, the applicant should refer to the applicable article of chapter 5 of
this title, which corresponds to the applicable zoning districts. Definitions
are also found in chapter 2 of this title. The applicant should next refer to
the site development and design requirements within the zoning district article
to determine if the property is adequate in size to accommodate the proposed
project. The site development and design standards will determine the building
setback from the property lines, minimum lot area (if any), minimum open space,
build to lines, maximum height, density, parking requirements for buildings and
uses on the property, etc.
   C.   Overlay Districts: A portion of the rural residential zone contains a
drinking water source protection area. An overlay district will be created to
encompass this area. For land use matters located within this district, both
the regulations for the base zone and the overlay district will apply. See map
in general plan, appendix 2.
   D.   Use Standards: The applicant should then refer to the use table for the
district. The applicant should first determine if the desired use is allowed in
the district. If the use is allowed as a conditional use, the applicant must
apply for and obtain a conditional use permit. Finally, if the use is an
existing legal use that is no longer allowed in the zoning district, and there
is a proposal to change or modify a structure associated with the use, the
applicant must apply for and obtain a variance from the appeal authority.
   E.   Variances; Rezones: If the applicant cannot meet the standards
described in subsection D of this section, the applicant should determine
whether there are alternative development options or any exceptions to the
general rules that may accommodate the project. If the project does not meet
standards and other development alternatives are not possible, then there are
two (2) methods available to attempt to vary the standards: the variance
process and a petition for rezone.
      1.   The variance process is generally used for existing development, or
development of an existing, validly created lot. The appeal authority shall
issue a variance upon the applicant's demonstration that the application meets
each variance standard detailed in section
10-4-2 of this title.
      2.   A petition for rezone is a request to change the development
standards for the property in question. Rezones are discretionary legislative
acts.
   F.   Subdivision Of Land: If the applicant would like to subdivide a piece
of property, merge a number of different parcels into one parcel or
resubdivide, the applicant may need to go through the subdivision process of
chapter 9 of this title. The purpose of the subdivision process is to ensure
that proposed building sites are appropriate for development; to obtain an
accurate and permanent record of the separate interests of land that are
created by subdivision of land; to apportion the costs of public services and
facilities serving the subdivision; to provide assurances to future buyers of
land that the subdivider owns the land to be sold; to provide legal and
physical access to each lot; and to provide for maintenance of improvements,
utilities and amenities. There are a number of divisions of land to which the
subdivision regulations do not apply. The applicant should review these
exceptions to determine if the project will be required to complete the
subdivision process. There is also an abbreviated process for projects that
only require relocation of a lot line between two (2) lots within an existing
subdivision.
   G.   Meanings And Intent: All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in this title shall be construed according to section
10-1-1 of this chapter.
   H.   Headings, Illustrations And Text: In case of any difference of meaning
or implication between the text of this title and any heading, drawing, table,
figure or illustration, the text shall control.
   I.   Lists And Examples: Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of
items or examples that use terms such as "including", "such as" or similar
language are intended to provide examples, not to be exhaustive lists of all
possibilities.
   J.   Computation Of Time: References to days are calendar days. Exclude the
first day and include the last day. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or
holiday observed by the town, that day shall be excluded.
   K.   References To Other Regulations, Publications And Documents: Whenever
reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation or document,
it shall be construed as a reference to the most recent edition of such
regulation (as amended), resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation or
document, unless otherwise specifically stated.
   L.   Technical And Nontechnical Terms: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law
shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   M.   Public Officials And Agencies: All public officials, bodies and
agencies to which references are made are those of Meadow Town, unless
otherwise indicated.
   N.   Mandatory And Discretionary Terms: The words "shall", "will" and "must"
are always mandatory. The words "may" and "should" are advisory and
discretionary terms.
   O.   Conjunctions: Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.   "And" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events apply; and
      2.   "Or" indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events may apply.
   P.   Tenses And Plurals: Words used in one tense (past, present or future)
include all other tenses, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular. (Ord.
04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-1-5: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
This title is written to harmonize with federal, state and town laws. To the
extent a provision of this title conflicts with a federal, state or local law
or private contract, the following rules apply:
   A.   Conflict With State Or Federal Regulations: If the provisions of this
title are inconsistent with those of the state or federal government, the more
restrictive provision will control, to the extent permitted by law.
   B.   Conflict With Other Town Regulations: If the provisions of this title
are inconsistent with one another or if they conflict with provisions found in
other adopted ordinances, resolutions or regulations of the town, the more
restrictive provision will control.
   C.   Conflict With Private Agreements: It is not the intent of this title to
interfere with, abrogate or annul any easement, covenant, deed restriction or
other agreement between private parties. If the provisions of this title impose
a greater restriction than imposed by a private agreement, the provisions of
this title will control. If the provisions of a private agreement impose a
greater restriction than this title, the provisions of the private agreement
will control. The town shall not be responsible for monitoring or enforcing
private agreements. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-1-6: INTERPRETATIONS:
The town council shall have the power to interpret the provisions of this
title. The interpretations shall be consistent with the rules of construction
in section
10-1-4 of this chapter, with the rules of statutory construction, with the
rules of conflicting provisions in section
10-1-5 of this chapter, and shall be consistent over time until changed, in
writing, by the town council. Such interpretations shall be entitled the weight
accorded to administrative interpretations by the courts. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-
2017)
10-1-7: CREATION OF VESTED RIGHTS:
The town may alter certain private property rights by amending this title from
time to time.
   A.   How Rights Vest: Certain private property rights shall become fixed at
law, and may not be altered for a period of time, upon an applicant's:
      1.   Submission of a complete application to develop property that is
consistent with this title; and
      2.   Payment of all applicable permit fees.
   B.   What Rights Vest: The applicant's rights vest under this title in those
rights for which the applicant has applied. For example, if the applicant has
applied for a subdivision, and has "vested rights" pursuant to subsection A of
this section, the applicant's rights vest under the subdivision ordinance, and
the applicant is entitled to the benefit of the subdivision ordinance in effect
at the time of vesting. An applicant's vested rights under the subdivision
ordinance, however, do not vest the applicant under an adopted building, fire
or plumbing code, because the applicant has not submitted a complete
application for the applicable permit, nor paid applicable fees. Applications
shall not vest if:
      1.   Revisions to this title are pending at the time of application which
would prohibit or further condition the approval sought; or
      2.   There exists a compelling and countervailing health, safety or
welfare reason.
   C.   Preservation Of Vested Rights; Compliance With Conditions Of Approval:
An applicant with vested rights must comply with and maintain all conditions of
final approval to preserve the vested rights. An applicant's failure to meet or
maintain conditions of approval constitutes the applicant's knowing and wilful
waiver of the applicant's vested rights.
   D.   Applicability Of Ordinances That Are General In Nature: The
establishment of a vested right shall not preclude the application of town
ordinances or regulations that are general in nature, applicable to all
property, subject to land use regulation, and necessary to preserve the health,
safety or welfare of the community. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-1-8: TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Violations Continue: Any violation of the previous zoning ordinance
will continue to be a violation under this title and will be subject to
penalties and enforcement under chapter 3 of this title, unless the use,
development, construction or other activity complies with the provisions of
this title.
   B.   Legal Nonconformities: Any legal nonconformity under the previous
zoning ordinance or created by the adoption of this title will be a legal
nonconformity under this title. If a legal nonconforming use or structure under
the previous zoning ordinance becomes conforming because of the adoption of
this title, then the nonconformity expires. A legal nonconforming use will
become an illegal nonconforming use if the use lapses for six (6) consecutive
months.
   C.   Approved Projects And Existing Lots:
      1.   The provisions of this title shall affect approved projects and
existing lots as follows: Use permits, variances, architectural or design
approvals, subdivided lots, master plan overlays, subdivision maps and planned
unit developments, which are valid on October 21, 2014, shall remain valid
until their expiration date. Projects with valid approvals or permits may be
constructed as approved; provided, that the permit or project approval is valid
and has not lapsed. Any change in the use or occupation of such land shall be
made in accordance with the amended provisions of this title.
      2.   No provision of this title shall require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any structure for which a building permit has
been issued prior to October 21, 2014.
   D.   Vested Rights; Applications In Progress; Reapplication: An applicant
with rights vested before October 21, 2014, and pending approval on October 21,
2014, may opt for review wholly under the terms of the previous zoning
ordinance or under this title. Any reapplication for a permit that has expired
must comply with the standards in effect at the time of reapplication. Projects
for which no application has been submitted and accepted as complete prior to
October 21, 2014, shall be subject to all requirements and standards of this
title. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain numbers, abbreviations, terms and words
shall be used, interpreted and defined as set forth herein. Words not defined
herein shall have a meaning consistent with Webster's new collegiate
dictionary, latest edition. Unless the context clearly indicates to the
contrary, words used in the present tense include the future tense; words used
in the plural number include the singular; the word "herein" means "in these
regulations", the word "regulations" means "these regulations", "used" or
"occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the
words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied".
ACCESSORY BUILDING, LARGE: An accessory building larger than six hundred (600)
square feet that is located on the same lot as a residence.
ACCESSORY BUILDING, OCCUPIED: A building on the same lot as the principal
building and that is:
   A.   Clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection with such
principal building;
   B.   Operated and maintained for the benefit of the principal use; and
   C.   A dwelling unit or home office.
ACCESSORY BUILDING, UNOCCUPIED: A building on the same lot as the principal
building and that is:
   A.   Clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection with such
principal building;
   B.   Operated and maintained for the benefit of the principal use; and
   C.   Not a dwelling unit.
ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS: Accessory dwelling incidental to a church or
airport.
ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING: A subordinate use or building customarily incidental
to and located upon the same lot occupied by the main use or building.
ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES: Any or all of the following or any portions of the
following: adult book store, adult video store, adult novelty store, adult
motion picture theater, adult theater and tattoo parlors.
AFFECTED ENTITY: A county, municipality, independent special district under
Utah Code Annotated title 17D, independent special districts, local district
under Utah Code Annotated title 17B, local districts, school district,
interlocal cooperation entity established under Utah Code Annotated title 11,
chapter 13, specified public utility, or the Utah department of transportation,
if:
   A.   The entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or
significant modification because of an intended use of land;
   B.   The entity has filed with the municipality a copy of the entity's
general or long range plan; or
   C.   The entity's boundaries or facilities are within one mile of land which
is the subject of a general plan amendment or land use ordinance change.
AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY OR BUSINESS: An industry or business involving
agricultural products in manufacturing, packaging, treatment, sales or storage,
including, but not limited to, food packaging or processing plants, and similar
uses as determined by the planning and zoning commission with a conditional use
permit. This definition does not include hog farms, commercial poultry
businesses or rendering facilities.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of soil, raising of crops, horticulture, gardening and
other similar uses.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare less than twenty six feet (26') wide.
ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR VETERINARY OFFICES: An establishment where animals are
medically treated, lodged or trained by a licensed veterinarian.
ANIMAL WASTE: The excrement and discharge from an animal, or animal carcasses,
tissues or any other substance or material capable of transmitting disease or
disease carrying agents.
ANTENNA: A transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunications that
radiates or captures radio, television or similar communication signals.
ANTENNA, FREESTANDING: An antenna mounted on the roof of or within a stand
alone support structure, including, but not limited to, a wooden pole, steel
pole, lattice tower, utility pole, lift tower, light standard, flag pole or
other vertical support.
ANTENNA, ROOF MOUNTED: An antenna or series of individual antennas mounted on
the roof of a building.
ANTENNA, TEMPORARY: An antenna used for a time period of less than thirty (30)
days.
ANTENNA, WALL MOUNTED: An antenna or series of individual antennas mounted
fully against the exterior face of a building including on the face of a
chimney. A wall or face of a building is defined as the entire area of all
exposed vertical surfaces of a building that are aboveground and facing
approximately the same direction.
ANTENNA, WHIP: An antenna that is cylindrical in shape. Whip antennas can be
directional or omnidirectional and vary in size depending upon the frequency
and gain for which they are designed.
APARTMENT HOTEL: Any building that contains dwelling units and also satisfies
the definition of a "hotel", as defined in this section.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A building that contains four (4) or more dwelling units
primarily for rent or lease, or a building that contains an apartment or
apartments and also contains other approved uses such as office or retail
space.
APPEAL AUTHORITY: A person, board, commission, agency or other body designated
by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use application or a
variance.
APPLICANT: The owner of the property that is the subject of the application, or
the owner's agent.
APPLICATION: A written request for development approval, including, but not
limited to, an alteration or revision to an approved master planned
development, conditional use permit, zoning or rezoning, subdivision or
annexation. The term "application" shall not include any building permits
associated with construction within an approved subdivision or on an existing
platted lot unless otherwise specified.
ASSEMBLY FACILITY: A facility where pads are put together to develop a final
product. Generally referring to automobile, computer and electronic assembly.
ASSISTED LIVING CENTER: Residences that provide for semi- independent living.
Such facilities may be: a) equipped with studio or one bedroom apartments with
limited kitchen facilities, generally designed for single occupancy; b) contain
central dining facilities where prepared meals are served to the residents; c)
employ full time nursing or medical assistance and supervision; and d) may
provide other additional services to residents.
ATHLETIC CLUB: An establishment providing facilities for physical development,
exercise, sports or recreation. Facilities may include exercise equipment,
indoor and/or outdoor racquetball or tennis courts, jogging track, swimming
pools, ice skating rink, indoor bathing, restaurant or snack bar, and sales of
athletic equipment. Facilities may be open to the public for a fee, or
available only to persons holding membership.
AUTO, TRUCK, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT SALES AND RENTAL: Sales of both
new and used motor vehicles and equipment stored and displayed both indoors and
on outside lots, but not to include nonserviceable or junk vehicles or
equipment.
AUTO WRECKING, SALVAGE YARD: The commercial use of any lot, portion of lot or
tract of land for the storage and keeping of salvage, including scrap metals or
other scrap material, inoperable vehicles or for the dismantling or demolition
of obsolete automobiles or equipment, machinery or parts thereof. This
definition shall not be deemed to include such uses which are clearly accessory
and incidental to any agricultural use permitted in the zone district.
AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment primarily engaged in the
repair or maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers and similar large mechanical
equipment. Establishments involving auto body repair and painting services will
require a conditional use permit. Not included are automotive salvage yards.
AUTOMOTIVE SELF-SERVICE STATION: An establishment for the retail sale of
automobile fuels and lubricants, at which the customer provides the service to
his own vehicle, and at which no vehicle repair or maintenance service is
offered. Such an establishment may offer for sale at retail other convenience
items as a clearly secondary activity. Stations located at interstate exchange
catering to semitrucks, which also include accommodations for truckers, also
known as truck stops, require a conditional use permit.
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION: An establishment whose primary purpose is the
retail sale of gasoline or other motor vehicle and related fuel, oil or
lubricant. Secondary activities may include minor automotive repair,
maintenance or automatic car wash.
AVIATION AIRPORT SERVICES: Area containing an aviation landing strip, runway,
hanger or other related services needed for aircraft.
BALCONY: A platform that projects from the wall of a building and is enclosed
by a railing, parapet or balustrade.
BANKING OR FINANCIAL SERVICE: A bank, credit union, savings and loan
association, or other establishment with a primary purpose of receiving,
lending, exchanging or safeguarding money, or performing financial advisory
service. This definition shall include outside drive-up facilities for service
to customers in automobiles.
BAR, TAVERN, LOUNGE AND CLUB: An establishment intended primarily for the on
premises sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages, open either to the public
or operated as a nonprofit private club for members only.
BASEMENT: A story whose floor is more than twelve inches (12") below the
average level of the adjoining ground, but where no more than half of its floor
to ceiling height is below the average contact level of the adjoining ground. A
basement shall be counted as a story for purposes of height measurement and as
a half-story for purposes of side yard determination.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A building where, for compensation, meals and lodging are
provided for at least five (5) but not more than fifteen (15) persons.
BOND, PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: A one year guarantee to the town that all public
improvements have been installed to town specifications and will operate
properly.
BUILDING: Any structure, whether temporary or permanent, having a roof, and
used or built for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, possessions or
property of any kind.
BUILDING AREA: The portion of a lot that is within the envelope formed by the
required yards or setbacks, within which a structure can be located.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average finished grade surface
at the building wall to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to
the deck line of a mansard roof, or the mean height level between eaves and
ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
BUILDING INSPECTOR OR OFFICIAL: Meadow Town official or contracted official who
is designated to inspect buildings under construction and upon completion.
BUILDING, MAIN: A building within which the principal land use of the lot is
conducted.
BUSINESS: Any activity carried on for the purpose of gain or economic profit.
The acts of employees rendering service to employers are not included in the
term business unless otherwise specifically prescribed. "Business" includes,
but is not limited to, the sale or rental of tangible personal or real
property, the manufacturing of goods or property and the rendering of personal
services for others for consideration by persons engaged in any profession,
trade, craft, occupation, nonprofit organization or other calling.
BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL, LESS INTENSIVE: A business that does not include
automotive, heavy equipment or twenty four (24) hour uses. May be with or
without a drive-up window.
CANOPY: A roof or awning constructed of fabric or other material and extending
outward from a building to provide a protective shield for doors, windows or
other openings with supports extended to the ground directly under the canopy
or cantilevered from the building.
CARPORT: A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
purposes of this title, a carport shall be subject to all regulations
prescribed for a private garage.
CEMETERY, COLUMBARIUM, CREATOR, MAUSOLEUM: Land or buildings used for the
cremation, burial or interment of the human dead, but not including facilities
for embalming.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: The mayor of Meadow Town.
CHILD PLACING: Receiving, accepting or providing custody or care for any child
under eighteen (18) years of age, temporarily or permanently, for the purpose
of:
   A.   Finding a person to adopt the child;
   B.   Placing the child temporarily or permanently in a home for adoption; or
   C.   Foster home placement.
CHILDCARE CENTER: The provision of childcare for business for eight (8) or
fewer children, including the provider's children who are under the age of
eighteen (18), within a dwelling unit.
CHILDCARE FACILITY: The provision of childcare for business for nine (9) or
more children, including the provider's children who are under the age of
eighteen (18).
CHURCH: A building set apart primarily for the purpose of worship in which
religious services are held and with which clergy is associated, the main body
of which is kept for that use and not put to any other use inconsistent with
its primary use, and which is tax exempt under the laws of the state of Utah.
CINEMA, INDOOR: An enclosed building used primarily for the presentation of
motion pictures.
CINEMA, OUTDOOR: An establishment at which motion pictures are projected onto
an outdoor screen for viewing by patrons seated in parked motor vehicles.
CIVIC CLUB, FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION: A building or use, other than a church or
school, operated by a nonprofit association or organization for a social,
fraternal, political, civic or philanthropic purpose, which may include a
meeting hall and cooking and dining facilities for large groups, but shall not
provide overnight lodging.
CLUB, PRIVATE: Any nonprofit corporation or organization, operating as a social
club, recreational, fraternal, athletic or kindred association organized
primarily for the benefit of its stockholders or members and serving alcoholic
beverages and/or food.
COAL YARD: The storage of coal in quantities in excess of ten (10) tons and/or
the retail or wholesale sale of coal.
COLLOCATION: The location of a telecommunication facility on an existing
structure, tower or building in a manner that precludes the need for that
telecommunications facility to be located on a freestanding structure of its
own.
COMPLETE APPLICATION: A submission, which includes all information requested on
the appropriate form, and full payment of all applicable fees.
CONDITIONAL USE: A land use that, because of its unique characteristics or
potential impact on the municipality, surrounding neighbors or adjacent land
uses, may not be compatible in some areas of a zone district, or may be
compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate
the detrimental impacts.
CONGREGATE LIVING FACILITY: A residence in which three (3) or more persons
unrelated to the owner or provider reside, including, but not limited to, youth
homes, residential facilities for the disabled and residential facilities for
the elderly.
CONSERVATION EASEMENT: An easement designed to restore, enhance, protect and
sustain the quality and quantity of ecosystems and natural resources.
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING: Final action by the town to physically take or exact
private real property that requires compensation to the owner because of the
mandates of the fifth or fourteenth amendments to the constitution of the
United States, or article I, section 22, of the Utah constitution.
CONVENIENCE GOODS SALES AND SERVICES: Stores or shops intended for retail sales
of convenience goods or performance of convenience services. Goods and services
regarded as convenience are those generally needed for daily home consumption
and for which locations near residential neighborhoods are considered
desirable. This category includes grocery store, drug store, variety store,
personal service, hardware store, dry cleaning pick up, and uses considered
similar and compatible.
COUNCIL: Members of the town council of Meadow Town.
COUNTY: The unincorporated area of Millard County.
COURT: An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings and which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by
such building or buildings.
COVERAGE: The percent of the total site area covered by structures or
impervious paving other than those accepted in this title.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having an open end and being terminated at the other
end by a vehicle turnaround.
CULINARY WATER AUTHORITY: The department, agency or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water
system and sources for the subject property.
CULTURAL, CIVIC SERVICES: A building primarily used for the public, nonprofit
display of art, historic or cultural artifacts, or other inanimate exhibits or
a building primarily used as a lending library or reading room.
DAIRY: A commercial establishment housing animals for the processing and/or
retail sale of dairy products.
DEVELOPMENT: The act, process or result of erecting, placing, constructing,
converting, altering, relocating or demolishing any structure. This definition
includes construction activity.
DISABILITY: A. A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of a person's major life activities, including a person having a record of
such an impairment or being regarded as having such an impairment.
   B.   "Disability" does not include current illegal use of, or addiction to,
any federally controlled substance, as defined in section 102 of the controlled
substances act, 21 USC 802.
DISABLED CARE: A long term care residential facility for disabled persons or
persons suffering from a physical or mental impairment that substantially
limits one or more of a person's major life activities, including a person
having a record of such an impairment or being regarded as having such an
impairment.
DISTRICT: A portion of the area of Meadow Town, Utah, shown on a zoning map and
given a zone classification as set forth in this title.
DRIVE TEST ANTENNA: A temporary antenna, which is used for field testing of
telecommunications signals and possible locations, but does not provide
telecommunications to customers.
DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment employing volatile or explosive
substances for the cleaning or dyeing of fabrics. Excluded from this definition
are traditional laundries employing water and soaps in the cleaning of fabrics
and patron operated dry cleaning machines associated with laundromats.
DWELLING: Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed for use for
residential purposes, except hotels, boarding houses, lodging houses and
tourist cabins.
DWELLING, FOUR-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by four
(4) families, the structure having only four (4) dwelling units.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
more than four (4) families.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by one
family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by three
(3) families, the structure having only three (3) dwelling units.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two (2)
families, the structure having only two (2) dwelling units.
EASEMENT: A negotiated interest in the land of another which allows the
easement holder specified uses or rights without actual ownership of the land.
ELDERLY CARE: A long term care residential facility for the elderly. The term
does not include a healthcare facility.
ELDERLY PERSON: A person who is sixty (60) years old or older, and who desires
or needs to live with other elderly persons in a group setting, who may or may
not be capable of living independently.
EQUIPMENT SHELTER: A structure used to house equipment for telecommunications
facilities.
ESCROW: A deposit of cash with the town or an approved, alternate security in
lieu of cash held to ensure a guarantee.
FARM ANIMALS/LIVESTOCK: Animals other than household pets that may, where
permitted, be kept and maintained on private property.
FENCE: A physical barrier to delineate, contain or designate an area designed
for a specific use, such as an enclosure for a dwelling unit, an area of
storage, etc.
FENCE, ELECTRIC: A fence wired with low voltage (12 volt maximum) electricity.
FENCE, RAZOR: A fence with razor coil, cable or tooth wire along certain
portions.
FENCE, WILDLIFE: Open fencing allowed at a height six feet (6') or higher when
a need is shown to protect animals from entering or leaving an area.
FINAL ACTION: The latter of the final vote or the approved, written decision on
a matter.
FINAL PLAT: A recordable subdivision or condominium map.
FIREWORKS SALES/STANDS: The temporary display and sale of legally allowed
fireworks.
FLAG LOT: The remaining lot created from the subdivision of one lot, with
proper street frontage, into two (2) lots which consist of:
   A.   A frontage lot, with proper street frontage; and
   B.   A flag lot, with street access, but without street frontage. The flag
lot consists of an access portion and a banner portion.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The area of a building, including all enclosed areas
designed for human occupation. Gross floor area does not include unenclosed
porches, balconies, patios and decks, vent shafts, courtyards or garages, up to
a maximum floor area of six hundred (600) square feet.
FLOOR AREA, NET LEASABLE: Gross floor area, excluding common hallways,
mechanical and storage areas, and restrooms.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The maximum allowed gross floor area divided by the
area of the lot or parcel.
FRONTAGE: The length of the property line of the lot fronting on one side of a
street.
GARAGE, COMMERCIAL: A building other than a private garage used for the
temporary parking of automobiles with or without a fee.
GARAGE, PRIVATE (INCLUDING CARPORT): A detached accessory building or portion
of a main building for the parking or temporary storage of automobiles of the
occupants of the premises.
GATED COMMUNITY: A subdivision or residential area where primary access is
regulated through a gated entry point.
GENERAL MERCHANDISE SALES AND RELATED SERVICES: Stores, department stores or
shops intended for sale of goods or merchandise, but not including convenience
goods, liquor, motor vehicles, campers, trailers or lumber.
GENERAL PLAN: A document that a municipality adopts that sets forth general
guidelines for proposed future development of the land within the municipality,
as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-401 et seq.
GOVERNING BODY: The town council of Meadow Town.
GRADE: A. For buildings adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevations of the sidewalks at the centers of all walls adjoining streets.
   B.   For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation of the sidewalk
at the center of that wall adjoining the street.
   C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the streets, the average level
of the ground (finished surface) adjacent to the exterior walls of the
buildings.
All walls approximately parallel to and not more than five feet (5') from a
street line are to be considered as adjoining a street.
GROUP HOME: A profit or nonprofit boarding home for the sheltered care of
persons with special needs, which, in additional to providing food and shelter,
may also provide some combination of personal care, social or counseling
services, and transportation. "Group home" includes congregate facilities for
all persons.
HANDICAPPED PERSON: A person who:
   A.   Has a severe, chronic disability that is attributable to mental or
physical impairments, that is likely to continue indefinitely, and that results
in a substantial functional limitation in three (3) or more of the following
areas of major life activity:
      1.   Capacity for independent living;
      2.   Economic self-sufficiency;
      3.   Learning;
      4.   Mobility;
      5.   Receptive and expressive language;
      6.   Self-care;
      7.   Self-direction; and
   B.   Requires special interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment or other
services that are individually planned and coordinated to allow the person to
function in, and contribute to, a residential neighborhood.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Utah state division of environmental health or local
health agency having jurisdiction.
HEALTHCARE CENTER (CONVALESCENT CENTERS): A publicly or privately operated
facility, other than a hospital, intended for the long term, inpatient care of
human illness or infirmity, including the elderly and developmentally disabled,
normally employing the services of skilled and licensed practitioners.
HEAVY/FARM EQUIPMENT SALES: Vehicles or equipment in excess of one ton used in
farming, construction or other related services.
HEIGHT, BUILDING: The vertical distance from the existing grade to the highest
point of the cornice of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or to
the midpoint of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation carried on by the occupant of a dwelling as a
secondary use in connection with which there is no display other than that
provided in Meadow Town ordinances with relation to signs, no stock in trade,
and no person employed other than members of the family residing on the
premises.
HOSPITAL: An institution designed for the diagnosis, treatment and care of
human illness or infirmity and providing health services, primarily for
inpatients, and including as related facilities, laboratories, outpatient
departments, training facilities and staff offices, but not including clinics
or healthcare centers.
HOTEL: A building designed or occupied as the more or less temporary abiding
place of fifteen (15) or more individuals who are, for compensation, lodged,
with or without meals.
HOUSEHOLD PETS: Animals or birds ordinarily permitted in the house and kept for
company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats and canaries, but not including a
sufficient number of dogs to constitute a kennel, as defined in this section.
INACTION: An application is inactive and subject to denial on the basis of
inactivity if, through the act or omission solely of the applicant and not of
the town:
   A.   More than six (6) months has passed since a request for additional
information was made by the town without a response from the applicant;
   B.   Upon notice, the applicant is more than sixty (60) days in default of
the payment of any fee assessed by resolution, or has not paid the fee under
protest;
   C.   The applicant has stated an intent to abandon the project; and
   D.   The application appears to have been filed in bad faith for the purpose
of attempting to vest rights prior to a zoning change, without actual intent to
construct the project applied for.
INDUSTRIAL (OR RESEARCH) PARK: A tract of land that is subdivided and developed
according to a plan for the use of a community of industries and related uses
and that is of sufficient size and physical improvement to protect surrounding
areas and the general community and to assure a harmonious integration into the
neighborhood.
INDUSTRY, LIGHT: The manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling,
packaging or testing of goods or equipment entirely within an enclosed
structure, with no outside storage, serviced by small (3/4 ton) trucks or vans,
and imposing a nearly negligible impact upon the surrounding environment by
noise, vibration, smoke, dust or pollutants.
INDUSTRY, MEDIUM: The manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling,
packaging or testing of goods or equipment within an enclosed structure, or an
open yard that is capable of being screened from neighboring properties, is
serviced by trucks or other vehicles, and whose environmental impact is within
the industrial performance standards as outlined in this title.
INTERMITTENT USE: A temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares
and merchandise within Meadow Town.
ITINERANT MERCHANT: Any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent,
consignee or employee, whether or not a resident of the municipality, who
engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and
merchandise within the municipality, and who, in furtherance of such purpose,
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent,
railroad boxcar, public room in any hotel, motel, lodging house, apartment,
shop or any street, alley or other place within the municipality, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction. This also includes a person, firm or corporation associating
temporarily with a local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by
conducting such transient business in connection with, as part of, or in the
name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
JUNKYARD: The commercial use of any lot, portion of a lot, or tract of land for
the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other
scrap materials, or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of
automobiles, other vehicles or machinery, or parts thereof; provided, that this
definition shall not be deemed to include such uses which are clearly accessory
and incidental in the district.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: A shelter for or a place where more than three (3) dogs or
cats are bred, boarded or trained for monetary gain.
KENNEL, PRIVATE: A shelter for or a place where more than three (3) and no more
than five (5) dogs and cats are bred, boarded or trained for no monetary gain.
LAND USE APPLICATION: An application required by a municipality's land use
ordinance.
LAND USE AUTHORITY: A person, board, commission, agency or other body
designated by the local legislative body to act upon a land use application.
LAND USE ORDINANCE: A planning, zoning, development or subdivision ordinance of
the municipality, but does not include the general plan.
LATTICE TOWER: A self-supporting multiple sided, open steel frame structure
used to support telecommunications antenna equipment.
LAUNDROMAT: An establishment in which patrons wash, dry or dry clean clothing
and other fabrics in coin operated, self- service machines.
LAUNDRY: An establishment at which clothing and other fabrics are washed and
pressed. Excluded from this definition are dry cleaning establishments and
laundromats.
LEASABLE, GROSS: Total area, including hallways, mechanical equipment room and
common bathrooms.
LEGISLATIVE BODY: The Meadow Town council.
LIQUOR STORE: A retail sales store authorized by the Utah state alcoholic
beverage control commission to sell packaged alcoholic beverages for off
premises consumption.
LOCAL JURISDICTION: Meadow Town.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building or group of
buildings (main and accessory), together with such yards, open spaces, lot
width and lot area as are required by this title and having frontage upon a
street. More than one dwelling structure may be built on a lot only in cases
where the lot is of such size as to provide such required lot area, yards and
frontage for each dwelling structure as are required for the first dwelling
structure on the lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five
degrees (135o). A corner lot fronts two (2) streets.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the main direction of the side lot line.
LOT LINE: Property lines bounding the lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The property line dividing a lot or parcel from the right of
way of the street from which structure takes access.
LOT LINE, REAR: The property line opposite the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot or property line other than a front or rear lot line.
LOT WIDTH: The minimum distance between the side lot lines at the front yard or
front building facade. For three (3) sided lots, the minimum distance between
the rear and side lot lines at the front yard or front building facade.
LOW POWER RADIO SERVICES FACILITY: An unmanned structure, which consists of
equipment used primarily for the transmission, reception or transfer of voice
or data through radio wave or wireless transmissions. Such sites typically
require the construction of transmission support structures to which antenna
equipment is attached.
LUMBER SALES AND STORAGE: The sale and display of lumber and building supplies,
including the outside storage of lumber and related merchandise.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit constructed on or
after June 15, 1976, according to the HUD code, in one or more sections, that:
   A.   In the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty
(40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is four hundred
(400) or more square feet; and
   B.   Is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling,
with or without a permanent foundation, when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems.
MANUFACTURING USE: Research and development facilities, testing laboratories
and facilities for the production, fabrication, processing or assembly of goods
and products.
MASSAGE THERAPY SERVICES: See definition of Office, Professional.
MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (MPD): A form of development characterized by a
comprehensive and unified site plan and design. The MPD generally includes a
number of housing units; a mix of building types and land uses; clustered
buildings designed to integrate one with another and to complement the
surrounding land uses; significant open space; flexible in interior setbacks,
heights and density; and valued community amenities.
MEDICAL CLINIC: See definition of Office, Professional.
MENTAL HEALTH CENTER: A publicly or privately operated facility, intended for
the diagnosis and treatment of mental or emotional disorders.
MILITARY SURPLUS GOODS/STORE: New or used military equipment, vehicles or
supplies, which are available for resale to the general public.
MIXED USE, COMMERCIAL: Development which incorporates a mix of uses, including
retail commercial and/or offices and residential.
MIXED USE, HORIZONTAL: Commercial and residential uses which are within close
proximity to each other and designed in a "village" manner, but not necessarily
within the same building structures.
MIXED USE, VERTICAL: Commercial and residential uses, which are within the same
building structure.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit of not less than thirty
feet (30') in length, designed for long term occupancy and to be transported on
its own wheels or on a flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels;
containing a flush toilet, sleeping accommodations, a tub or shower bath,
kitchen facilities, and plumbing and electrical connections provided for
attachment to appropriate external systems, and ready for occupancy except for
connections to utilities and other work. Presectionalized, modular or
prefabricated houses not placed on permanent foundations, shall be regarded as
mobile homes and only authorized in mobile home parks.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A designated portion of a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home and its accessory buildings or structures
which complies with all relevant building codes and ordinances.
MOBILE HOME PAD: Pad of the mobile home space which has been prepared and
reserved for the placement of one mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A residential development in which owners of mobile homes or
manufactured housing may rent or lease a lot on which to place their home. Such
developments may provide all of the amenities and improvements typical of
subdivisions.
MOBILE HOME PARK PLUMBING SYSTEM: The park sewer and water supply systems
within the park property line.
MOBILE HOME PARK SEWAGE SYSTEM: Any pipe or line not built into the mobile home
which is used for the disposal of human waste.
MOBILE HOME SERVICE BUILDING: A building which is not a mobile home which
houses separate toilet and bathing facilities for men and women and which may
also have laundry facilities, flushing rim sink, and other facilities as may be
required by the ordinances of Meadow Town.
MODEL HOME: A dwelling unit used initially for display or marketing purposes,
with a certificate of occupancy, which typifies the units that will be
constructed.
MODULAR HOME: A permanent dwelling structure built of prefabricated units which
are assembled and erected on the site, and which meets the IBC.
MONOPOLE: A single cylindrical steel or wood pole that acts as the support
structure for antennas.
MONUMENT SIGN: A sign six feet (6') or less in height which is flush to the
ground.
MORTUARY, FUNERAL HOME: An establishment in which the human dead are prepared
for burial or cremation. The facility may include a chapel for the conduct of
funeral services, spaces for informal gatherings and related accessory uses.
MOTEL: A building or group of buildings containing individual sleeping units
designed and used primarily for the accommodation of transient automobile
travelers and with automobile parking immediately accessible.
MUNICIPAL FACILITIES: Those improved properties owned by the municipality, or
the public.
NATURAL WATERWAYS: Those areas, varying in width, along streams, creeks,
springs, gullies or washes that are natural drainage channels, as determined by
the building inspector.
NEW DEVELOPMENT: Any new construction activity.
NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE: A structure that:
   A.   Legally existed before its current land use designation; and
   B.   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not
conform to the setback, height restrictions or other regulations, excluding
those regulations, which govern the use of land.
NONCONFORMING SIGN OR SIGN STRUCTURE: A sign or sign structure, or portion
thereof, lawfully existing prior to October 21, 2014, which does not conform to
all height, area, yard, spacing, animation, lighting or other regulations
prescribed in the zone in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of land that:
   A.   Legally existed before its current land use designation;
   B.   Has been maintained continuously since the time the land use ordinance
governing the land changed; and
   C.   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not
conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.
NURSERY: A business that grows, cultivates and/or distributes and sells plants
and other landscaping or horticulture related items.
NURSING HOME: A business described also as a "rest home" or "convalescent
home", other than a hospital, in which persons are lodged long term and
furnished with care rather than diagnoses or treatment.
OFFICE, BUSINESS OR GOVERNMENT: A place intended for the conduct of
administration or services by a business enterprise or unit of government.
OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL: A place intended for the conduct of a recognized learned
profession. Such uses include offices or clinics devoted to treatment and care
of human illness or injury (medical, dental, chiropractic offices, massage
therapist and similar uses). Other professions so defined would include, but
not be limited to, accountants, architects, engineers and lawyers. Definition
does not allow for inpatient care facilities or adult oriented businesses.
OFFICIAL STREETS MASTER PLAN: As adopted by the town council, the designation
of each existing and planned street and right of way, and those located on
approved and filed plats, for the purpose of providing for the development of
the streets, highways, roads and rights of way and for their future
improvement, reconstruction, realignment and necessary widening, including
provision for curbs and sidewalks. The classification of each street and right
of way is based upon its location in the respective zoning district of the
town, its present and estimated future traffic volume and its relative
importance and function.
OFFICIAL ZONING MAP: The map adopted by the town council pursuant to law
showing the streets, zoning districts and town boundaries; and any amendments
or additions thereto resulting from the approval of any subdivision or
annexation plats and the subsequent filing of such approved plats.
OPEN SPACE: Space reserved in parks, courts, playgrounds, golf courses and
other similar open areas and those areas reserved to meet the density
requirements of planned unit development.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK: The line on the bank to which the high water
ordinarily rises annually in season as indicated by changes in the
characteristics of soil, vegetation or other appropriate means, which consider
the characteristics of the surrounding areas. Where the ordinary high water
mark cannot be found, the top of the channel bank shall be substituted. In
braided channels, the ordinary high water mark or substitute shall be measured
so as to include the entire stream feature.
OUTDOOR RECREATION, PARK OR PLAYGROUND (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE): An area free of
buildings except for restrooms, dressing rooms, equipment storage and
maintenance buildings, and open air pavilions and used primarily for recreation
activities not involving motor vehicles or overnight use.
OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL USES: Recreational activities involving off highway
vehicles and similar motorized vehicles for recreational use and horse arenas,
equestrian parks and equine activity, including, but not limited to, equine
shows, fairs, competitions, performances, racing or sales that involve any
breed of equines and any equine disciplines; boarding or training equines and
teaching persons equestrian skills. The town council may also determine other
equine activities that are consistent with this section.
OWNER: Any person, or group of persons, having record title to the property
sought to be developed or subdivided and the owner's agent.
PARCEL: An unplaced unit of land described by metes and bounds and designated
by the county recorder's office with a unique tax identification number.
PARKING AREA: An unenclosed area or lot other than a street used or designed
for parking.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area, other than a street, used for the parking
of the automobiles of occupants of a dwelling, hotel or apartment hotel.
PARKING, PUBLIC: A parking area or parking facility to be used by the public
for a fee or otherwise.
PARKING, RESIDENTIAL: A parking area or structure used exclusively for
residential, noncommercial uses.
PARKING, SHARED: The development and use of parking areas on two (2) or more
separate properties for joint use by the businesses or residents on those
properties.
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE: A space within a building or a private or public
parking area, exclusive of driveways, ramps, columns and office and work areas,
for the parking of one automobile.
PAWNSHOPS: A business dealing in or collecting used or secondhand merchandise
or personal progeny, which has been legitimately obtained.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, partnership or incorporated association of
individuals, such as a club.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Establishments primarily involved in providing personal
grooming and related services. This definition shall include barber shops,
beauty parlors, tailors and massage services, but not laundries or dry
cleaners.
PET GROOMING: The grooming of small pets such as dogs and cats; provided, that
no more than five (5) animals may be on the premises at one time and that no
lodging of animals is allowed.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The Meadow Town planning and zoning commission.
PLAT: A map or other graphical representation of lands being laid out and
prepared in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-603 et seq. See
chapter 10, "General Design Standards For Construction And Development", of
this title.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: The preliminary drawings of a proposed subdivision,
specifying the layout, uses and restrictions.
PRESCHOOL: The education or teaching of children, including kindergarten
preparation, music lessons, etc.
PROPERTY: Any parcel, lot or tract of land, including improvements thereon, in
the possession of or owned by, or recorded as the real property of, the same
person or persons.
PROPERTY LINE: The boundary line of a parcel or lot.
PROPERTY LINE, FRONT: That pad of a parcel or lot which abuts a street.
PUBLIC HEARING: A hearing at which members of the public are provided a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any building, water system, drainage ditch, roadway,
parkway, sidewalk, pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off street parking lot, space or
structure, lot improvement, or other facility for which the town may ultimately
assume responsibility, or which may effect a town improvement.
PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting that is required to be open to the public under Utah
Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4, open and public meetings.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: An area of land that is legally described in a registered
deed for the provision of public access.
PUBLIC SERVICE: Uses which may be housed in separate buildings, or which may
occupy a space within a building, that are operated by a unit of government to
serve public needs such as police (with jail), fire service, ambulance, post
office or judicial court, but not including public utility stations or
maintenance facilities.
PUBLIC STREET: A street, including the entire right of way, which has been
dedicated to and accepted by Meadow Town or other governmental agency, or which
has been devoted to public use by legal mapping, use or other means.
PUBLIC UTILITY STATIONS: A structure or facility used by a public or quasi-
public agency to store, distribute, generate or chemically treat water, power,
gas, sewage, equipment or other service elements.
RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A graphic illustration of a survey of land prepared in
accordance with state laws.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular unit, other than a mobile home, primarily
designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation use,
which is either self-propelled or is mounted on or pulled by another vehicle,
including, but not limited to, a travel trailer, a camping trailer, a truck
camper, a motor home, a fifth wheel trailer and a van.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (TRAVEL TRAILER PARK): Any area or tract of land or
separately designated section where lots are rented to one or more owners or
users of recreational vehicles for a temporary time.
RELIGIOUS, EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTE: A 28 USC 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization
engaged in teaching, community programs or spiritual endeavors, which qualifies
as a tax exempt religious institution under title 28 of the United States Code.
REPAIR SERVICES, SMALL APPLIANCE OR EQUIPMENT: An establishment for the repair
of household or other small appliances or equipment and at which no such
appliances or their parts are stored out of doors.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE ELDERLY: A long term care residential facility for
elderly persons. The term does not include a healthcare facility.
RESIDENTIAL SUPPORT: Arranging for or providing the necessities of life as a
protective service to individuals or families who are disabled or who are
experiencing a dislocation or emergency which prevents them from providing
these services for themselves or their families. Treatment is not a necessary
component of residential support.
RESOURCE FAMILY HOME: A home licensed to provide services to a child in the
custody of the state and includes a foster care home and a legal risk home.
RESTAURANT, CAFE, CONFECTIONERY: An establishment where food is prepared and
served to customers for consumption on the premises.
RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD, DRIVE-IN: An establishment distinguished from a
traditional sit down restaurant in that service is provided from a counter or
window for consumption either off or on the premises; on premises consumption
normally requires considerably less time than consumption in a traditional
restaurant. Service may also be provided to customers in automobiles by use of
an outside drive-up window; parking is provided immediately adjacent to the
building. This definition includes also specialty food stores such as ice cream
parlors or delicatessens, having counter or window service.
RESUBDIVISION: A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat if
such change affects any right of way or lot line; or any change in a map or
plan legally recorded prior to the adoption of regulations controlling
subdivisions.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land, dedicated to public use, that is occupied or
reserved to be occupied, by a street, crosswalk, trail, stairway, railroad,
road, utilities, or for another special use.
ROAD CLASSIFICATION: The streets, highways, roads and rights of way designated
on the streets master plan.
ROAD RIGHT OF WAY WIDTH: The distance between property lines measured at right
angles to the centerline of the street.
ROOF: The building element, which covers the top of the structure as the walls
enclose the sides.
SANITARY SEWER AUTHORITY: The department, agency or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services
or on site wastewater systems.
SATELLITE RECEIVING STATION: Any apparatus or device designed for the purpose
of transmitting and/or receiving radio, television, satellite microwave or
other electromagnetic energy signals between terrestrially and/or orbital based
uses. This definition includes, but is not limited to, what are commonly
referred to as satellite earth stations, satellite microwave antennas, TVROs or
dish antennas. This definition does not include conventional television
antennas.
SCHOOL, PRIVATE OR QUASI-PUBLIC: A school operated by a private or quasi-public
organization or individual, which has a program similar to that provided in any
public school in the state of Utah, except that such curriculum may include
religious instruction. A private school may be a profit making or nonprofit
organization. This definition shall not include commercial schools.
SCHOOL, PUBLIC: An educational facility operated by a school district or other
public agency of the state of Utah.
SCREEN OR SCREENED: The act, process or result of visually and/or audibly
shielding or obscuring a structure or use from adjacent property by fencing,
walls, berms, densely planted vegetation or other features.
SECURE TREATMENT: Twenty four (24) hour specialized residential treatment or
care for persons whose current functioning is such that they cannot live
independently or in a less restrictive environment. "Secure treatment" differs
from residential treatment to the extent that it requires intensive
supervision, locked doors and other security measures which are imposed on
residents with neither their consent nor control.
SENIOR CITIZEN CENTER: A government sponsored public building, other than a
church or school, serving the social and recreational needs of the elderly.
Such a center may include a meeting hall and cooking and dining facilities for
large groups, but shall not provide overnight lodging.
SETBACK: The required minimum distance between a building or structure and the
closest of the following: property line; platted street; or existing curb or
edge of a street.
SHOPPING CENTER, COMMUNITY (RETAIL BUSINESS): A completely planned and designed
commercial development providing for the sale of general merchandise and
convenience goods and including a variety store, discount store or supermarket.
SHOPPING CENTER, NEIGHBORHOOD: A planned commercial development providing
primarily for the sale of convenience goods and services. The center is
designed to serve a residential neighborhood.
SIGN: Any words, letters, pads of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, trade names or trade masks, by which anything is
made known, such as are used to designate an individual, a firm, an
association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a commodity or product,
which are visible from any public way. Sign shall also include the sign
structure supports, lighting system and any attachments, ornaments or other
features intended to draw the attention of observers.
  A-Frame Sign: A sign constructed with two (2) sides attached at the top so as
to allow the sign to stand in an upright position. Usually temporary and/or
movable.
  Alteration, Sign: A change or rearrangement in the structural part or design
of a sign, whether by extending on a side, by increasing in area or height, or
by relocating or change in position.
  Animated Sign: A sign which includes motion or rotation of any part by
mechanical or artificial means, or subdued color changes.
  Awning Sign: A sign painted, printed or placed on any portion of a cloth or
fabric covering.
  Banner Sign: A sign made of fabric or any nonrigid material with no enclosing
framework. A type of temporary sign.
  Billboard Sign: An off premises advertising sign.
  Campaign Sign: A temporary sign used by candidates running for political and
elected offices and signs with political purposes.
  Flashing Sign: A sign which has or appears to have motion or rotation of the
lighting elements or displays flashing or intermittent light.
  Flat Sign: A sign erected parallel to and attached to the outside wall of a
building and extending not more than twenty four inches (24") from such wall
with messages of copy on the face side only.
  Floodlighted Or Externally Lighted Sign: A sign made legible in the absence
of daylight by devices, which reflect or project light upon it.
  Illuminated Sign: A sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or
outlines illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes.
  Mobile Changeable Copy Sign: A sign mounted on a trailer or frame, lighted or
unlighted, with changeable lettering.
  Nameplate Sign: A sign indicating the name or names of persons legally
occupying the premises.
  Overhanging Sign: A sign which projects twelve inches (12") or more beyond
any portion of the roof of a building.
  Pole Sign: A sign affixed in or upon the ground supported by one or more
structural members, with air space between the ground and the bottom of the
sign face.
  Roof Sign: A sign which is erected partly or wholly on the roof of the
building.
  Sign Area: The area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding
the minimum frame and supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a back
to back or double faced sign shall be computed when signs are parallel or
diverge from a common edge by an angle of not more than ten degrees (10o). For
signs that do not have a frame or a separate background, the sign area shall be
computed on the basis of the least rectangle, triangle or circle large enough
to frame the display. Sign areas in the shape of a sphere, prism, cylinder,
cone, pyramid, square or other such shape shall be computed as one-half (1/2)
of the total surface area.
  Sign Maintenance: The upkeep of signs in a safe, presentable and good
condition, including the replacement of defective pads, repainting, cleaning
and other aids required for the maintenance of said sign.
  Sign Setback: The minimum distance that any portion of a sign or sign
structure shall be from any street property line.
  Sign Structure: Anything constructed or erected supporting a sign, which
requires locations on or below the ground or attached to something having
location on or below the ground.
  Snipe Sign: A temporary sign or poster, which is attached to the supports for
another sign, a public utility pole, tree, fence, etc.
  Temporary Sign: Any sign, banner, pennant, valance or advertising display
constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or
other light material, with or without frames, intended to be displayed out of
doors for a short period of time.
SIGNIFICANT VEGETATION: Includes all large trees six inches (6") in diameter or
greater measured four and one-half feet (41/2') above the ground, all groves of
small trees, and all clumps of oak or maple covering an area fifty (50) square
feet or more measured at the drip line.
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: Regulations unique to each zone conceding standards
for development, including, but not limited to, lot areas, setbacks and
building height.
SITE DISTANCE TRIANGLE: A triangular area at the intersection of two (2)
streets bounded by top back of curb and a line connecting them at points twenty
five feet (25') from the intersection of the two (2) curb lines.
SKETCH PLAT: A sketch preparatory to the preliminary plat, or subdivision plat
in the case of minor subdivisions, to enable the owner to save time and expense
in reaching a general agreement with the planning and zoning commission as to
the form of the plat.
SLOPE: The level of inclination of land from the horizontal plane determined by
dividing the horizontal run, or distance, of the land into the vertical rise,
or distance, of the same land and converting the resulting figure to a
percentage value.
SMALL ENGINE REPAIR: An establishment engaged in the repair and maintenance of
small engines with an engine displacement size no greater than two thousand
(2,000) cc. This includes, but is not limited to, motorcycles, OHVs, ATVs, home
and garden tools and equipment, outboard motor watercraft (engine removed),
snowmobiles, chain saws and other similar small engines.
SOLICITORS: Any person who goes upon the premises of any business or private
residence, not having been invited by the occupant thereof, for the purpose of
selling, offering for sale or taking orders for merchandise or services door to
door within the town. Merchandise shall include goods, food, wares, photographs
and subscriptions to any kind of publication, tickets, coupons or receipts
representing value.
SPECIAL DISTRICT: An entity established under the authority of Utah Code
Annotated title 17D, special districts, and any other governmental or quasi-
governmental entity that is not a county, municipality, school district or unit
of the state.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory structure used for the keeping and
housing of livestock by the occupants of the premises.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A stable other than a private stable.
STEALTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: A telecommunications facility, which is
disguised as another object or otherwise concealed from public view.
STORAGE LAND SEA CONTAINERS: Any trailer commonly described as a storage
container or storage unit, including, but not limited to, semitrailers, cargo
trailers and any other similar unit with a storage space of greater than one
hundred twenty (120) square feet.
STORY: A habitable level within a building serving to define the building
height. Basements that emerge less than four feet (4') from grade or attics not
exceeding four feet (4') at the kick wall shall not constitute an additional
story.
STORY, HALF: A story with at least two (2) of its opposite sides situated in a
sloping roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the
floor immediately below it.
STREAM: A naturally fed watercourse that flows year around or intermittently
during years of normal rainfall. This definition excludes ditches and canals
constructed for irrigation and drainage purposes.
STREAM CORRIDOR: The corridor defined by the stream's ordinary high water mark.
STREET: A private or public right of way, highway, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
road, lane, walk, alley, viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge, public easements and
other way.
STREET, ACCESS: A street that serves a small number of dwellings and usually
does not allow through traffic. Usual ADT (average daily traffic) range is zero
to two hundred fifty (0-250) vehicles.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street which provides for through traffic movement between
areas and across the city, with moderate access to abutting property, subject
to necessary control of entrances, exits and curb use, and also provides access
to highways. Arterials are not usually included in residential street plans.
Maximum ADT is three thousand plus (3,000+) vehicles.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street that provides for a high volume of traffic movement
between major arterials and local streets, and direct access to abutting
property. Usual ADT range is one thousand (1,000) to three thousand (3,000)
vehicles.
STREET, LOCAL: A street that provides for direct access to abutting land and
for local traffic movements.
STREET, PRIVATE: A right of way or easement in private ownership, not dedicated
or maintained as a public street, which affords the principal means of access
to two (2) or more lots.
STREET, PUBLIC: A street that has been dedicated to and accepted by the town
council; that the town has acquired and accepted by prescriptive right; or that
the town owns in fee. A public thoroughfare which affords principal means of
access to abutting property and has a right of way that exceeds twenty six feet
(26') in width. The term public street shall include avenue, drive, circle,
road, parkway, boulevard, highway, thoroughfare or any other similar term.
STREET, SUBCOLLECTOR: A street which conveys traffic to more dwellings and
includes through traffic between access streets and collectors. Usual ADT range
is two hundred fifty (250) to one thousand (1,000) vehicles.
STREETSCAPE: The distinguishing characteristics of a particular street,
including paving materials, adjacent space on both sides of the street,
landscaping, retaining walls, sidewalks, building facades, lighting, medians,
street furniture and signs.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires a fixed location on
or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the
ground and which imposes an impervious material on or above the ground.
Structure includes the term "building".
STRUCTURE, PREEXISTING: A structure which was legally constructed prior to
October 21, 2014.
SUBDIVISION: A. Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be
divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other
division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
lease or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
plans, terms, and conditions.
   B.   "Subdivision" includes:
      1.   The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument; and
      2.   Except as provided in subsection C of this definition, divisions of
land for residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used
for commercial, agricultural and industrial purposes.
   C.   "Subdivision" does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable land
use ordinance;
      2.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining unsubdivided
properties adjusting their mutual boundary if:
    a. No new lot is created; and
    b. The adjustment does not violate applicable land use ordinances;
      3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
    a. Revising the legal description of more than one contiguous unsubdivided
parcel of property into one legal description encompassing all such parcels of
property; or
    b. Joining a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of property
that has not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate applicable land
use ordinances;
      4.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting their mutual boundary if:
    a. No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the adjustment; and
    b. The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use ordinance; or
      5.   A bona fide division or partition of land by deed or other
instrument where the land use authority expressly approves in writing the
division in anticipation of further land use approvals on the parcel or
parcels.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a subdivision under
this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to the municipality's subdivision ordinance.
SUBDIVISION, MAJOR: All subdivisions of ten (10) or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of municipal facilities, or
the creation of any public improvements, and not in conflict with any provision
or portion of the general plan, official zoning map, streets master plan or
these regulations.
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: Any subdivision containing less than ten (10) lots that may
require the recording of a plat and all or part of the development requirement
of a major subdivision, and not in conflict with any provision or portion of
the general plan, official zoning map, streets master plan or these
regulations.
SUBDIVISION PLAT: The final map or drawing, on which the applicant's plan of
subdivision is presented to the town council for approval and which, if
approved, may be submitted to the county recorder for filing.
SUBDIVISION, SIMPLE LOT: Any subdivision containing not more than three (3)
lots fronting on an existing street, not involving any new street, or the
extension of municipal facilities, or the creation of any public improvements,
and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property,
and not in conflict with any provision or portion of the general plan, official
land use map, streets master plan, or these regulations. Subdivisions
qualifying as a simple lot subdivision are exempt from the plat requirement.
SURPLUS SECONDHAND STORE: An establishment that sells surplus items, used
furniture, appliances, clothing and miscellaneous small items. Excluded from
this definition are establishments selling used motor vehicles, their parts,
military surplus and other heavy equipment.
TECHNICAL NECESSITY: A particular design, placement, construction or location
of a telecommunications facility that is technically necessary for
telecommunications consistent with the federal telecommunications act of 1996,
as amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by a
user, of information of the user's choosing, without change in the form or
content of the information as sent or received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY, MINOR: A telecommunications facility of less than
thirty five feet (35') in height consisting of antenna, equipment shelters and
related structures used for transmitting and/or receiving telecommunications
and/or radio stations.
TEMPORARY OUTDOOR USE: A use, activity, vending cart, special event or
commercial use outside that is not permanent in nature and after a seventy two
(72) hour time period ceases or is removed.
TEMPORARY USE: A use, activity or special event that is not permanent in nature
and after a designated time period ceases or is removed.
THEATER, CONCERT HALL: A building or amphitheater used primarily for the
presentation of live stage productions or performances.
TRAILER, TRAVEL: See definition of Recreational Vehicle.
TRANSFER STATION: A facility designed for the transfer and transport of solid
waste.
TRAVEL PARK: See definition of Recreational Vehicle Park.
UNINCORPORATED: The area outside of the incorporated boundaries of cities and
towns.
USE: The activities occurring on a lot or parcel of land for which land or a
building is arranged, designed or intended, or for which land or a building is
or may be occupied, including all accessory uses.
USE, PREEXISTING: A use which validly existed prior to October 21, 2014, and
has not been abandoned for more than six (6) months.
VENDING CART: A small wheeled, nonmotorized vehicle from which to sell food
and/or merchandise for immediate consumption or use.
WAREHOUSE STORAGE UNITS: A building in which goods, merchandise or equipment
are stored for eventual distribution, or for which storage space is rented.
WELDING MACHINE SHOP: A building or structure where pieces of metal are welded.
YARD: An open space on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward.
YARD, FRONT: An open, unoccupied space, in the same lot with a building,
between the front line of the main building and the street line and extending
for the full width of the lot.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the most
rear main building and the rear lot line. The depth of the required rear yard
shall be measured horizontally from the nearest point of the rear lot line. On
lots that are not rectangular in shape, the required minimum rear yard may be
an average of the distances measured from the rear corners of the main building
directly to the rear lot line.
YARD, SIDE: An open, unoccupied space, except as otherwise provided in this
title, on the same lot with the building, between the side line of the building
and the side lot line, and extending from the front yard to the rear yard; or
the shortest distance across said space from the main building to the side lot
line.
YOUTH HOME: A twenty four (24) hour group living environment for three (3) to
five (5) persons under the age of eighteen (18), unrelated to an owner or
operator that offers room, board or specialized services to residents. "Youth
home" may include facilities for the following: resource family home, child
placement or residential support as defined in Utah Code Annotated title 62A.
"Youth home" shall not include facilities for the following: secure treatment,
inpatient treatment, residential treatment, adult daycare, day treatment,
comprehensive mental health treatment youth program, comprehensive substance
abuse treatment or domestic violence treatment as defined in Utah Code
Annotated title 62A.
YOUTH PROGRAM: A. A nonresidential program, designed to provide behavioral,
substance abuse or mental health services to minors that:
      1.   Serves either adjudicated or nonadjudicated youth;
      2.   Charges a fee for its services;
      3.   May or may not provide host homes or other arrangements for
overnight accommodation of the youth;
      4.   May or may not provide all or part of its services in the outdoors;
      5.   May or may not limit or censor access to parents or guardians; and
      6.   Prohibits or restricts a minor's ability to leave the program at any
time of his own free will.
   B.   "Youth program" does not include recreational programs, such as Boy
Scouts, Girl Scouts, 4-H and other such organizations.
ZONING MAP: A map, also known as a land use map, adopted as part of a land use
ordinance that depicts land use zones, overlays or districts. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-
6-2017)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Fees Paid Prior To Review
10-3-2: Temporary Or Emergency Zoning
10-3-3: Applications For Development
10-3-4: Conditional Use Review
10-3-5: Notice Requirements
10-3-6: Termination Of Projects For Inaction
10-3-7: Appeals And Considerations
10-3-8: Constitutional Takings Review And Appeal
10-3-9: Licenses Issued In Violation
10-3-10: Penalty
10-3-1: FEES PAID PRIOR TO REVIEW:
No review shall occur until all applicable fees, as established by resolution
of the Town Council, have been paid. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-3-2: TEMPORARY OR EMERGENCY ZONING:
   A.   The Town Council may enact an ordinance, without a public hearing or
Planning and Zoning Commission recommendation, which establishes temporary
zoning regulations for any part or all of the area within the Municipality if
the:
      1.   Town Council makes a written finding of compelling, countervailing
public interest; or
      2.   Area is not zoned.
   B.   Temporary zoning regulations may prohibit or regulate the erection,
construction, reconstruction or alteration of any building or structure or any
subdivision approval. The Town Council shall establish a period of limited
effect for the ordinance, which period may not exceed six (6) months. (Ord. 04-
2017, 4-6-2017)
10-3-3: APPLICATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Plan Review Process: The Meadow Town Council will review and recommend
all applications for development and will determine if all requirements have
been met. (Ord. 2019-3, 9-18-2018)
   B.   Application: An applicant for new development shall contact the Town
Council to discuss the scope and purpose of the proposed development and the
requirements of this title, including the following:
      1.   An allowed use within the zone;
      2.   Complies with all applicable development requirements of the zone,
including building height, setback, front, side and rear yards, and lot size;
      3.   Respects lot lines of a legally subdivided lot;
      4.   Complies with the parking requirements for the zone;
      5.   Conforms with applicable design guidelines, if any, for the zone;
      6.   Can adequately be serviced by roads, existing or proposed utility
systems or lines;
      7.   Does not infringe on any existing easements;
      8.   Has permit for a septic system if, required. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-
2017)
   C.   Contents Of Application: The applicant shall provide the Meadow Town
Council with: (Ord. 2019-3, 9-18-2018)
      1.   A statement of intended use;
      2.   Drawings in sufficient detail to allow the Council to review the
proposal for compliance with this title;
      3.   The property identification number assigned by the County;
      4.   Project identification, location, developer and developers address
and contact information;
      5.   Concept drawings shall be either eight and one-half inches by eleven
inches (81/2" x 11") or eleven inches by seventeen inches (11" x 17"), and
shall include the following:
         a.   Property lines and dimensions indicating total site area, gross
area of all buildings and structures;
         b.   North arrow;
         c.   Proposed buildings or additions.
      6.   Location of new buildings and structures;
      7.   Location of existing buildings and structures;
      8.   Building elevations;
      9.   Any further information related to site development as requested by
Town officials. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
   D.   Town Council Review And Decision: Once the Meadow Town Council has
reviewed the development, the Town Council shall either accept and approve,
approve with conditions, or deny the application. (Ord. 2019-3, 9-18-2018)
   E.   Building Permit: Upon approval of the building and site plan drawings,
and payment of all applicable fees, the Town Council shall issue a building
permit to the applicant. Building permit fees will be set by resolution.
   F.   Inspections: The building official or other designated official shall
inspect the project during construction through its completion.
   G.   Rejected Uses: If an application does not meet the criteria set forth
above, the Town Council shall notify the applicant, stating specifically which
criteria have not been satisfied.
   H.   Disclaimer: No permit shall be valid if any of the criteria listed in
this section have not been met. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-3-4: CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW:
There are certain uses that, because of unique characteristics or the potential
for detrimental impacts, may not be compatible in some areas of a zone or may
be compatible only if certain conditions are imposed. The Planning and Zoning
Commission will evaluate all conditional use permit applications, except
administrative conditional uses, which are decided by the Town Council. The
Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend to the Town Council certain
conditions of approval to applications for conditional use permits. The
Planning and Zoning Commission shall review all applications for a conditional
use permit according to the following procedure:
   A.   Application: An applicant must pay all appropriate fees and must file a
complete application. Fees will be set by resolution.
   B.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of a complete application, the Planning
and Zoning Commission may conduct a public hearing in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated section 10-9a-201 et seq. on the conditional use permit application
and shall either recommend approval, denial or modification to the Town
Council.
   C.   Standards For Review: A conditional use permit shall not be issued
unless the Town Council, for all conditional uses, concludes that the
application complies with the standards of review specific to the zone in which
the use is proposed.
   D.   Transferability: A conditional use permit runs with the land.
   E.   Expiration: Unless otherwise indicated in the final conditions,
conditional use permits shall expire one year from the date of initial
approval, unless the conditionally permitted use has commenced on the site.
   F.   Annual Review: The Planning and Zoning Commission may review
conditional use permits on an annual basis for compliance with all final
conditions of approval.
   G.   Revocation: If the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Town Council
determines that the holder of a conditional use permit is in violation of the
terms or conditions upon which the permit was issued, the Town Clerk shall
notify the permit holder and schedule a hearing before the Town Council at
which the permit holder must show cause to the Town Council why the conditional
use permit should not be revoked. If the Town Council determines that the terms
or conditions of the permit have been violated, it shall cause the permit
holder to specify how the holder will promptly comply with the terms and
conditions of the permit, or it shall revoke the permit.
   H.   Appeals: Appeals must be pursuant to section
10-3-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-3-5: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Notice of all public hearings and public meetings relative to land use
provisions shall follow the procedures of Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-201
et seq. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-3-6: TERMINATION OF PROJECTS FOR INACTION:
Applicants must move their projects either to approval or denial in a
reasonably expeditious manner. Upon fourteen (14) days' written notice to the
applicant, the town may formally deny an application which remains inactive for
six (6) months. Delays occasioned by the town shall not constitute cause for
terminating an application. An applicant may appeal the town council's denial
of a project for inaction to the appeal authority in the same manner as any
other appeal. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-3-7: APPEALS AND CONSIDERATIONS:
The applicant, staff or any other person with standing to challenge a decision
administering or interpreting this title may appeal the decision as follows:
   A.   Zoning Title Interpretation And Administration: All town decisions
which interpret or administer this title, may be appealed to the appeal
authority within ten (10) days of final action, by filing notice of appeal with
the town clerk.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: The appeal authority shall hear appeals of town
council decisions with respect to a conditional use permit. The appeal must be
filed with the town clerk within ten (10) days of the town council action.
   C.   Standing To Appeal: The following persons have standing to appeal a
final action:
      1.   Any person who submitted written comment or testified on a proposal
before the town council;
      2.   The owner of any property within three hundred feet (300') of the
boundary of the subject site;
      3.   Any town official, board or commission having jurisdiction over the
matter; and
      4.   The owner of the subject property.
   D.   Form Of Appeals: Appeals must be filed with the town clerk and must be
by letter or petition, with the name, address and telephone number of the
petitioner; his or her relationship to the project or subject property; and a
comprehensive statement of the reasons for the appeal, including the specific
provisions of law that are alleged to be violated by the action taken.
   E.   Written Findings Required: The appeal authority shall prepare detailed
written findings of fact, which explain the circumstances of the body's
decision; and conclusions of law in support of its decision.
   F.   Standards For Appeals: The appeal authority shall comply with the
following standards for all appeals:
      1.   The town clerk, in consultation with the appellant, shall set a date
for the appeal;
      2.   The town clerk shall notify the owner of the appeal date;
      3.   The appeal authority shall consider the written appeal, final action
and all other pertinent information from the appellant, town council and
planning and zoning commission;
      4.   The appeal authority may affirm, reverse or affirm in part and
reverse in part any properly appealed decision or may remand the matter with
directions for specific areas of review or clarification. Appellate review is
limited to consideration of only those matters raised in the written appeal and
the staff's responses thereto, unless the appeal authority, by motion, enlarges
the scope of the appeal to accept information on other matters; and
      5.   The appeal authority shall prepare written findings for review and
approval within thirty (30) working days of the appeal authority decision.
   G.   Notice: Notice of all appeals shall be given by mailing courtesy notice
ten (10) days prior to the hearing to the applicant and all parties who
requested mailed courtesy notice for the original action.
   H.   Stay Of Approval Pending Review Of Appeal: Upon appeal, any approval
granted by the town council will be suspended until the reviewing body has
taken final action on the appeal.
   I.   Further Appeal To District Court: The applicant or any person aggrieved
by appeal authority may appeal from the final action of the appeal authority to
a court of competent jurisdiction. The decision shall stand, and those affected
by the decision may act in reliance on it unless and until a court enters an
interlocutory or final order modifying or suspending the decision.
   J.   Finality Of Action: Final action occurs when the deciding body has
adopted and executed written findings of fact and conclusions of law on the
matter in question. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-3-8: CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS REVIEW AND APPEAL:
To promote the protection of private property rights and to prevent the
physical taking or exaction of private property without just compensation, the
town council and all commissions and boards shall adhere to the following
before authorizing the seizure or exaction of property:
   A.   Takings Review Procedure: Prior to any proposed action to exact or
seize property, the town attorney shall review the proposed action to determine
if a constitutional taking requiring "just compensation" would occur. The town
attorney shall review all such matters pursuant to the guidelines established
in subsection B of this section. Upon identifying a possible constitutional
taking, the town attorney shall, in a confidential, protected writing, inform
the town council, commission or board of the possible consequences of its
action. This opinion shall be advisory only. No liability shall be attributed
to the town for failure to follow the recommendation of the town attorney.
   B.   Takings Guidelines: The town attorney shall review whether the action
constitutes a constitutional taking under the fifth or fourteenth amendments to
the constitution of the United States, or under article I, section 22 of the
Utah constitution. The town attorney shall determine whether the proposed
action bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest and
whether the action is roughly proportionate and reasonably related to the
legitimate governmental interest. The town attorney shall also determine
whether the action deprives the private property owner of all reasonable use of
the property. These guidelines are advisory only and shall not expand nor limit
the scope of the town's liability for a constitutional taking.
   C.   Appeal: Any owner of private property who believes that his/her
property is proposed to be "taken" by an otherwise final action of the town may
appeal the town decision to the appeal authority within thirty (30) days after
the decision is made. The appeal must be filed in writing with the town clerk.
The appeal authority shall hear and approve and remand or reject the appeal
within fourteen (14) calendar days after the appeal is filed. The appeal
authority, with advice from the town attorney, shall review the appeal pursuant
to the guidelines in subsection B of this section. The decision of the appeal
authority shall be in writing and a copy given to the appellant and to the town
council, commission or board that took the initial action. The appeal authority
rejection of an appeal constitutes exhaustion of administrative remedies
rendering the matter suitable for appeal to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-3-9: LICENSES ISSUED IN VIOLATION:
Licenses or permits issued in violation of this title, or based on fraudulent
information, are null and void. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-3-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, partnership or corporation, and the principals or agents
thereof, violating or causing the violation of this title, or a permit issued
pursuant to this title, shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
CHAPTER 4
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION AND APPEAL AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-4-1: Planning And Zoning Commission
10-4-2: Appeal Authority
10-4-1: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Created; Membership:
      1.   There is created a planning and zoning commission to be composed of
five (5) voting members, one nonvoting member, who is a representative of the
town council, and one alternate member. Members of the planning and zoning
commission shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the
town council. The ex officio member of the planning and zoning commission shall
be appointed from among members of the town council by the mayor, with the
advice and consent of the town council. The alternate member shall be utilized
in order to maintain a quorum.
      2.   The planning and zoning commission shall consist of five (5)
residents of the town. At least three (3) of these five (5) members shall hold
no other public office or position within the town. Members shall be selected
without respect to political affiliations.
   B.   Compensation; Expenses: The members of the planning and zoning
commission shall serve without compensation, but the town council shall provide
for the reimbursement of the members of the planning and zoning commission for
reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties as members of the
planning and zoning commission.
   C.   Appointment; Term; Vacancies; Officers:
      1.   The term of office of the members of the planning and zoning
commission, with the exception of the ex officio member, shall be five (5)
years, and until their respective successors shall have been appointed. The
terms of the initial members shall be staggered, so that three (3) members
serve for three (3) years, and two (2) members serve for two (2) years. The
alternate shall serve a two (2) year term. Appointments shall be made at the
beginning of the calendar year.
      2.   Vacancies in the planning and zoning commission occurring for any
reason other than the expiration of a term of office shall be filled through
appointment by the mayor with the advice and consent of the town council.
Members appointed to fill such vacancies shall serve for the remainder of the
unexpired term. The ex officio member shall serve at the pleasure of the town
council, or until his or her term as a council person has expired, at which
time a successor shall be appointed from among the members of the town council
by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the town council. Any member may
be reappointed for an additional term.
      3.   There is no limit to the number of terms a member may serve. In a
public meeting, the mayor may remove from office any member of the planning and
zoning commission for misconduct or nonperformance of duty. Unexcused absence
from three (3) consecutive regular meetings of the planning and zoning
commission shall constitute nonperformance of duty.
      4.   The planning and zoning commission shall elect from among its
members a chairperson, whose term shall be one year. Any member may be
reelected for an additional term as chairperson. There is no limit to the
number of terms a member may serve as chairperson. If, for any reason, the
position of chairperson is vacated before the elected member's term has
expired, the planning and zoning commission shall elect from among its members
a successor, who shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   D.   Powers, Duties And Authority: The planning and zoning commission shall
be the land use authority that:
      1.   Prepares and recommends a general plan and amendments to the general
plan to the town council;
      2.   Prepares and recommends to the town council zoning ordinances and
maps, and amendments to zoning ordinances and maps which conform to the
provisions of the general plan adopted by the town council;
      3.   Administers provisions of this title, where specifically provided
for in this title adopted by the town council;
      4.   Prepares and recommends to the town council subdivision regulations
and amendments to those regulations which conform to the provisions of the
general plan adopted by the town council;
      5.   Recommends approval or denial of subdivision applications;
      6.   Advises the town council on matters as the town council directs and
hears, or decides any matters that the town council designates and as otherwise
authorized by state law;
      7.   Conducts such public hearings as are required by the law or as may
be deemed necessary by the planning and zoning commission;
      8.   Has the power and authority to employ experts and a staff and to pay
such expenses as may be reasonable and necessary for carrying out the duties of
the planning and zoning commission, but not in excess of such sums as may be
appropriated by the town council and/or which may be placed at the disposal of
the planning and zoning commission by gift or otherwise;
      9.   May enter upon any public or private land, with permission of the
landowner and at reasonable times, to make examinations or surveys;
      10.   Hears and decides any matters that the town council designates,
including the approval or denial of conditional use permits and review of
nonconforming uses and structures; and
      11.   Exercises other powers that are necessary to enable it to perform
its function, or that are delegated to it by the town council.
   E.   Organization: The planning and zoning commission may adopt such rules
that it deems necessary for the conduct of its proceedings. The planning and
zoning commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the town
clerk, which shall be the office of the planning and zoning commission, and
shall be a public record.
   F.   Meetings: The planning and zoning commission shall meet monthly, and at
such times as the planning and zoning commission may determine necessary.
Meetings shall be held at the town offices or at such other reasonable
locations within the town as the planning and zoning commission may adjourn
from time to time. Meetings shall be held in accordance with the provisions of
Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-101, as amended, entitled open and public
meetings, or any successor statute enacted in its place.
   G.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the planning and zoning commission shall
constitute a quorum. An alternate member may be counted as part of the
membership for a quorum. A majority of the voting members present at a meeting
at which a quorum is present shall be required for any action. No less than
three (3) yes votes are required for passage of any action.
   H.   Conformance With General Plan: Upon adoption of the general plan by the
town council, thereafter, no street, park or other public way, ground, place or
space; no public building or structure; and no public utility, whether publicly
or privately owned, shall be constructed or authorized until and unless the
location and extent thereof shall conform to the general plan.
   I.   Member Ethics:
      1.   A member should not personally benefit from information members get
as a result of being on the planning and zoning commission.
      2.   Members are there to represent and protect the interests of the
general public, not those of a specific profession or group.
      3.   A member should not show bias, positively or negatively, towards the
people who appear before a member.
      4.   There should never be favoritism based on race, religion, gender,
ethnicity, social standing, or length of residency.
      5.   Approach problems with an open mind rather than with preset
assumptions about the issue or a petitioner.
      6.   Understand that while making administrative decisions, members are
as bound by the law as anyone in the community. Members are subject to the same
rules as elected officials.
      7.   Be aware that, as a representative of the town, members are
establishing the credibility of our town government and should, therefore, act
accordingly. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-4-2: APPEAL AUTHORITY:
   A.   Membership, Appointment And Organization: The appeal authority shall
consist of three (3) members and such alternate members as the mayor deems
appropriate. Two (2) members shall reside outside the town limit and one member
shall reside within the town limits. Members shall have prior experience in
planning and zoning issues. Each member shall be appointed by the mayor with
the advice and consent of the town council. The appeal authority shall elect a
chairperson and vice chairperson from among themselves for a one year term. The
town clerk shall serve as secretary to the appeal authority. The appeal
authority shall act as the appeal authority as that term is used throughout
Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, with regard to those powers
enumerated in subsection G of this section.
   B.   Length Of Term; Vacancies: Each member is appointed for a term of five
(5) years, and until their successors shall have been appointed. The terms of
the initial members of the appeal authority shall be staggered so that two (2)
members serve for three (3) years, and one member serves for two (2) years.
Appointments shall be made at the beginning of the calendar year. Any member
may be removed for cause by the mayor upon written charges and after public
hearing, if such public hearing is requested by the member. Vacancies in the
appeal authority occurring for any reason other than the expiration of a term
of office shall be filled through appointment by the mayor, with the advice and
consent of the town council. Members appointed to fill such vacancies shall
serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. Any member may be reappointed
for an additional term. There is no limit to the number of terms a member may
serve. In a public meeting, the mayor may remove from office any member of the
appeal authority for misconduct or nonperformance of duty.
   C.   Matters For Determination; Time Limit For Completion: Upon
determination that there is an unresolved request concerning any ordinance
covered under the town general plan and succeeding ordinances, the matter will
be delivered to the appeal authority for final determination. Completion of
determination will not exceed fourteen (14) days.
   D.   Absence Deemed Resignation: Any appeal authority member who is absent
from two (2) consecutive meetings without prior notice to the town clerk or
chairperson of the appeal authority shall be deemed to have resigned from the
appeal authority.
   E.   Meetings Of The Appeal Authority: All meetings of the appeal authority
shall be open to the public. The appeal authority shall keep minutes of all
meetings and proceedings. Minutes shall be filed with town clerk upon adoption
by the appeal authority.
   F.   Policies And Procedures: The appeal authority shall adopt rules of
policy and procedure consistent with this title and state law. The rules shall
be submitted to the town council for approval and may be altered, amended or
changed in the same manner.
   G.   Powers And Duties: The powers and duties of the appeal authority shall
be as follows:
      1.   Hear and decide appeals from zoning decisions applying this title;
and
      2.   Hear and decide variances from the terms of this title.
   H.   Appeals:
      1.   a. The applicant or any other person or entity adversely affected by
a decision administering or interpreting this title may appeal that decision
applying this title by alleging that there is error in any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by an official in the administration or
interpretation of this title.
         b.   Any person, including any officer, department, board or bureau of
the town affected by a decision administering or interpreting this title, or
affected by the grant or refusal of a building permit, or by any other
decisions of the land use authority in the administration or interpretation of
this title, may appeal such decision to the appeal authority. An appeal must be
made within thirty (30) days from the date of such decision by filing with the
town clerk a written notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. When an
appeal is taken from a decision of the land use authority, the town council
shall forthwith transmit to the appeal authority all papers, if any,
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
         c.   An appeal filed in accordance with this section stays all
proceedings in the appeal action, unless the officer from whom the appeal is
taken certifies to the appeal authority that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, the stay would in his/her opinion cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
restraining order which may be granted by the appeal authority or by the
district court on application and notice and on due cause shown.
         d.   The appeal authority shall fix the time for hearing any appeal
within fifteen (15) days of the date of filing such appeal with the town clerk
and shall give public notice thereof in accordance with the Utah open and
public meetings act, as well as notice to the parties in interest.
         e.   Proceedings and hearings before the appeal authority shall be had
pursuant to rules adopted by the appeal authority and in conformance with
general principles of due process. Any party in interest may appear at such
hearing in person, by agent, or by an attorney of his/her choice.
         f.   The person or entity making the appeal has the burden of proving
that an error has been made.
      2.   a. Only decisions applying this title may be appealed to the appeal
authority.
         b.   A person may not appeal, and the appeal authority may not
consider, any zoning ordinance amendments.
      3.   Appeals may not be used to waive or modify the terms or requirements
of this title.
   I.   Variance: Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the
requirements of this title as applied to a parcel of property that he/she owns,
leases or in which he/she holds some other beneficial interest may apply to the
appeal authority for a variance from the terms of this title.
   J.   Standards:
      1.   The appeal authority may grant a variance only if each of the
following conditions are met:
         a.   Literal enforcement of this title would cause an unreasonable
hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general
purpose of this title;
         b.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do
not generally apply to other properties in the same district;
         c.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same district;
         d.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and
will not be contrary to the public interest; and
         e.   The spirit of this title is observed and substantial justice
done.
      2.   In determining whether or not enforcement of this title would cause
unreasonable hardship under subsection J1 of this section, the appeal authority
may not find an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged hardship:
         a.   Is located on or associated with the property for which the
variance is sought; and
         b.   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
conditions that are general to the neighborhood.
      3.   In determining whether or not enforcement of this title would cause
unreasonable hardship under subsection J1 of this section, the appeal authority
may not find an unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-imposed or
economic.
      4.   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances
attached to the property under subsection J1 of this section, the appeal
authority may find that special circumstances exist only if the special
circumstances:
         a.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
         b.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in
the same district.
      5.   The applicant shall bear the burden of proving all of the conditions
justifying a variance have been met.
      6.   Variances run with the land.
      7.   The appeal authority and any other body may not grant use variances.
      8.   In granting a variance, the appeal authority may impose additional
requirements on the applicant that will:
         a.   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
         b.   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived
or modified.
   K.   Notice To Council Of Variance Or Building Permit Application: Before
any application for a variance or building permit is heard by the appeal
authority, the appeal authority shall give the town at least fifteen (15) days'
notice of any hearing to consider the application.
   L.   Zone Boundary Adjustment: Where a zone boundary line divides a lot in a
single ownership at the time of the passage of this chapter, the appeal
authority may permit a use authorized on either portion of such lot to extend
not more than fifty feet (50') into the other portion of the lot.
   M.   Appeal Authority Decision On Appeal: In exercising the above mentioned
powers, the appeal authority may affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination of the zoning official.
   N.   District Court Review Of Appeal Authority Decision:
      1.   Any person adversely affected by any decision of the appeal
authority may petition the district court for a review of the decision.
      2.   The petition is barred unless it is filed within thirty (30) days
after the appeal authority's decision is final. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
CHAPTER 5
ZONE DISTRICT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A.  RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Purpose
10-5A-2: Use Table
10-5A-3: Development Standards
10-5A-4: Performance Standards
10-5A-5: Parking Requirements
10-5A-6: Conditional Use Standards Of Review
10-5A-7: Sign Regulations
10-5A-8: Drinking Water Protection Overlay District
10-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create a rural residential zone which is
intended as a permanent residential district for those areas of the community
where it is desirable to maintain low residential densities. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-
6-2017)
10-5A-2:USE TABLE: If a use is not specifically designated, then it is
prohibited.
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Use Conditional Use Business License
Type                     Allowed Administrative  Conditional Use Business
                                 Conditional Use                 License
Accessory structure,                             X
occupied
Accessory structure,     X
unoccupied
Agriculture              X
Childcare for business:
  Center: 8 children or         X                               X
less
  Facility: 9 or more           X                               X
children
Church                   X
Dwelling, single-family  X
Farm animals/livestock   X
Fence, wildlife/large            X
animal
Group home:
  Assisted living       X                                       X
facility
  Disabled              X                                       X
  Elderly               X                                       X
Home occupation                  X                               X
Household pets           X
Intermittent commercial          X                               X
use
Manufactured home        X
Modular home             X
Outdoor recreation, park X
or playground
Preschool                        X
Public rights of way     X
Public services          X
Public utility stations,         X
except sewer
Schools, private or                              X               X
quasi-public
Schools, public          X
Signs
Small engine repair              X                               X
Stable, private          X
 
(Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5A-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot And Development Standards:
      1.   Lot:
         a.   Single-family:
 
Area                   Width    Setbacks                   Height  Sidewalks
                                Front: 25 feet
                                Side: 15 feet
1/2 acre 21,780 square 120 feet Rear: 25 feet              40 feet No
feet                            Accessory structure: 25
                                feet front/3 feet side and
                                back
 
         b.   Two-family:
 
Area               Width    Setbacks                     Height  Sidewalks
                            Front: 25 feet
1/2 acre                    Side: 15 feet
21,780 square feet 120 feet Rear: 25 feet                40 feet No
                            Accessory structure: 25 feet
                            front/3 feet side and back
 
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   A corner lot shall have two (2) fronts, two (2) sides and zero
rear.
         b.   Front is determined by location of streets.
         c.   An open front porch may encroach eight feet (8') into the front
yard setback.
         d.   Projections such as skylights, sills, cornices, chimneys, flues,
eaves and ornamental features may project into the yard up to two and one-half
feet (21/2').
   B.   Erection Of More Than One Principal Structure On Lot: More than one
structure housing a permitted principal use may be erected on a single lot;
provided, that yard setbacks and other requirements of this title shall be met
for each structure.
   C.   Structures To Have Access: All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to
a public street or with access to an approved private street, and shall be so
located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for fire protection.
   D.   Farm Animals/Livestock: Livestock, fowl and other animals (excluding
household pets) may, where permitted, be kept, bred and maintained with the
following restrictions:
      1.   Livestock: One animal for every five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures): One horse, cow, pig, llama, goat or
five (5) sheep. The offspring of livestock may be kept without consideration of
the space limitations until the animal is weaned or not to exceed six (6)
months. All feedlot properties are currently grandfathered with the current
permitted animals, fences, outbuildings, etc., as is. Any of the seasonal herds
that are moved in can be left for the purpose of wintering and weaning calves.
All new animals, fences and outbuildings will be subject to the land use
ordinance as of October 21, 2014.
      2.   Other Farm Animals: For each five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures): Five (5) rabbits or fowl, or other
similar small animals may be kept. One hundred (100) rabbits or fowl may be
kept in an enclosed structure with a roof and walls on all sides. The offspring
kept in the enclosed structure shall not exceed two hundred (200) and may be
kept for a period of six (6) months. One enclosed structure may be kept for
every five thousand (5,000) square feet of property (excluding occupied
structures).
   E.   Public Utility Stations: In any zone where residences are allowed,
public utility stations shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Each station shall be located on a lot not less than two thousand
(2,000) square feet in area.
      2.   Each station shall be located on a lot that has adequate access from
a street, alley or easement.
      3.   Each station shall be provided with a yard on each of the four (4)
sides of the building for structures not less than five feet (5') in width,
except that for such stations located on lots fronting on a street and abutted
by one or more residential lots, the front, side and rear yards should equal
those required for a single-family residence in the same district. (Ord. 04-
2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5A-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following
standards of performance:
   A.   Noise And Similar Features: All uses must be operated so that all
practical means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration or
other similar feature to the premises upon which they are located.
   B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas or for any
other purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5A-5: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Parking standards are listed in the following table:
 
Uses                                 Parking Requirement
Accessory apartment                  1 space
Accessory structure, occupied        1 space in addition to requirements for
                                     primary structure
Childcare facility/center            1 space per on duty employee and 1 space
                                     per each 6 children
Dwelling, single-family              2.5 spaces per dwelling unit (minimum 167
                                     square feet per space)
Public and quasi-public institution, The greater of:
church and school; public utility,   1 space per 5 seats; or 2 spaces per 3
municipal facility                   employees; or 1 space per 1,000 square
                                     feet
 
(Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5A-6: CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
The town shall not issue a conditional use permit unless the town council, in
the case of an administrative conditional use, and in all other conditional
uses, concludes that the application fully mitigates all identified adverse
impacts and complies with the following general standards applicable to all
conditional uses, as well as the specific standards for the use:
   A.   General Review Criteria: An application for a conditional use in the
zone must demonstrate:
      1.   The application complies with all applicable provisions of this
title, state law and federal law;
      2.   The structures associated with the use are compatible with
surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, density and circulation;
      3.   The use is not detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare;
      4.   The use is consistent with the town general plan as amended;
      5.   Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by the proposed use,
including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes, pedestrian access,
and capacity of the existing streets;
      6.   There is sufficient utility capacity;
      7.   There is sufficient emergency vehicle access;
      8.   The location and design of off street parking are in compliance with
off street parking standards;
      9.   A plan for fencing, screening and landscaping to separate the use
from adjoining uses and mitigate the potential for conflict in uses;
      10.   Exterior lighting complies with lighting standards of the zone;
      11.   Within and adjoining the site, impacts on the aquifer, for slope
retention and flood potential, have been fully mitigated and is appropriate to
the topography of the site.
   B.   Specific Review Criteria For Certain Conditional Uses: In addition to
the foregoing, the town council must evaluate the applicant's compliance with
each of the following criteria when considering whether to approve, deny or
conditionally approve an application for each of the following conditional
uses:
      1.   Accessory Structures, Occupied:
         a.   Proximity: The occupied accessory structure must be located no
less than six feet (6') from the main building;
         b.   Setbacks: The occupied accessory structure must be located in
either the rear or side yard with no less than a three foot (3') setback from
the rear and side lot lines, unless the occupied accessory structure is located
at the front yard setback of an adjacent corner lot, in which case, the side
yard setback to the nearest side lot line must be at least fifteen feet (15');
         c.   Height: The occupied accessory structure height may not exceed
twenty four feet (24') to the midpoint for a sloped roof and twenty feet (20')
to the cornice for a flat roof;
         d.   Building Area: The maximum area of an occupied accessory
structure is the larger of nine hundred (900) square feet or thirteen percent
(13%) of the lot area. No more than six hundred (600) square feet of the
occupied accessory structure shall be used for human occupancy;
         e.   Application: Each applicant for an occupied accessory structure
shall include:
            (1)   Site Plan: A site plan, which demonstrates one additional off
street parking space for the occupied accessory structure;
            (2)   Covenant Of Occupancy: The owner's covenant to occupy the
primary dwelling unit, which covenant shall run with the conditional use
permit.
      2.   Childcare Facility/Center: Each application for a childcare
facility, center or home occupation must include and comply with:
         a.   State License Application: Proof of application for state
childcare license;
         b.   State Law Compliance: Compliance with state, federal and local
law;
         c.   Design: A design that does not include a front yard playground;
         d.   Parking, Traffic Plan: A parking and traffic plan that adequately
mitigates the adverse impacts of increased traffic in the neighborhood;
         e.   Number Of Children: Childcare providers as a home occupation may
not exceed eight (8) children, twelve (12) years of age or younger, including
the provider's own children at any given time;
         f.   Infants: Childcare providers as a home occupation may not provide
services for more than two (2) infants under the age of two (2) at any given
time;
      3.   Intermittent Commercial Uses: The occasional use of dwellings,
community buildings, private clubs, lodges, social or recreational
establishments and/or their accessory buildings for commercial purposes may be
allowed upon receiving a conditional use permit; and provided, that there is
compliance with the provisions of this section. The following standards shall
apply to all intermittent commercial uses in addition to any conditions the
town council deems necessary and desirable to protect the public health, safety
and general welfare:
         a.   Display, Sales Of Merchandise: The display and sales of
merchandise should be contained primarily within a building;
         b.   Setback, Vision Clearance, Code Compliance: The building proposed
for the intermittent commercial use must comply with setback and clear vision
area requirements of this title, and with applicable building and fire codes;
         c.   Business License: A business license from the town is required to
conduct an intermittent commercial use;
         d.   Parking: Adequate parking is provided to serve the commercial use
that does not create a parking shortage for other existing uses on site;
         e.   Noise, Light: The use does not create noise, light or glare which
adversely impacts surrounding uses.
      4.   Small Engine Repair: Each applicant for a small engine repair shall
be reviewed as a home occupation using the review criteria outlined in
subsection B5 of this section.
      5.   Home Occupation: Each application for a business license for a home
occupation shall include the owner's agreement that the proposed use:
         a.   Outdoor Display, Storage, Parking: Shall not include outdoor
storage, outdoor display of merchandise, nor parking/storage of any vehicle in
excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds gross vehicle weight;
         b.   Signs: Shall not include identifying signs in excess of a six (6)
square foot nameplate, attached to the dwelling;
         c.   Employees: Is limited to the on site employment of immediate
family members who occupy the dwelling (this criterion is not intended to limit
the number of employees who are engaged in the business for the home occupation
but work off premises);
         d.   Residential Character: Shall not alter the residential character
or appearance of the dwelling or neighborhood;
         e.   Occupancy Maximum: Shall not occupy more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the main floor of the dwelling nor more than fifty percent (50%) of
the floor area of any garage or outbuilding in which the use is conducted;
         f.   Traffic: Shall not generate business related vehicular traffic in
excess of three (3) vehicles per hour;
         g.   Use Of Municipal Services: Shall not cause a demand for municipal
services in excess of that associated with normal residential use;
         h.   Building Code Compliance: Shall be enclosed within a structure in
complete conformity with international building codes as adopted by the town;
and
         i.   Prohibited Businesses: Is not a mortuary, animal hospital,
kennel, clinic, hospital, RV service, junkyard, auto repair service, public
stable or adult oriented business. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5A-7: SIGN REGULATIONS:
If a sign type is not specifically designated below, then it is prohibited.
Sign Type Allowed Maximum Area Maximum Height General Restrictions
Sign Type         Allowed Maximum Area  Maximum Height General Restrictions
                                                       Installation height to
                                                       be reviewed by staff for
Banner sign       X       3 ft. x 6 ft. 3 ft.          safety and visibility.
                                                       Max. installation height
                                                       allowed is 25 ft.
Construction      X       4 ft. x 8 ft. 4 ft.          Installation height 4
                                                       ft. max.
                                                       Low intensity light
Flat or wall sign X       39 sq. ft.    7 ft.          fixtures only. 1 sign
                                                       per building.
                                                       1 sign per 500 ft. of
                                                       frontage. Low intensity
                                                       light fixtures only.
Monument sign     X       39 sq. ft.    6 ft.          Installation height to
                                                       be reviewed by staff for
                                                       safety and visibility.
                                                       Max. height 25 ft.
Nameplate         X       2 ft. x 3 ft. 2 ft.           
Real estate       X       3 ft. x 6 ft. 3 ft.           
Illumination: Continuous illumination of signs is prohibited in this zone.
 
(Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5A-8: DRINKING WATER PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT:
A drinking water protection overlay district is hereby created within the rural
residential zone. This district will apply the regulations for land use
specified in title 8, chapter 3 of this code, in addition to the regulations of
the underlying rural residential zone, and cover the areas of land described
within this article. The overlay district will also be illustrated on the town
zoning map. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
ARTICLE B.  HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Purpose
10-5B-2: Use Table
10-5B-3: Development Standards
10-5B-4: Fencing
10-5B-5: Performance Standards
10-5B-6: Parking Requirements
10-5B-7: Conditional Use Standards Of Review
10-5B-8: Sign Regulations
10-5B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create a zone which provides an area in the
town for commercial uses that are oriented to vehicular travel and service
related uses. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5B-2:USE TABLE: If a use is not specifically designated, then it is
prohibited.
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Use Conditional Use Business License
Type                   Allowed Administrative  Conditional Use Business License
                               Conditional Use
Accessory structure,   X
unoccupied
Adult oriented                                 X               X
business
Apartment house                                X               X
Auto self-service      X                                       X
station
Auto service station   X                                       X
Auto, truck, RV sales  X                                       X
and rental
Automotive body/paint  X                       X               X
repair establishment
Automotive repair      X                                       X
establishment
Cinema, indoor         X                                       X
Convenience goods/     X                                       X
sales
Farm animals/livestock X
Fence, electric                X
Fence, razor                   X
Fireworks sales/stands         X                               X
General merchandise    X                                       X
sales and service
Heavy/farm equipment                           X               X
sales
Hotel                  X                                       X
Household pets         X
Intermittent                   X                               X
commercial use
Laundromat             X                                       X
Lumber sales/storage                           X               X
Motel                  X                                       X
Nursery                X                                       X
Office, professional   X                                       X
Personal services      X                                       X
Pet grooming           X                                       X
Public rights of way   X
Public services        X
Public utility                 X
stations, except sewer
Repair services, small X                                       X
appliances
Restaurant, cafe       X                                       X
Restaurant, fast food  X                                       X
Shopping center-                               X               X
community
Small engine repair    X                                       X
Surplus, secondhand    X                                       X
store
Telecommunications
facility, minor, 35            X                               X
feet in height
Temporary outdoor use          X                               X
Theater, concert hall  X                                       X
Warehouse storage                              X               X
units
 
(Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5B-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot And Development Standards:
 
Area          Width   Setbacks                              Height Sidewalks
                      Front: None
                      Side: None
7,500 sq. ft. 120 ft. Rear: None                            45 ft. Yes
                      Front, rear and side setbacks: 20 ft.
                      when bordering other zones
 
   B.   Erection Of More Than One Principal Structure On Lot: More than one
structure housing a permitted principal use may be erected on a single lot;
provided, that yard setbacks and other requirements of this title shall be met
for each structure.
   C.   Structures To Have Access: All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to
a public street or with access to an approved private street, and shall be so
located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for fire protection.
   D.   Farm Animals/Livestock: Livestock, fowl and other animals (excluding
household pets) may, where permitted, be kept, bred and maintained with the
following restrictions:
      1.   Livestock: One animal for every five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures): One horse, cow, pig, llama, goat or
five (5) sheep. All feedlot properties are currently grandfathered with the
current permitted animals, fences, outbuildings, etc., as is. Any of the
seasonal herds that are moved in can be left for the purpose of wintering and
weaning calves. All new animals, fences and outbuildings will be subject to the
land use ordinance as of October 21, 2014. The offspring of livestock may be
kept without consideration of the space limitations until the animal is weaned
or not to exceed six (6) months.
      2.   Other Farm Animals: For each five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures): Five (5) rabbits or fowl, or other
similar small animals may be kept. One hundred (100) rabbits or fowl may be
kept in an enclosed structure with a roof and walls on all sides. The offspring
kept in the enclosed structure shall not exceed two hundred (200) and may be
kept for a period of six (6) months. One enclosed structure may be kept for
every five thousand (5,000) square feet of property (excluding occupied
structures).
      3.   Animals Stabled Or Housed In Enclosed Areas: Any building, structure
or corral in which livestock is kept must be at least fifty feet (50') from any
street, dwelling or sidewalk. This does not include open pasturing on a
temporary or seasonal basis.
   E.   Public Utility Stations: Public utility stations shall meet the
following requirements:
      1.   Each station shall be located on a lot not less than two thousand
(2,000) square feet in area.
      2.   Each station shall be located on a lot that has adequate access from
a street, alley or easement.
      3.   Each station shall be provided with a yard on each of the four (4)
sides of the building for structures not less than five feet (5') in width,
except that for such stations located on lots fronting on a street and abutted
by one or more residential lots, the front, side and rear yards should equal
those required for a single-family residence in the same district. (Ord. 04-
2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5B-4: FENCING:
 
Clear
Vision      Setbacks   Height Wildlife      Electric      Razor         Corner Lot
Restriction
                       Front:
            Front: 3   None
            ft.        (8 ft.
            Exception: min.   Administrativ Administrativ Administrativ Administrativ
None        25 ft.     for    e conditional e conditional e conditional e conditional
            front for  razor) use           use           use           use
            electric   Side:
            fence      8 ft.
                       Rear:
                       8 ft.
 
(Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5B-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following
standards of performance:
   A.   Noise And Similar Features: All uses must be operated so that all
practical means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration or
other similar feature to the premises upon which they are located.
   B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas or for any
other purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5B-6: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Parking standards in table 6.1, "Parking", of this section also apply to the
following on site parking requirements:
   TABLE 6.1
   PARKING
Uses Parking Requirement
Uses                                 Parking Requirement
Adult oriented business              4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Auto, truck, RV sales and rental     3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                     1 space per service bay, plus 3 stalls per
Automotive repair establishment      1,000 square feet for office and retail
                                     areas
Hotel                                1 parking space for each 2 separate rooms,
                                     plus 1 space for each dwelling unit
Office, professional                 2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                     The greater of:
Public and quasi-public institution, 1 space per 5 seats; or 2 spaces per 3
public utility, municipal facility   employees; or 1 space per 1,000 square
                                     feet
Restaurant, cafe                     6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                     space
Restaurant, fast food                6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                     space
Retail sales establishment           3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Shopping center, community           6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                     space
Theater, concert hall                1 space per 4 seats
                                     2 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
Warehouse storage units              floor area for the first 10,000 square
                                     feet, plus 1/2 space per 2,000 square feet
                                     for the remaining space
 
(Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-5B-7: CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
The town shall not issue a conditional use permit unless the application fully
mitigates all identified adverse impacts and complies with the following
general standards applicable to all conditional uses, as well as the specific
standards for the use:
   A.   General Review Criteria: An applicant for a conditional use in the zone
must demonstrate:
      1.   The application complies with all applicable provisions of this
title, state law and federal law;
      2.   The structures associated with the use are compatible with
surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, density and circulation;
      3.   The use is not detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare;
      4.   The use is consistent with the town general plan, as amended;
      5.   Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by the proposed use,
including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes, pedestrian access and
capacity of the existing streets;
      6.   There is sufficient utility capacity;
      7.   There is sufficient emergency vehicle access;
      8.   The location and design of off street parking are in compliance with
off street parking standards;
      9.   A plan for fencing, screening and landscaping to separate the use
from adjoining uses and mitigate the potential for conflict in uses;
      10.   Within and adjoining the site, impacts on the aquifer for slope
retention and flood potential have been fully mitigated and is appropriate to
the topography of the site.
   B.   Specific Review Criteria For Certain Conditional Uses: In addition to
the foregoing, the town council must evaluate the applicant's compliance with
each of the following criteria when considering whether to approve, deny or
conditionally approve an application for each of the following conditional
uses:
      1.   Adult Oriented Businesses: The purpose and objective of this
subsection is to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
concentration of adult oriented businesses or their location in areas
deleterious to the health, safety and welfare of the town, and to prevent
inappropriate exposure of such businesses to the community. This subsection
regulates the place of the operation of sexually oriented businesses,
consistent with the United States and Utah state constitutions.
         a.   No adult oriented business may be located within one thousand
feet (1,000') of any:
            (1)   School, daycare facility, cemetery, public park, library or
religious institution;
            (2)   Residential zoning boundary;
            (3)   Other adult oriented business.
         b.   For the purposes of this subsection, distance is measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
closest exterior wall of the structure in which the adult oriented business is
located and:
            (1)   The closest exterior wall of another adult oriented business;
            (2)   The closest property line of any school, daycare facility,
public park, library, cemetery or religious institution; and
            (3)   The nearest property line of any residential zone.
      2.   Intermittent Commercial Uses: The occasional use of dwellings,
community buildings, private clubs, lodges, social or recreational
establishments and/or their accessory buildings for commercial purposes may be
allowed upon receiving a conditional use permit; and provided, that there is
compliance with the provisions of this subsection. The following provisions
shall apply to all intermittent commercial uses in addition to any conditions
the town council deems necessary and desirable to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare:
         a.   The display and sales of merchandise should be contained
primarily within a building;
         b.   The building proposed for the intermittent commercial use must
comply with setback and clear vision area requirements of this title and with
applicable building and fire codes;
         c.   A business license from the town is required to conduct an
intermittent commercial use;
         d.   Adequate parking is provided to serve the commercial use that
does not create a parking shortage for other existing uses on site;
         e.   The use does not cause noise, light or glare which adversely
impacts surrounding uses.
      3.   Temporary Outdoor Use: Temporary vendors must:
         a.   Notify the town of the date, place and duration of their intended
use, along with permission in writing from the property owner or event
organizer;
         b.   Last no longer than seventy two (72) hours.
      4.   Minor Telecommunications Facility 1 :
         a.   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection is to establish general
requirements for the siting of wireless telecommunications facilities. The
intent is to:
            (1)   Encourage the location of facilities in nonresidential areas;
            (2)   Minimize the total number of monopole facilities throughout
the community;
            (3)   Encourage the joint use of new and existing communication
sites;
            (4)   Encourage providers of facilities to locate them where the
adverse impact on the community is minimal;
            (5)   Encourage providers of facilities to use innovative design to
minimize adverse visual impact; and
            (6)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications
services to provide each service to the community quickly, effectively and
efficiently.
         b.   Applicability: The requirements of this subsection apply to both
commercial and private wireless telecommunications services such as "cellular"
or "PCS" (personal communications services) communications and paging systems.
All facilities shall comply with the following regulations and all other
ordinances of the town and any pertinent regulations of the federal
communications commission and the federal aviation administration.
         c.   Facility Types And Standards: Wireless telecommunications
facilities are characterized by the type and location of the antenna structure.
There are four (4) general types of antenna structures: wall mounted; roof
mounted; monopoles; and lattice towers. Standards for the installation of each
type of antenna are as follows:
            (1)   Wall Mounted Antenna:
   (A) Wall mounted antennas shall not extend above the wall line of the
building or structure or extend more than four feet (4') horizontally from the
face of the building or structure.
   (B) Antennas, equipment and the supporting structure shall be painted to
match the color of the building or structure or the background against which
they are most commonly seen. Antennas and the supporting structures on building
should be architecturally compatible with the building and the supporting
structures on the building should be architecturally compatible with the
building.
   (C) Antennas mounted directly on existing parapet walls, penthouses or
mechanical equipment rooms, with no portion of the antenna extending above the
roofline of such structures, shall be considered a wall mounted antenna.
   (D) Stealth wall mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be allowed to
vary from the provisions of this subsection of the conditional use process.
            (2)   Roof Mounted Antenna:
   (A) Roof mounted antennas shall be allowed on top of existing penthouses or
mechanical equipment rooms, provided the antennas and antenna mounting
structures shall not extend more than eight feet (8') above the existing
roofline of the penthouse or mechanical equipment room.
   (B) For antennas not mounted on a penthouse or mechanical equipment room and
on a flat roof, the antennas shall be mounted at least five feet (5') from the
exterior wall or parapet wall of the building or structure and shall be
measured from the top of the antenna to the roofline of the building, structure
or parapet. The height of the antenna shall be equal to the distance the
antenna is set back from the exterior wall or parapet wall.
   (C) Roof mounted antennas on a pitched roof shall be allowed, provided the
antennas and antenna support structures do not extend higher than the peak of
the roof measured by a horizontal line from the peak extending over the roof.
   (D) Stealth and roof mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be allowed to
vary from the provisions of this part as determined by the town council as part
of the conditional use.
            (3)   Monopole: The height limit for monopole antennas is thirty
five feet (35').
   (A) In residential zones, the monopole antennas will only be allowed in
conjunction with an existing public or quasi-public use, including, but not
limited to, churches, schools, utilities and parks.
   (B) No monopole antennas will be allowed in the front yard setback of any
lot.
   (C) Stealth monopole facilities are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary
from the provisions of this subsection as determined by the town council as
part of the conditional use.
            (4)   Lattice Towers: Lattice towers are not allowed.
         d.   Color/Design: Monopoles, antennas and any associated buildings or
equipment shall be painted to blend with the surroundings that are most
commonly seen. The color shall be determined on a case by case basis by the
town council as part of the conditional use process. Within six (6) months
after the facility has been constructed, the town council may require the color
be changed if it is determined that the original color does not blend well with
the surroundings.
         e.   Additional Requirements: The following shall be considered by the
town council as part of the conditional use process:
            (1)   Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and
mass of the existing buildings and utility structures;
            (2)   Location of the antenna on other existing structures in the
same vicinity, such as other monopole antennas, buildings, water towers,
utility poles, athletic fields, lights, parking lot lights, etc., where
possible, without significantly impacting antenna transmission or reception;
            (3)   Location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation,
topography, including ridge lines, and buildings to obtain the best visual
screening;
            (4)   Spacing between monopole antennas which create detrimental
impacts to adjoining properties;
            (5)   Installation of, but not limited to, curb, gutter, sidewalk,
landscaping and fencing.
         f.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings to antenna structures
must comply with the required setback, height and landscaping requirements of
the zoning district in which they are located. All utility lines on the lot
leading to the accessory building and antenna structure shall be underground.
         g.   Nonmaintained Or Abandoned Facilities: The town council may
require each nonmaintained or abandoned telecommunications facility to be
removed from the building or premises when such a facility has not been
repaired or put into use by the owner or agent within twelve (12) months after
notice of nonmaintenance or abandonment is given to the owner or agent. The
applicant shall post a site specific bond when a permit is issued to guarantee
removal of the facility and site restoration. The bond type and amount shall be
determined upon review by the town council on a case by case basis. No bond
shall be required for roof or wall mounted facilities.
         h.   Building Permit Required: A building permit is required for all
wireless telecommunication facilities, including, but not limited to, monopole
antennas, and roof and wall mounted antennas.
         i.   Temporary Drive Test: Companies wishing to perform drive tests
shall submit notice to the town council stating the location and the date of
the proposed test. Antennas in use for the drive tests shall be limited to
testing functions only and shall not be used for telecommunications services to
customers. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 8 of this title.
10-5B-8:SIGN REGULATIONS: If a sign type is not specifically designated below,
then it is prohibited.
Sign Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Max. Area Max. Height General
                                                                   Restrictions
Sign Type    Allowed Administrative Conditional Max. Area  Max.   General
                                                           Height Restrictions
                                                                  Max.
                                                3 ft. x 6         installation
Banner signs X                                  ft.        3 ft.  height
                                                                  allowed is
                                                                  25 ft.
                                                                  Max.
                                                500 sq.           installation
Billboards                          X           ft.        25 ft. height
                                                                  allowed is
                                                                  25 ft.
                                                4 ft. x 8         Installation
Construction X                                  ft.               height 4 ft.
                                                                  max.
                                                                  Low
                                                                  intensity
Flat or wall                                                      light
sign         X                                  39 sq. ft. 7 ft.  fixtures
                                                                  only. 1 sign
                                                                  per
                                                                  building.
                                                                  1 sign per
                                                                  500 ft. of
                                                                  frontage.
                                                                  Low
Monument                                                          intensity
sign         X                                  39 sq. ft. 6 ft.  lights only.
                                                                  Max.
                                                                  installation
                                                                  height
                                                                  allowed is
                                                                  25 ft.
Nameplate    X                                  2 ft. x 3  2 ft.   
                                                ft.
Real estate  X                                  3 ft. x 6  3 ft.   
                                                ft.
Service      X                                                     
station
                                                                  Allowed for
Special              X                                            45
event sign                                                        consecutive
                                                                  days only.
 
(Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
CHAPTER 6
NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Determination Of Nonconforming Status
10-6-3: Authority To Continue
10-6-4: Abandonment Or Loss Of Nonconforming Use
10-6-5: Moving, Enlarging Or Altering Nonconforming Uses
10-6-6: Noncomplying Structures
10-6-7: Ordinary Repair And Maintenance And Structural Safety
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter regulates the continued existence of nonconforming uses and
noncomplying structures, as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title. While nonconforming uses, noncomplying structures and
improvements may continue, this chapter is intended to limit enlargement,
alteration, restoration or replacement which would increase the discrepancy
between existing conditions and the development standards prescribed by this
title. In addition, applications are reviewed to ensure that they are reducing
the degree of nonconformity and improving the physical appearance of the
structure and site through such measures as landscaping, building design, or
the improved function of the use in relation to other uses. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-
2017)
10-6-2: DETERMINATION OF NONCONFORMING STATUS:
   A.   Burden On Owner To Establish Legality: The owner bears the burden of
establishing that any nonconforming use or noncomplying structure lawfully
exists.
   B.   Determination Of Status: The planning and zoning commission shall hear
and make recommendation to the town council regarding the nonconforming status.
The town council shall determine the nonconforming or noncomplying status of
properties. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-6-3: AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE:
   A.   Nonconforming Use: A lawful nonconforming use may continue subject to
the standards and limitations of this chapter.
   B.   Noncomplying Structure: A noncomplying structure that was lawfully
constructed prior to a contrary change in this title, may be used and
maintained, subject to the standards and limitations of this chapter. (Ord. 04-
2017, 4-6-2017)
10-6-4: ABANDONMENT OR LOSS OF NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   Abandonment Of Nonconforming Use: A nonconforming use that is
discontinued for a continuous period of six (6) months is presumed abandoned
and shall not thereafter be reestablished or resumed. Any subsequent use of the
building, structure or land must conform to the regulations for the zoning
district in which it is located.
   B.   Rebuttable Presumption Of Abandonment: The presumption of abandonment
may be rebutted upon showing that during such period:
      1.   Any period of discontinued use was caused by governmental actions or
an act of God without any contributing fault by the owner and the owner did not
intend to discontinue the use; or
      2.   The owner can demonstrate no abandonment of the use. (Ord. 04-2017,
4-6-2017)
10-6-5: MOVING, ENLARGING OR ALTERING NONCONFORMING USES:
No nonconforming use may be moved, enlarged, altered or occupy additional land,
except as provided in this section:
   A.   Enlargement: A nonconforming use may not be enlarged, expanded or
extended to occupy all or a part of another structure or site that it did not
occupy on the date on which the use became nonconforming. A nonconforming use
may be extended through the same building or structure, provided no structural
alteration of the building or structure is proposed or made for the purpose of
the extension and the parking demand is not increased.
   B.   Exterior, Interior Remodeling Or Improvements To Building, Structure:
Exterior or interior remodeling or improvements to a structure containing a
nonconforming use shall be allowed, provided there is no expansion of the area
of the nonconforming use.
   C.   Relocation Of Building Or Structure: A building or structure containing
a nonconforming use may not be moved unless the use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations of the zoning district into which the building or structure is
moved.
   D.   Change In Nonconforming Use To Another Nonconforming Use Or Conforming
Use: Except as provided in section
10-6-6 of this chapter, no nonconforming use may be changed to another
nonconforming use. Whenever any nonconforming use is changed to a conforming
use, such use shall not later be changed to any nonconforming use.
      1.   Application: Application for any nonconforming use must be made upon
forms provided by the town clerk. Upon filing of a complete application, the
town shall post the property indicating that an application for modification of
a nonconforming use has been filed and that more detailed information may be
obtained from the town.
      2.   Notification Of Abutting Property Owners: Notice shall be provided
pursuant to the notice requirements of section
10-3-5 of this title.
      3.   Town Council Meeting: Within thirty (30) working days of the receipt
of a complete application, and after giving public notice, the town council
shall hold a public meeting on the nonconforming use application. The town
council shall either grant the application in whole or in part, with or without
modifications or conditions, or deny the application. The town council decision
shall be made pursuant to criteria provided in subsection D4 of this section.
      4.   Criteria: The town council shall approve an application to change a
nonconforming use to another nonconforming use if the applicant proves the
following criteria:
         a.   All reasonable measures will be undertaken to alleviate or reduce
the incompatibility or adverse effects of the nonconforming use or building
upon abutting properties or in the neighborhood;
         b.   All changes, additions or expansions comply with all current
laws, except as to use;
         c.   The new use, if applicable, will provide for enclosed storage of
necessary equipment, materials and refuse, rather than create a need for
additional outside storage; and
         d.   The new use does not increase the parking requirement; or if
there is an increase, the site plan meets the parking requirement and the town
council finds that adjoining properties and the neighborhood will not be
adversely impacted by the increased parking demand. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-6-6: NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES:
No noncomplying structure may be moved, enlarged or altered, except in the
manner provided in this chapter or unless required by law.
   A.   Repair, Maintenance, Alteration And Enlargement: Any noncomplying
structure may be repaired, maintained, altered or enlarged; provided, that such
repair, maintenance, alteration or enlargement shall neither create any new
noncompliance nor shall increase the degree of the existing noncompliance of
all or any part if such structure.
   B.   Moving: A noncomplying structure shall not be moved in whole or in
part, for any distance whatsoever, to any other location on the same or any
other lot unless the entire structure shall thereafter conform to the
regulations of the zone in which it will be located. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-6-7: ORDINARY REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE AND STRUCTURAL SAFETY:
The owner may complete normal maintenance and incidental repair on a complying
structure that contains a nonconforming use or on a noncomplying structure.
This chapter shall not be construed to authorize any violations of law nor to
prevent the strengthening or restoration to a safe condition of a structure in
accordance with an order of the building official who declares such structure
to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe condition. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-
6-2017)
CHAPTER 7
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Conformance Required
10-7-2: Exempt Signs
10-7-3: Traffic Hazards
10-7-4: Signs Over Public Property
10-7-1: CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
Signs will conform with requirements for individual zones and applicable state
law. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-7-2: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following signs are not regulated by this title:
   A.   Signs of a governmental nature for the control of traffic and other
regulatory purposes, such as street signs, danger signs, railroad crossing
signs and signs of public service companies indicating danger and aids to
service or safety;
   B.   Signs which are associated with public and quasi-public organization
functions which are clearly of a temporary nature;
   C.   Interior signs;
   D.   Flags, emblems or insignias of any nation or political subdivision;
   E.   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only property
numbers, post box numbers or names of occupants of premises;
   F.   Legal notices, identification information or directional signs erected
by governmental bodies;
   G.   Commemorative plaques of recognized historical agencies, or
identification emblems or symbols of religious orders; provided, that no such
plaque, symbol or identification emblem exceeds three (3) square feet in area,
and such that the plaque, symbol or emblem be placed flat against a building;
and
   H.   Existing signage, which has been previously approved, shall not be
required to comply with this chapter insofar as the initial installation is
concerned. All other requirements are in force. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-7-3: TRAFFIC HAZARDS:
   A.   Signs or other advertising structures shall not be erected at the
intersection of any streets or driveways in such manner as to obstruct free and
clear vision; or at any location where by reason of the position, shape or
color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device, or make use of words, phrases,
symbols or characters in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse
vehicle operators.
   B.   At intersecting streets and within the clear view area, there shall be
no signs allowed, unless a sign is less than three feet (3') in height as
measured from the average grade of the intersecting streets.
   C.   For signs over pedestrianways, the clearance between the ground and the
bottom of any projecting or ground sign shall not be less than eight feet (8').
   D.   For signs over driveways for vehicular traffic, the minimum clearance
shall be fourteen feet (14').
   E.   For signs more than three feet (3') in height and having less than an
eight foot (8') clearance, the front setback shall be the same as for buildings
in that zoning district. In no case shall the front setback be less than
eighteen inches (18") from the front property line as measured from the leading
edge of the sign. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-7-4: SIGNS OVER PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No sign shall be located on publicly owned land or inside street rights of way
except signs required and erected by permission of an authorized public agency.
This restriction shall include, but not be limited to, handbills, posters,
advertisements or notices that are fastened, placed, posted, painted or
attached in any way upon any curbstone, lamp post, telephone pole, electric
light or power pole, hydrant, bridge, tree, rock, sidewalk or street. No
projecting sign attached to a building shall project over public property more
than four feet (4') and in no case be closer than four feet (4') to curb line
or edge of street, whichever is more restrictive. Ground signs must be set back
at least eighteen inches (18") from any public right of way. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-
6-2017)
CHAPTER 8
TELECOMMUNICATIONS 1
SECTION:
10-8-1: Applicability
10-8-2: Signage
10-8-3: Abandonment
10-8-4: Removal By Town
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 10-5B-7B4 of this title.
10-8-1: APPLICABILITY:
All telecommunications regulations apply to both commercial and private low
power radio services and facilities, such as cellular or PCS communications and
paging systems. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-8-2: SIGNAGE:
Signs shall only be permitted if they are related to the health and safety of
the general public. All proposed signs shall be submitted with the
telecommunications facility application and are subject to review by the
planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-8-3: ABANDONMENT:
The applicant, or applicant's successor and/or assign, shall be responsible for
the removal of unused telecommunications facilities within twelve (12) months
of abandonment of use. If such tower is not removed by the property owner, then
the town may employ all legal measures, including as necessary, obtaining
authorization from a court of competent jurisdiction to remove the tower, and
after removal may place a lien on the subject property for all direct and
indirect costs incurred in dismantling and disposal of the tower, including
court costs and reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-8-4: REMOVAL BY TOWN:
The building official is empowered to require an unmaintained or abandoned low
power radio services antenna to be removed from the building or premises when
that antenna has not been repaired or put into use by the owner, the person
having control, or the person receiving the benefit of the structure within
thirty (30) calendar days after notice is given to the owner, the person having
control or the person receiving the benefit of the structure. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-
6-2017)
CHAPTER 9
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Process
10-9-3: Simple Lot Subdivisions
10-9-4: Minor Subdivisions
10-9-5: Exemptions From Plat Necessity
10-9-6: Subdivisions Of Ten Or More Lots
10-9-7: Lot Line Adjustments
10-9-8: Vacation Or Amendment Of Plats
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Protect and provide for the public health, safety and general welfare
of the town.
   B.   Guide the future growth and development of the town, in accordance with
the general plan.
   C.   Encourage the orderly and beneficial development of land within the
municipality.
   D.   Protect the integrity of buildings, land and improvements, and to
minimize the conflicts among the uses of land and buildings.
   E.   Provide a beneficial relationship between the uses of land, buildings,
traffic circulation and the proper location and width of streets and building
setbacks.
   F.   Establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions, condominium plats, plat amendments and lot line adjustments, in
order to further the orderly layout and use of land; and to ensure proper legal
descriptions and recording of subdivided land.
   G.   Ensure that public facilities are available and will have a sufficient
capacity to serve the proposed subdivision.
   H.   Encourage the wise use and management of natural resources in order to
preserve the integrity, stability and aesthetics of the community.
   I.   Continue the rural development and variety of structural design within
residential zones.
   J.   Provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout of
the land, while preserving the density of land as established in the zoning and
subdivision codes of the town. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-9-2: PROCESS:
This chapter adopts and incorporates the definitions of terms found in chapter
2 of this title and distinguishes between several processes of subdivision and
land division, including all subdivisions, plat amendments, plat vacations and
lot line adjustments. This process involves:
   A.   Initial Contact: An applicant for a subdivision, condominium plat, plat
amendment, lot line adjustment or plat vacation shall contact the town council
to discuss the scope and purpose of the application and the requirements of
this chapter. Application fees will be paid at this time. Fees will be set by
resolution by the town council. For minor subdivisions, the town council will
hold a public hearing to allow input from the residents of the town.
   B.   Preliminary Review: The applicant shall provide the town council
drawings in sufficient detail to allow review of the proposal for compliance
with this section and to direct the applicant to the appropriate process.
   C.   Administrative Review: The town council shall review each complete
proposal and may seek the advice and input of other town staff, municipal
departments, the planning and zoning commission and/or utility providers. The
administrative review shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Does the application meet the requirements of this code?
      2.   Are all the lots suitable for building?
      3.   Are hazardous areas or conditions present, and if so, have the
conditions been abated?
      4.   Do all lots border public streets?
      5.   Is the subdivision consistent with the general plan?
      6.   Will the development enhance the character and aesthetics of the
community?
      7.   Are water, electrical and other resources sufficient for the
additional development?
      8.   Have the state health department requirements for septic systems
been met?
      9.   Are there any current easements which conflict with the development?
      10.   Will the development encroach on drinking water protection areas?
      11.   Is the development in the floodplain?
The planning and zoning commission will review the proposed subdivision before
the next meeting of the town council and provide a recommendation based on the
provisions of current general plan, zoning and subdivision ordinances. The
planning and zoning commission meeting will be a public hearing.
   D.   Town Council Public Meeting: The town council shall hold a public
meeting based on the planning and zoning commission recommendation on the
application, and shall approve, deny or approve with conditions. Financial
guarantees by the applicant for the subdivision to ensure completion the
subdivision shall be in place before the final approval shall be given by the
town council.
   E.   Definition Of Property Lines For Utility Requirements: For the purposes
of this chapter only, the following definitions shall apply:
      1.   The following definition shall apply for simple and minor
subdivisions: For purposes of water and electrical connections, the "property
line" is defined as that property line of a lot or parcel of land that fronts
on a dedicated street where water and electrical are existing in the street.
Water and electrical will be considered at the property line in a simple and
minor subdivision if they are within one hundred twenty feet (120') of the
property on either side of the street. No connection fees will be collected
until such time as a building permit is issued to the property owner. The
builder/property owner will bear the entire cost of installing the water line
from the main line. This cost is in addition to the standard town water hookup
fee. Electricity continues to be required to be brought to the deeded property
line of each lot or parcel. More than one lot or parcel can be serviced from
one pole based on requirements as established by the electric contractor. A
drop line must be at each lot, but a single line can feed more than one lot.
      2.   The following shall apply for subdivisions of four (4) to ten (10)
lots: All town required utilities, to include electric and water, shall be
required to be stubbed to each lot where meter placement would occur. No
connection fees will be collected until such time as the service will be used.
(Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-9-3: SIMPLE LOT SUBDIVISIONS:
Subject to section
10-9-5 of this chapter, an applicant may subdivide property by metes and bounds
into two (2) or three (3) lots or parcels without the necessity of recording a
plat; provided, that all proposed lots or parcels front a dedicated public
street and comply with the applicable zone standards. This process should be
completed in the following manner:
   A.   Application: An applicant shall submit an application to the town
council for a simple lot subdivision that includes, at a minimum:
      1.   The name of applicant or authorized agent and contact information;
      2.   A property address and parcel number;
      3.   The address for the subdivision;
      4.   The metes and bounds description of the property proposed to be
split;
      5.   Any other information that may be requested by the town council;
      6.   The subdivision name.
   B.   Sidewalks And Other Design Standards: The applicant shall not initially
be required to install sidewalks for a simple lot subdivision. All other design
standards set forth in chapter 10 of this title are not applicable to a simple
lot subdivision, unless specifically required by the town council.
   C.   Septic System Approval: The applicant may need approval from the public
health department on simple lot subdivisions if septic systems are to be
installed. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-9-4: MINOR SUBDIVISIONS:
An applicant may subdivide property by metes and bounds into less than ten (10)
lots or parcels in the following manner:
   A.   Application: An applicant shall submit an application to the town
council for a minor subdivision that includes, at a minimum:
      1.   The name of applicant and/or authorized agent and contact
information;
      2.   A property address and parcel number;
      3.   The address for the subdivision; and
      4.   The subdivision name.
   B.   Plat; Design Standards: The requirement for a plat or certain design
standards set forth in chapter 10 of this title may be waived by the town
council in a public meeting if all proposed lots front a dedicated public
street.
   C.   Infrastructure Requirements: The applicant shall meet with the town
council to determine utility hookups to each proposed lot or parcel and other
infrastructure requirements for the minor subdivision.
   D.   Septic System Approval: The applicant may need approval from the public
health department on minor subdivisions for properties that require septic
systems.
   E.   Costs Borne By Subdivider: The subdivider will bear all costs
associated with the development of the property, including all costs expended
by the town in connection with the development. The town council will determine
what expenditures may be needed in connection with the development. Costs may
include, but will not be limited to:
      1.   The cost of hiring an engineer to provide his services to the town.
      2.   The cost of studies made for the town, such as impact fee studies,
studies concerning the adequacy of utilities, etc.
      3.   The cost of inspectors.
   F.   Notice: The applicant for division of property into more than three (3)
lots shall provide the town with two (2) sets of typewritten address labels,
together with sufficient funds to cover related postage costs, to all property
owners within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed subdivision. Such
notice shall be mailed at least seven (7) days prior to the planning and zoning
commission consideration of the preliminary plat. Notice of subdivisions for
multi-residential development shall be provided to affected entities as
required under this title. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-9-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PLAT NECESSITY:
   A.   Conditions: An applicant may submit to the county recorder's office for
recording a document that subdivides property by metes and bounds into less
than ten (10) lots, without the necessity of recording a plat, if:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission has given the town council its
recommendation, whether favorable or not; and
      2.   The document contains a certificate or written approval from the
town council.
   B.   Approval: By indicating its approval on the document subdividing the
property into less than ten (10) lots, the town council certifies that:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission has given its recommendation to
the town council;
      2.   The subdivision is not traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed
street as shown in the general plan and does not require the dedication of any
land for street or other public purposes; and
      3.   If the subdivision is located in a zoned area, each lot in the
subdivision meets the frontage, width and area requirements of this title or
has been granted a variance from those requirements by the appeal authority.
   C.   Certificate Of Approval: Documents recorded in the county recorder's
office that divide property by metes and bounds description do not create a
subdivision allowed hereunder unless the certificate of written approval
required by subsection A of this section is attached to the document.
   D.   Absence Of Certificate: The absence of the certificate or written
approval from the town council does not affect the validity of the recorded
document.
   E.   Corrections: A document which does not meet the requirements of this
section may be corrected to comply with this section by recording an affidavit
to which the required certificate or written approval is attached.
   F.   Terms Defined: For purposes of this section:
      1.   Document includes, but is not limited to, a deed or other written
conveyance that transfers the property creating a simple lot or minor
subdivision;
      2.   Certificate or written approval means a stamp or other writing on or
attached to the document indicating that the subdivision has been approved by
the town council.
   G.   Form Of Approval: The certificate or written approval required herein
shall be in substantially the following form:
The Meadow Town council hereby represents and acknowledges that the property
described herein is part of a simple lot/minor subdivision, consisting of less
than ten (10) lots, and as such, negates the necessity of recording a
subdivision plat. The Meadow Town council certifies that the Meadow Town
planning and zoning commission has given its recommendation to the town
council; that the subdivision is not traversed by the mapped lines of a
proposed street as shown in the general plan and does not require the
dedication of any land for street or other public purposes; and that each lot
in the subdivision meets the frontage, width and area requirement of the Meadow
Town zoning ordinance or has been granted a variance from those requirements by
the appeal authority.
      (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-9-6: SUBDIVISIONS OF TEN OR MORE LOTS:
As stated in the general plan, the town would like to remain classified as a
town, and not grow to the size where it would be classified as a city. To
support this limited growth philosophy, subdivisions of more than ten (10) lots
will not be allowed. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-9-7: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
Applicants, as the owners of record of adjacent parcels that are described by
either a metes and bounds description or a recorded plat, may exchange title to
portions of the parcels.
   A.   Conditions: The town council may approve an exchange of title if the
following conditions are met:
      1.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the exchange of
title;
      2.   The adjustment does not result in violations of applicable zoning
requirements.
   B.   Notice Of Approval Recorded: If an exchange of title is approved, a
notice of approval shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder by
the town council. This notice must:
      1.   Be executed by each owner included in the exchange and the town
council;
      2.   Contain an acknowledgment for each party executing the notice;
      3.   Recite the descriptions of both the original parcels and the parcels
created by the exchange of title.
   C.   Approval Not Conveyance Of Title: A notice of approval does not act as
a conveyance of title to real property and is not required for the recording of
a document purporting to convey title to real property. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-
2017)
10-9-8: VACATION OR AMENDMENT OF PLATS:
The town council by ordinance may, with or without a petition, consider any
proposed vacation, alteration or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion
of a subdivision plat, or any street, lot or alley contained in a subdivision.
The procedure shall be as provided in Utah Code Annotated sections 10-9a-608
through 10-9a-609.5. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
CHAPTER 10
GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Governing Provisions
10-10-2: Lot Standards
10-10-3: Development Design And Layout
10-10-4: Buildings
10-10-5: Roads; Layout And Geometry
10-10-6: Private Road Maintenance
10-10-7: Street Numbers
10-10-8: Utilities
10-10-9: Completion Of On And Off Site Improvements Prior To Approval Of Plats
Or Issuance Of Certificates Of Occupancy
10-10-10: Security For Completion
10-10-11: Amount Of Security
10-10-12: Term Of Security; Proof Of State License
10-10-13: Form Of Security
10-10-14: Payment Of Interest
10-10-15: Release Of Funds
10-10-16: Modification Of Plans
10-10-17: Phased Projects
10-10-1: GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. The
current edition of the American Public Works Association (APWA) manual of
standard specifications will also be used by the town council as a guide for
construction in the town. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-2: LOT STANDARDS:
   A.   Conformance: The minimum area and dimensions of all lots shall conform
to the requirements of the zone district in which the lot is located.
   B.   Access: All lots or parcels created by a subdivision shall have direct
access with frontage on a dedicated street improved to standards hereinafter
required. Private streets shall be permitted only as recommended by the town
council. Land designated as public right of way shall be separate and distinct
from lots adjoining such right of way and shall not be included in the area of
such lots.
   C.   Lot Creation: All subdivisions shall result in the creation of lots
that are developable and capable of being built upon. A subdivision shall not
create lots and no building permit shall be issued for any lots that would make
building or access impractical due to size, shape, steepness of terrain,
location of watercourses, problems of sewerage or driveway grades, or other
physical conditions, except where such lots are suitable and dedicated for a
common open space, private utility or public purpose as determined by the town
council.
   D.   Side Lines: The side lines of all lots, so far as possible, shall be at
right angles to each street on which the lot faces, or approximately radial to
the center of curvatures. Exceptions may be made to this requirement where
considerations for solar orientation are involved.
   E.   Corner Lots: Corner lots for residential use shall be planned wider
than interior lots in order to permit conformance with the required front
setback requirements of both streets.
   F.   Boundary Line: A town boundary line shall not divide a lot. Each such
boundary line shall be made on a lot line.
   G.   Lot Numbers: Lot numbers shall begin with the number "1" and shall
continue consecutively through the subdivision with no omissions or
duplications. No block designations shall be used.
   H.   One Dwelling Permitted: Except as specifically authorized by this
title, not more than one dwelling unit shall occupy any one lot.
   I.   Required Area: No area needed to meet the minimum width, yard area,
parking or other requirements of this title for a lot or building may be sold
or leased away from such lot or building for the purpose of installing any kind
of structure.
   J.   Cutting Off Portions: No portion of a lot may be cut off from another
portion of a lot that has been created through a subdivision action. (Ord. 04-
2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-3: DEVELOPMENT DESIGN AND LAYOUT:
   A.   Hazardous Site Conditions: The design of the development shall avoid or
fully mitigate hazardous site conditions (unstable slopes, geologic faults or
flood potential, etc.).
   B.   Drainage: Drainage from individual lots shall be coordinated with the
general storm drainage pattern for the area and shall avoid conveying to
adjacent lots runoff flows higher than historic patterns. Post development
flows shall be based on a 10-year twenty four (24) hour design storm if water
is to be detained on site and released at a rate not exceeding the historic
flow.
   C.   Recreation Facilities: Any recreation facilities should be located
central to all residents of the development.
   D.   Access: All lots shall have reasonable access to open space, trails,
park land or recreation facilities that are set aside for either development
use or use by the general public.
   E.   Trail, Open Space Access: Access to public trails and open space
abutting the property shall be provided.
   F.   Utility Extensions: Utility extensions required for future development
shall be provided. All utility extensions shall be designed in conformance with
the applicable town utility system master plan. Extensions of utility systems
that do not have a completed master plan shall be reviewed for size and
capacity by a town appointed engineer.
   G.   Maintenance Of Common Facilities: Maintenance of common facilities must
be accomplished through either covenants and a homeowners' association, a
separate maintenance agreement, or some other perpetual agreement.
   H.   Layout Of Lots: The layout of lots should provide desirable settings
for structures by making use of natural contours, maintaining views, affording
privacy, and protection from wind, noise and vehicular traffic.
   I.   Development Design: Development design should provide for efficiency in
the installation and provision of all public and private utilities and
services.
   J.   Water, Sanitation Facilities: Common water and sanitation facilities
should be located on separate lots commonly owned by the users.
   K.   Streetlight, Fire Hydrant: One streetlight and one fire hydrant will be
provided on each corner. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-4: BUILDINGS:
   A.   Fire Standpipes: Standpipes complying with IBC shall be required for
all commercial and multi-residential buildings, regardless of the number of
stories.
   B.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed in accordance with town
regulations.
   C.   Provisions For Handicapped: Provisions for physically handicapped
persons shall be provided in all new buildings as required by the Americans
with disabilities act (ADA).
   D.   Construction Debris Removal: Any building construction on sites shall
provide debris removal sufficient to facilitate the regular clean up and
removal of construction debris from the site. Each site shall be cleaned and
all construction debris removed on a weekly basis. Failure to comply with this
subsection by allowing debris to accumulate on the premises, may result in the
suspension of building permits, fines or such other appropriate penalties as
the town council shall direct. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-5: ROADS; LAYOUT AND GEOMETRY:
   A.   Public Works Policy: The town public works policy on streets and roads
are made part of this chapter by reference. The design and arrangement and
construction of all roads, public and private, shall be in conformance with the
road standards, the provisions of this chapter, and any town design guidelines,
as adopted.
   B.   Arrangement Of Roads: The arrangement of roads shall provide for the
continuation of major roads between adjacent properties when the continuation
is necessary for the convenient movement of traffic, emergency or maintenance
vehicles, or the efficient provision of utilities.
   C.   Continuous; Alignment: Proposed streets shall be continuous and in
alignment with existing planned or platted streets with which they are to
connect.
   D.   Emergency Access: Roads shall be designed to provide emergency access
and egress for residents, occupants and emergency equipment, providing width,
curve radii and strength for emergency and maintenance vehicles used by or
available to the town.
   E.   Traffic Study: Where the potential traffic impacts on the existing
street systems are considered to be great, or in the case of unique
circumstances concerning topography or street layout, or at the request of the
town, the subdivider may be required to prepare a detailed engineering traffic
study of the road system.
   F.   Intersect Right Angle: Proposed streets shall intersect one another as
nearly at right angles as topography and other limiting factors of good design
permit. "T" intersections rather than "cross" intersections shall be used
wherever possible for local streets.
   G.   Terminus From Boundary: Where a road does not extend to the boundary of
the development and its continuation is not required, its terminus should be no
closer than fifty feet (50') from the boundary.
   H.   Reserve Strips: Strips of land reserved to control or restrict access
to perimeter or stubbed roads shall be utilized only where the reserve strip is
deeded to and accepted by the town.
   I.   Access: Lawful right of vehicular access must be demonstrated before
the town will issue a building permit.
   J.   Curbs, Gutters, Sidewalks: The installation of curbs, gutters and
sidewalks shall be constructed according to the APWA standards and as
designated in each zoning district, and may be required on any existing or
proposed street adjoining a lot on which a building is to be constructed or
remodeled, or on which a new use is to be established. Such curbs, gutters and
sidewalks may be required as conditions of building or use permit approval.
   K.   Dead End Streets: Every permanent dead end street shall comply with the
following requirements:
      1.   Not to exceed six hundred fifty feet (650') in total length.
      2.   End at a turnaround area having a radius no less than fifty feet
(50') and an asphalt surface.
   L.   Temporary Dead End Streets: Temporary dead end streets, intended as
access to future development parcels, shall be a minimum of one lot depth in
length (or as determined by the planning and zoning commission) and shall meet
all of the other requirements for permanent dead end streets set forth above.
   M.   Obstructions: Driveways, mailboxes, fire hydrants and all other
obstructions at such turnaround areas shall be designed in such a way as to
provide an area for piling snow. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-6: PRIVATE ROAD MAINTENANCE:
A means of perpetual maintenance must be demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the planning and zoning commission before a private road may be approved. (Ord.
04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-7: STREET NUMBERS:
   A.   Existing Streets: Each street that is a continuation of, or an
approximate continuation of, any existing dedicated street shall be given the
number of such existing street. When any street forms a portion of a proposed
street, it shall be surveyed, opened, widened or improved and given the same
number.
   B.   Newly Created Streets: The numbers of newly created streets shall not
duplicate or nearly duplicate the numbers of any streets in the town or in
adjacent areas of the county. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-8: UTILITIES:
   A.   Construction: All utility connections and lines shall be installed
underground. Before any installations are covered, material and service must be
inspected and approved by the building inspector. During the construction
period, temporary power poles and lines shall be allowed within the boundaries
of the construction project; however, such poles and lines must be taken down
within thirty (30) days after the final certificate of occupancy for the
project is granted.
   B.   Easements: All utilities shall be placed within public road right of
ways or specific right of ways or easements free of legal encumbrances.
Multiple use on given easements is encouraged. The final plat shall note all
easements. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-9: COMPLETION OF ON AND OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS PRIOR TO APPROVAL OF PLATS
OR ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Policy: In order to protect buyers of condominiums, subdivision
projects and other property in the town against purchasing property on which
the site improvement work is incomplete and may not be completed, and to
protect the public at large from dangerous and undesirable conditions that
result from unfinished site improvements, such as erosion, flooding and blowing
dust, it is the policy of the town that no plat will be approved (when a plat
is required) and that no certificate of occupancy will be issued (when plats
are not required) on any building project within the town limits unless and
until the site improvement work is completed or the developer of the property
has provided adequate security to assure timely completion of the improvements
when weather permits.
   B.   Detailed Site Plans: A detailed site plan showing the location and
nature of drainage work, grade changes, retaining walls and landscaping,
together with any trails, paths or walkways, shall be submitted to the building
inspector prior to issuance of an occupancy permit. Site improvements shall be
completed pursuant to this title and as shown in the detailed site plan.
   C.   Construction According To Approved Plans: No plat will be approved and
no certificate of occupancy will be issued unless that project and all required
site improvements have been constructed in accordance with the plans approved
by the building inspector and on which the building permit is issued, except as
specified in section
10-10-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-10: SECURITY FOR COMPLETION:
In the event that buildings on the property are completed before other required
on site improvements are completed, and the site improvements cannot be
completed simultaneously with the completion of the building due to weather or
other conditions beyond the control of the developer (excluding financial
inability to perform); or as it relates to subdivisions, in order to record a
final plat prior to completion of off site improvements, the town may grant
final plat approval or issue the certificate of occupancy for all or part of
the project prior to the completion of site improvements; provided, that all of
the following conditions are met:
   A.   The building or buildings, or portions thereof, on the property to be
platted or occupied have been constructed in accordance with the approved plans
for those buildings, and are in full compliance with applicable building and
fire codes, and are completed to the extent that only exterior site improvement
work remains unfinished and the building inspector determines that occupancy of
the buildings, or portions thereof, prior to completion of required on and off
site improvements, is safe, and that access for emergency vehicles is adequate
with the site improvements unfinished.
   B.   In regard to subdivisions, the building inspector approves all final
construction plans, a development agreement has been approved by the town
attorney and executed by the owner/developer, and the developer posts adequate
security for the benefit of the town and the public to ensure completion of the
site improvements in full compliance with the approved plans within two (2)
years from the date of plat approval (if required) or one year from the date of
issuance of the certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 04-
2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-11: AMOUNT OF SECURITY:
The amount of the security to be posted by the developer shall be determined by
the town council and shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the amount
reasonably estimated by a town appointed engineer as being necessary to
complete remaining on and off site improvements as shown on the approved plans.
In the event that the developer disputes the cost estimate of the town
appointed engineer, the developer may prove lower construction cost by
providing binding contracts between the developer and contractor or
subcontractor appropriate to perform the required work at a stated, fixed
price. A full performance bond, insuring performance by the subcontractor or
contractor, must support these contracts. Bid proposals are not satisfactory
for this purpose. If the contracts submitted are acceptable in form, the amount
of security required shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the total contract
price of all such contracts submitted, plus the estimated reasonable cost of
performing work not covered by the contracts. Specifications in such contracts
shall be sufficiently clear to identity the work called for under the contract.
The amount of security required for single-family homes shall be the reasonable
estimated cost of construction of any retainers and drainage and the estimated
cost of landscaping to the extent necessary to hold soil in place. The security
amount will also include all costs of expenditures made by the town in
connection with the development. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-12: TERM OF SECURITY; PROOF OF STATE LICENSE:
All public improvements required under this chapter shall be installed by a
contractor or subcontractors licensed by the state. Such license is for the
work to be performed, and the contractor and subcontractors must provide copies
of their licenses. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-13: FORM OF SECURITY:
Such security arrangement shall be one of the following types as dictated by
the town:
   A.   A bond with a surety company licensed to do business in the state.
   B.   An irrevocable letter of credit with a federally insured financial
institution.
   C.   A cashier's check made payable only to the town.
   D.   A trust or escrow account with a federally insured financial
institution designating the town as beneficiary. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-14: PAYMENT OF INTEREST:
Any interest accruing on funds held in escrow shall, unless expended for
completion of site improvements required, enure to the benefit of the developer
and not to the town. The town shall not be required to pay interest to the
developer on any escrow for this purpose. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-15: RELEASE OF FUNDS:
The town shall relinquish funds held or security posted for the purpose of
paying for site improvement work performed according to the plans as that work
is completed. The town shall release funds equal to the actual cost of
performing the work as the work progresses, minus ten percent (10%). Upon
satisfactory completion of all required site improvements work as determined by
an engineer designated by the town, all funds shall be immediately released to
the developer. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-16: MODIFICATION OF PLANS:
A developer may request modifications to plans covering site improvement work
by submitting revised plans to the town for review and action and final action.
If the modification of the plans increases the cost of required site
improvements, the developer must provide additional security to cover the
increased costs. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
10-10-17: PHASED PROJECTS:
Site improvements applicable to each phase of a phased project or development
shall be completed or security for completion provided as each phase is
constructed and either platted or occupied. Site improvements or other phases
of the project shall be completed or security offered as those phases are
completed. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
CHAPTER 11
MOBILE HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Location Restricted
10-11-1: LOCATION RESTRICTED:
No person, persons, firm, corporation or partnership shall move into or erect
on any lot or property within the limits of the town any mobile home or
recreational vehicle and occupy said mobile home or recreational vehicle for a
period exceeding two (2) weeks, unless said lot or property is located within a
designated mobile home or recreational vehicle park. It will be permissible to
occupy a mobile home or recreational vehicle for a period of up to two (2)
weeks. The trailer or recreational vehicle shall not be located on any public
road or right of way. (Ord. 04-2017, 4-6-2017)
CHAPTER 12
ANNEXATION POLICY
SECTION:
10-12-1: Title
10-12-2: Statement Of Purpose
10-12-3: Content Of Plan; Requirements
10-12-4: How Services Will Be Financed
10-12-5: Tax Consequences
10-12-6: Processing And Review Fees
10-12-7: Zoning/Density Of Annexed Property
10-12-8: Expansion Area Boundary And Definitions
10-12-9: Expansion Area Map
10-12-10: Properties List
10-12-11: Appendix A: Expansion Area Map
10-12-1: TITLE:
This chapter, when adopted, shall be referred to as the Meadow Town Annexation
Policy Plan. (Ord. 2019-6, 12-17-2019)
10-12-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The Annexation Policy Plan is written to provide the Town of Meadow with a
growth pattern that shall guide the development and expansion of the municipal
boundaries through annexation in a manner that is consistent with the General
Plan of the Town of Meadow, Millard County, and the laws of the State of Utah.
(Ord. 2019-6, 12-17-2019)
10-12-3: CONTENT OF PLAN; REQUIREMENTS:
It is the intent of this plan to protect and enhance private property rights of
property owner's within the municipal boundaries and in the unincorporated
areas surrounding the Town. It is the intent further that regulations contained
herein shall encourage sound planning practices and avoid unnecessary and
premature consumption of land that cannot be developed or serviced efficiently.
This has been developed in accordance with Section 10-2-401.5 of the Utah Code.
As such it represents a statement by the Town of its intended willingness to
consider incorporation of the property shown on the attached map within the
corporate boundary of the Town.
   A.   Character of the Community: The residents of Meadow have repeatedly
identified community character as "rural town atmosphere" as one of the primary
strengths and contributors of the quality of the life of the Town. Within the
context of an annexation request, the town will weigh the desired annexation
against the impact to this perception of rural-town atmosphere.
   B.   Municipal Services:
      1.   Meadow as a small town provides limited municipal services to the
residents of the Town. The following are a list the municipal services which
Meadow provides:
         a.   Electricity.
         b.   Culinary Water.
         c.   Streets and Roads.
         d.   Parks.
         e.   Fire Protection.
         f.   Cemetery Maintenance.
      2.   Areas within the annexation policy plan boundary either currently
receive or may in the future receive one or more of these services. In
considering requested annexations, Meadow Town will assess the existing
capacity of the services along with the additional demand for services that
will be placed upon the Town by the annexation. Additional service demands will
be weighed against additional revenues and other benefits that can be expected
to accrue to the Town as a result of the proposed annexation. These revenues
and benefits may include:
         a.   Property tax revenue.
         b.   Sales tax revenue.
         c.   Utility hookup fees and monthly billings.
         d.   Impact fees.
         e.   Benefits that can be obtained that accomplish a stated goal of
the Meadow Town General Plan.
      3.   The Town Council will use this assessment in objectively determining
whether or not, without discrimination, to grant a petition for annexation.
      4.   In areas where municipal services are not presently extended,
service shall be extended on an as needed basis at the developer's expense. All
extensions of municipal services shall comply with all Town ordinances and
policy criteria. An annexation agreement shall be prepared between the Town and
future developers outlining specific requirements relating to water, sewer,
transportation, electricity, telecommunications, fiber optic, and other
specific improvements prior to annexation approval. An approved annexation
petition shall allow developers of the annexed property to connect to Town
facilities, provided all infrastructures proposed to be connected meet Town
specifications and comply with all applicable development and land use
ordinances. When annexation is approved, the newly annexed area shall be
eligible to receive the following available services: fire protection; planning
and zoning; maintenance of dedicated Town streets; and other municipal and
utility services provided by the Town.
   C.   Contiguous to Municipal Boundaries: All proposed annexations shall be
contiguous to the current boundaries of the Town of Meadow.
   D.   Streets and Roads: The streets of Meadow will continue to be in the
block grid pattern of 131' wide streets running North and South and 96' wide
streets running East and West except where terrain or existing roads prohibit
it.
   E.   Parks and Recreation: Open space and parks are desirable elements in
the development of a community and contribute to the quality of life within the
community. Currently there is a park available to the residents of Meadow to
provide a variety of recreational needs. (Ord. 2019-6, 12-17-2019)
10-12-4: HOW SERVICES WILL BE FINANCED:
   A.   Infrastructure needed to service developed properties is installed at
the expense of the developer. Upon dedication to, and acceptance of this
infrastructure by the Town, maintenance will be at the expense of  the Town. In
addition, the Town imposes impact fees to offset the impact on off-site
infrastructure systems from new development.
   B.   Water rights equal to the amount of 60,000 gallons per 1/2 acre lot
shall be conveyed and deeded to the Town at the time of annexation. All costs
to develop water sources and integrate those sources into the Town's water
system shall be paid for by the developer at the time the development is
initiated. (Ord. 2019-6, 12-17-2019)
10-12-5: TAX CONSEQUENCES:
   A.   Meadow does not assess property value, but does receive a share of the
tax based on the assessment by Millard County.
   B.   Affected Entities: The annexation of land from one jurisdiction to
another has an effect on the Town of Meadow and Millard County.
      1.   Millard County - The effect of annexation on the tax base of Millard
County will be either neutral or positive. Annexed properties will continue to
pay Millard County property tax assessments, and it is likely that the value of
these properties will increase with access to Town of Meadow services, thus
raising the net property tax revenue to Millard County. Millard County will
also benefit from reduction in service demands on these properties.
      2.   Millard County School District - Properties within the expansion
area will remain in Millard County School District and will continue to pay the
district's property tax assessment. Therefore, the impact of annexations to the
school district will be neutral.
      3.   Neighboring Towns - Under current annexation plans Meadow Town will
not encroach or overlap any neighboring town. (Ord. 2019-6, 12-17- 2019)
10-12-6: PROCESSING AND REVIEW FEES:
The Town recorder, upon receipt of an annexation petition that complies with
the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 10-2-403, shall impose such
fees as established by the Town council by resolution to recover the costs of
processing such petition. (Ord. 2019-6, 12-17-2019)
10-12-7: ZONING/DENSITY OF ANNEXED PROPERTY:
Upon completion of the annexation process, areas designated as short term (1R),
medium term (2), and long term (3) will be zoned Rural Residential. Areas
within the short term area (1C) will be zoned Highway Commercial immediately
upon annexation. (Ord. 2019-6, 12-17-2019)
10-12-8: EXPANSION AREA BOUNDARY AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Growth plans shall be, short term (areas 1R and 1C on the map),
moderate term (area 2), and long- term (area 3). Long-term plans shall include
those areas where there are no immediate plans for development or
infrastructure to provide service within the next 10-15 years. Moderate-term
plans shall be for those areas where services can be extended reasonably within
the next 5-10 years(see Expansion Area Map in Appendix A).
   B.   Short-term plans will be divided into two areas (1R and 1C). Area 1R
shall include those areas on the East side of the 115 Freeway where services
presently exist. In order to be contiguous, and as narrow as possible, the
short term plan includes expansion areas 1/2 acre in size, with a 120'
frontage, along existing roadways where services are presently provided, or
contracted. Area 1C shall include the area west of the 115 Freeway and is
intended for immediate commercial development.
   C.   The Moderate expansion area (2R) shall be within 1 city block in 1
block increments from existing Meadow Town boundaries (see Expansion Area Map
in Appendix A). A city block will be defined as 8 acres of land that may be
subdivided into 1/2 acre building lots which meet the standards of the
applicable zone, plus a strip of land 131' wide on the East or west boundaries
of each block and 96' on the North or South boundaries will be required for
streets. The length and width of the properties will need to be varied to allow
new roads to align with existing roads where applicable.
   D.   Long Term expansion area (3R) shall be within 1/2 mile from existing
Meadow Town boundaries and will be expanded in the same increments as the
medium term area (see Expansion Area Map in Appendix A).  (Ord. 2019-6, 12- 17-
2019)
10-12-9: EXPANSION AREA MAP:
A map of the expansion areas is included in Appendix A of this plan and made a
part by reference. This map outlines the boundaries of the three levels of
growth as described above.
Annexation Petition:
Refer to Utah Code, Section 10-2-403.  (Ord. 2019-6, 12-17-2019)
10-12-10: PROPERTIES LIST:
The Properties List (see Appendix A, Section
10-12-11) includes properties that are currently located within the proposed
annexation area. As these properties may be bought, sold, sub divided or
otherwise modified in the future, their current boundaries will only be used as
a guide for determining the proposed annexation area. The Town Council will
make the final determination of a property's eligibility for annexation. This
decision will be based upon criteria set forth in the Meadow General Plan, the
Sub Division Ordinance, and section 10-12-8 of this ordinance. An attempt will
be made to follow property boundaries when implementing the annexation.  (Ord.
2019-6, 12-17-2019)
10-12-11: APPENDIX A: EXPANSION AREA MAP:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/05fa655d0cbe582f258e74e16ae677368989befa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-498.png]
Properties List:
Boundaries Parcel ID Property Size
Properties List:
Boundaries Parcel ID Property Size
Annexation Boundary 1C
27004                11.6
153610               6.9
27095                16.6
27103*            3.1
153628               9.5
27111                6.1
Annexation Boundary 1R
27863                10.4
27871                2.81
27129                2.12
28713*            5.49
28689                14.6
Annexation Boundary 2R
28804*            5.6
28796                11.8
28788*            12.4
28713*            1.81
28697                8.6
28705                5.7
Annexation Boundary 3R
28556*            7.4
150269*              7.1
150251               7.1
160524*              2.1
160516               2.1
28416                6.8
28457                1.1
28440                7.1
28432                3.8
28424                2.4
*part of property is within annexation boundary
 
(Ord. 2019-6, 12-17-2019)
