COUNTY CODE
of
MILLARD COUNTY, UTAH
2005
Contains ordinances up to and including ordinance 15-02-17, passed February 17,
2015
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
One West Fourth Street  *  3rd Floor  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This county code of Millard County, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 15-02-17, passed February 17, 2015. Ordinances of the
county adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this county
code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult
the county office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho
PENDING ORDINANCES
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Purpose
1-1-3: Scope
1-1-4: Acceptance
1-1-5: Amendments
1-1-6: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the county commissioners, this county code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official county code of
Millard County. This county code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
MILLARD COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the county
commissioners and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the county as provided in section
1-1-5 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this county code by title in any legal documents. (2005 Code)
1-1-2: PURPOSE:
The publication of this code is for the information and convenience of the
citizenry and for the consolidation of all Millard County ordinances. This code
is enacted for the purpose of promoting safety, health, and prosperity in the
county and improving the morals, peace, good order, comfort and convenience of
the county and its inhabitants. By adopting this code, the board of county
commissioners aspires to establish an orderly government that will protect the
civil and property rights of its citizens. (1988 Code § 1.01.010; amd. 2005
Code)
1-1-3: SCOPE:
This code shall apply to all areas lying within the boundaries of the county
except:
   A.   Where specifically stated otherwise in this code; or
   B.   Within the boundaries of any incorporated municipality to the extent
that this code conflicts with the independent sovereign authority of such
municipality, or where such application would exceed the jurisdiction that can
be exercised by the county; or
   C.   Where such application would be contrary to the United States
constitution or the laws of the United States of America or the constitution or
laws of the state of Utah. (1988 Code § 1.01.030)
1-1-4: ACCEPTANCE:
This county code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2005 Code)
1-1-5: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the county code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this county code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this county code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the county code. (2005 Code)
1-1-6: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this county code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the county commissioners. The county clerk shall see that the replacement pages
are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the
county clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of the county code shall make
every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
office of the county clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of
officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the
county and shall be returned to the office of the county clerk when directed so
to do by order of the county commissioners. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the county passed prior
to the adoption of this county code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this county code or are by necessary implication herein reserved
from repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following
sections), and excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby
repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; fee ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating
streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the county; and all special
ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2005 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this county code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the county code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this county code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2005 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the county herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this county code. (2005 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this county code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The county
commissioners hereby declare that they would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
In the construction of the provisions set out in this code, the following rules
shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the board of county commissioners, or repugnant to the
context of said provisions:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the county may be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Language Changes: Mere language changes are not intended to reflect
changes in the substance or meaning of this code. (1988 Code §§ 1.04.010,
1.04.020; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Computation Of Time: Except when otherwise provided, the time within
which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last day. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or
holiday, the last day shall be the next following business day. (1988 Code §
1.04.030; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other county officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   F.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   G.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or offers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   H.   May/Must/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the words "must" and
"shall" are each mandatory.
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   K.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the
words "of Millard County".
   L.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   M.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
county has been changed in the content of this county code to "title",
"chapter", "section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for
organizational and clarification purposes only. Such change to the county's
ordinances is not meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original
ordinances. (1988 Code § 1.04.010; amd. 2005 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The board of county commissioners of Millard
County.
BOARD OF HEALTH: The central Utah district board of health.
BUSINESS: Any activity, operation, enterprise or calling referred to in this
code for which a license is required.
CITY OR TOWN: An incorporated municipality, as defined by Utah law.
CODE: The county code of Millard County, Utah.
COUNTY: Millard County, Utah, and may also be construed to mean the portions of
Millard County, Utah, outside the limits of the incorporated cities or towns
located in Millard County.
COUNTY ASSESSOR OR ASSESSOR: The assessor of Millard County, Utah.
COUNTY ATTORNEY OR ATTORNEY: The attorney of Millard County, Utah.
COUNTY AUDITOR OR AUDITOR: The auditor of Millard County, Utah.
COUNTY CLERK OR CLERK: The clerk of Millard County, Utah.
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The Millard County board of county commissioners.
COUNTY RECORDER OR RECORDER: The recorder of Millard County, Utah.
COUNTY SHERIFF OR SHERIFF: The sheriff of Millard County, Utah.
COUNTY SURVEYOR OR SURVEYOR: The surveyor of Millard County, Utah.
COUNTY TREASURER OR TREASURER: The treasurer of Millard County, Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the county for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to county regulation,
authorization or limitation.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The Millard County fire department.
HIGHWAY OR PUBLIC HIGHWAY: Any road, street, lane, court, place, viaduct,
tunnel, culvert, bridge, alley or other public way situated within the county,
laid out or erected as such by the public, or dedicated, abandoned or open to
the public, or made such in any action for the partition of real property, or
such other public property so designated by any ordinance or statute, and
includes the entire area within the right of way.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that facts exist that bring the act or
omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any knowledge
of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LAW: Means and denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of
the state of Utah, the ordinances of Millard County, and, when appropriate, any
and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MALICIOUSLY OR MALICE: Means and imports a wish to vex, annoy or injure another
person, or an intent to do a wrongful act, established either by proof or by
presumption of law.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the county, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the county.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land, means and includes any full or part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or owner or lessee of the
whole or of any part of the building or land.
PERSON: Includes any individual, partnership, association, corporation, body
politic, or group of individuals, however styled or designated.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished, and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Means and includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Means and includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and
improvements thereto.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Utah.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
means and implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the
omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to
injure another or to acquire any advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Means and includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed,
multigraphed, or other reproduction in permanent visible form, but when the
written signature of any person is required by law to any official or public
writing or bond, it shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in
case such person is unable to write, by such person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year unless specified otherwise. (1988 Code § 1.04.010; amd.
2005 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the county code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2005
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Specified:
         a.   When no other penalty is prescribed, any person convicted of
violating any provision or provisions of this code shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to the same punishment prescribed for class B
misdemeanors under the laws of the state.
         b.   If this code specifies that violation of any section hereof shall
be a class B misdemeanor, class C misdemeanor or infraction, the punishment for
such offenses shall be the same as that prescribed for the same degree of
offense as under the laws of the state. (1988 Code § 1.08.010)
      2.   Traffic; Parking:
         a.   Except as specifically authorized by statute, the legislative
body may not impose a civil penalty for the violation of a county traffic
ordinance.
         b.   Subsection A2a of this section does not apply to an ordinance
regulating the parking of vehicles on a highway.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the county, or for an
offense defined outside of this code over which this county has jurisdiction,
for which no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount
fixed by the court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 17-53-223.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this county shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this county when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this county, or which is expressly designated an infraction and
any offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this county which is
not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 76-3-104.
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Number Of Members; Eligibility; Election Or Appointment
1-5-2: Terms Of Office
1-5-3: Vacancies In Office
1-5-4: Meetings
1-5-5: Chairman; Oaths; Quorum
1-5-6: Powers And Duties
1-5-1: NUMBER OF MEMBERS; ELIGIBILITY; ELECTION OR APPOINTMENT:
The county board of commissioners shall consist of three (3) members. Each
member shall be an elector of the county for at least one year preceding the
election. Members shall be elected by the qualified electors of the county at
large, or may, in special circumstances, be appointed as provided by section
1-5-3 of this chapter. (1988 Code § 2.01.010)
1-5-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
County commissioners shall be elected to a four (4) year term of office at the
general election next preceding the expiration of the term of office of
incumbents, and each shall hold office for the term for which elected and until
a successor is elected and has qualified. (1988 Code § 2.01.020; amd. 2005
Code)
1-5-3: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
Vacancies in office shall be filled as provided in Utah Code Annotated section
20A-1-508. (1988 Code § 2.01.030; amd. 2005 Code)
1-5-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   The board of county commissioners shall hold regular meetings on the
first and third Tuesday of every month of the year in Fillmore, Utah. Said
meetings shall be held at ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. In case any such days falls
upon a holiday, such meeting shall be deemed adjourned until the next
succeeding meeting date. The time of such meetings may be changed or altered to
any other time by the vote of at least two (2) members of the board, duly
entered into the minutes of any preceding meeting thereof.
      2.   Any meeting of the board may be recessed, once convened, to any
other time, place or day before the next succeeding regular meeting.
      3.   Any regularly scheduled meeting may be canceled in advance by a vote
of any two (2) members of the board taken at a duly convened regular meeting in
the event there will be no business to transact or when it is known in advance
a quorum cannot be obtained. (Ord. 12-07-03, 7-3-2012)
1-5-5: CHAIRMAN; OATHS; QUORUM:
   A.   Chairman And Temporary Chairman: The county commissioners shall elect
one of their members as chairman to preside at all meetings of the board. In
case of the chairman's absence, inability or refusal to act, the members
present must, by an order entered in their minutes, select one of the members
to act as temporary chairman.
   B.   Administering Oaths: Any member of the board may administer oaths to
any person when necessary in the performance of his official duties.
   C.   Quorum: Not less than two (2) members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, and no act of the board shall be valid or binding
unless two (2) members concur therein. (1988 Code § 2.01.070)
1-5-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The board of county commissioners shall be the legislative
division of county government. It may supervise the official conduct of all
county and department officers, assuring that they faithfully perform their
duties. It may also direct prosecutions for delinquencies and, when necessary,
require county officers to renew their official bonds, make reports, and
present their books and accounts for inspection. The commissioners shall enact
regulations and ordinances as necessary and shall have such other powers and
duties as are prescribed by law. (1988 Code § 2.01.040)
   B.   Contract Authorization: The commissioners shall make or authorize the
making of all contracts to which the county may be a party. All contracts, in
order to be binding on the county, shall be reduced to writing and approved by
the commissioners. The commissioners may expressly authorize a contract by
ordinance or resolution. (1988 Code § 2.01.090)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Elective And Appointive Officers
1-6-2: Oath Of Office
1-6-3: Fidelity Bonds And Theft Or Crime Insurance
1-6-4: Salaries
1-6-5: Deputies And Assistants
1-6-6: Absences; Termination Of Office
1-6-7: Powers And Duties
1-6-8: Inspection And Enforcement Powers
1-6-9: Open Records
1-6-10: Interfering With, Impersonating Officers And Employees
1-6-11: Disabled Officers; Compensation And Appointment Of Successor
1-6-1: ELECTIVE AND APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
All elective county officers, except as otherwise provided, shall be elected at
the general election held every four (4) years. Said elected officers shall
hold office for the terms for which elected, beginning at twelve o'clock (12:
00) noon of the first Monday in January following their election and until
their respective successors are elected or appointed and qualified. The elected
offices in the county are:
County assessor.
County attorney.
County auditor.
County clerk.
County commissioners.
County recorder/surveyor.
County sheriff.
County treasurer.
Justice court judges. (1988 Code §§ 2.04.020, 2.04.050; amd. 2005 Code)
1-6-2: OATH OF OFFICE:
Every officer of the county shall, before entering upon his duties, take the
oath prescribed by law. (1988 Code § 2.04.030)
1-6-3: FIDELITY BONDS AND THEFT OR CRIME INSURANCE:
   A.   As used in this section, "county officials" means:
      1.   The Millard County commission;
      2.   The Millard County clerk;
      3.   The Millard County auditor;
      4.   The Millard County sheriff;
      5.   The Millard County attorney;
      6.   The Millard County recorder/surveyor;
      7.   The Millard County assessor;
      8.   Each justice court judge and constable within the county;
      9.   The Millard County treasurer; and
      10.   Each deputy or assistant of those listed in subsections A1 through
A9 of this section for whom the county commission determines a general fidelity
bond or theft or crime insurance should be acquired.
   B.   1. The county commission shall prescribe the amount of each general
fidelity bond or of theft or crime insurance to be acquired for county
officials, except the county treasurer, before the county officials, except the
county treasurer, may discharge the duties of their respective offices.
      2.   The state money management council created in section 51-7-16, Utah
Code Annotated, or any successor statute adopted in its place, shall prescribe
the amount of a general fidelity bond or theft or crime insurance to be
acquired for the county treasurer before the county treasurer may discharge the
duties of that office.
      3.   The county commission may acquire a fidelity bond or theft or crime
insurance on all county officials as a group rather than individually.
   C.   1. The county commission shall approve the premium for each fidelity
bond before the bond may be filed.
      2.   The cost of each fidelity bond and theft or crime insurance policy
shall be paid from county funds.
   D.   Each fidelity bond shall be filed and maintained in the office of the
Millard County clerk, except those of the Millard County clerk which shall be
filed with the Millard County treasurer. (Ord. 08-09-16A, 9-16-2008)
1-6-4: SALARIES:
All elected county officers herein designated shall receive such salaries as
are provided by Utah Code Annotated section 17-16-14. (1988 Code § 2.04.060)
1-6-5: DEPUTIES AND ASSISTANTS:
Every county or district officer, except a county commissioner or a judicial
officer, may, with the consent of the board of county commissioners, appoint as
many deputies and assistants as may be necessary for the prompt and faithful
discharge of the duties of his office. The board shall allow the clerk of the
district court such deputies and assistants to transact the business pertaining
to the district court as the judge or judges of the district court may deem
necessary. The appointment of a deputy must be made in writing and filed in the
office of the county clerk. Until such appointment is so made and filed and
until such deputy shall have taken the oath of office, no one shall be or act
as deputy. Any officer appointing any deputy is liable for all official acts of
that deputy. (1988 Code § 2.04.080)
1-6-6: ABSENCES; TERMINATION OF OFFICE:
   A.   Absences: No officer of the county shall be absent from the county for
more than thirty (30) consecutive days without the consent of the board of
county commissioners. (1988 Code § 2.04.100)
   B.   Termination Of Office:
      1.   Property To Successor: Every officer and employee of the county,
upon the expiration of his term for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his
successor all books and records that may be the property of the county. If no
successor has been appointed within one week after the termination of office,
the officer shall deliver such property to either the county clerk or to the
county treasurer, who shall issue a receipt therefor.
      2.   Completion Of Work: Every officer has the responsibility of
completing all business of his office before the expiration of the official
term. Should unfinished work remain for which the outgoing officer has received
pay, he shall be liable to pay his successor the full value of any services
performed by such successor. (1988 Code § 2.04.110)
1-6-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The various county officers shall execute their duties according to the
provisions found in Utah Code Annotated. Further, the board of county
commissioners may assign or delegate additional duties and responsibilities.
(1988 Code § 2.04.050)
   B.   The board of county commissioners shall have the power to assign to any
appointive or elected officer any duty that is not assigned by ordinance or
statute to some other specific officer. The board shall determine disputes or
questions relating to the respective powers or duties of such officers. (1988
Code § 2.04.070)
1-6-8: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT POWERS:
Any county officer or employee who is authorized to enforce ordinances may make
such inspections as are necessary to ensure their enforcement. Whenever an
officer or employee shall have reason to believe there exists on any premises
within the county's jurisdiction any health or fire hazard, or a structural or
electrical defect likely to result in injury to person or property, he shall
ask permission of the occupant, owner or custodian thereof to inspect the same.
In the event that the owner or custodian refuses permission, the officer or
employee must follow the procedure outline in Utah Code Annotated section 77-
23-201 et seq., in order to make an inspection. (1988 Code § 2.04.090)
1-6-9: OPEN RECORDS:
All records kept by a county officer shall be open to inspection by any member
of the board of county commissioners at all reasonable times, whether or not
such records are required to be kept by statute or ordinance, except such
records as shall be specified by resolution or ordinance of the commissioners
or by order of a competent court. (1988 Code § 2.04.120)
1-6-10: INTERFERING WITH, IMPERSONATING OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Interfering With Officers Or Employees: It is unlawful to interfere
with or hinder any county officer or employee engaged in the duties of his
office or employment. (1988 Code § 2.04.130)
   B.   Impersonating Officers Or Employees: It is unlawful for any person to
impersonate or perform the duties of any county officer or employee, without
lawful authority to do so. (1988 Code § 2.04.140)
1-6-11: DISABLED OFFICERS; COMPENSATION AND APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR:
It is unlawful for any county officer, whether elected or appointed, to draw
pay for periods of sickness or disablement in excess of that provided under the
sick leave provisions of the "County Policy And Procedures Manual". When, in
the opinion of the board of county commissioners, any county officer shall be
so disabled as to be unable to properly perform the duties and functions of his
office, the board shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the officer's
term, unless otherwise prescribed by law. (1988 Code § 2.04.150)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Voting Districts
1-7-2: Justice Court Precincts
1-7-1: VOTING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Districts Established: The voting districts of the county are
established as follows:
District Number Name Of District
District Number Name Of District
                
1               Fillmore, south of Center Street
2               Fillmore, north of Center Street
3               Meadow
4               Kanosh
5               Deseret-Oasis
6               Oak City
7               Leamington
8               Holden
9               Scipio
11              Hinckley
14              Abraham
16              Garrison
17              Delta, north of Main Street
18              Delta, south of Main Street
19              Lynndyl
20              Sutherland
25              Flowell
 
   (1988 Code § 1.12.010)
   B.   Map Of Voting Districts: The board of county commissioners hereby
adopts by reference the official map denoting the county voting districts. Said
map is on file in the office of the county clerk for public use and inspection.
(1988 Code § 1.12.010; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Determination Of District Boundaries: Any confusion regarding voting
districts may be resolved by the county clerk's office. In the event the county
clerk's office is unable to resolve any question regarding voting districts,
the county clerk shall raise the issue with the board of county commissioners
in the next regularly scheduled board meeting. (1988 Code § 1.12.010)
1-7-2: JUSTICE COURT PRECINCTS:
There are two (2) precincts within the county for the jurisdiction of the
justice courts. They are the Millard County justice court, east precinct and
the Millard County justice court, west precinct. The precinct court judges may,
as needed, sit anywhere in the county. The descriptions of the precinct
boundaries are on file in the office of the county clerk for public use and
inspection. (1988 Code § 1.12.020; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 8
PROPERTY DISPOSAL
ARTICLE A.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Authority To Acquire, Manage, And Dispose Of Real And Personal Property
1-8A-2: Means Of Disposal
1-8A-3: Minimum Bid
1-8A-4: Disposal Of Real Property In Public Use Or A Significant Parcel Of Real
Property
1-8A-5: Disposal Of Personal Property
1-8A-6: Approval Of Board Of County Commissioners; Records
1-8A-7: Application To County Agencies
1-8A-1: AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE, MANAGE, AND DISPOSE OF REAL AND PERSONAL
PROPERTY:
The board of county commissioners may purchase, receive, hold, sell, lease,
convey, or otherwise acquire and dispose of any real or personal property or
any interest in such property that it determines to be in the public interest,
subject to the following provisions. (Ord. 08-04-01, 4-1-2008)
1-8A-2: MEANS OF DISPOSAL:
Subject to section
1-8A-4 of this article, the board of county commissioners may dispose of, or
control the disposition of, any county property, real or personal, and
including lost or abandoned property 1 , or any legal or equitable interest in
property, the disposition of which is determined to be in the public interest
and in accordance with good property management. The disposition of property,
or any interest therein, may be by public or private sale, exchange, exchange
and sale, option to purchase, lease, lease with an option to purchase, rental,
trade in, public auction, public advertisement for sealed bids, or any other
lawful manner or means. The disposition of property shall not be for less than
a full and adequate consideration except for property which is determined to
lie within the boundaries of a street or highway, for properties which are
conveyed or traded to a municipality or the state of Utah, or for small parcels
of property unusable by Millard County. Such consideration may be other than
monetary. (Ord. 08-04-01, 4-1-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also article B of this chapter.
1-8A-3: MINIMUM BID:
The board of county commissioners may set minimum bid prices on property, real
or personal, based upon professional appraisals or by recommendations by the
department or departments of Millard County involved in the sale. (Ord. 08-04-
01, 4-1-2008)
1-8A-4: DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC USE OR A SIGNIFICANT PARCEL OF REAL
PROPERTY:
The power to dispose of real property held by the county is vested in the board
of county commissioners and such disposition may be made in any manner
authorized in section
1-8A-2 of this article. The disposition of real property which is in public
use, regardless of the value thereof, or of a "significant parcel of real
property", as defined herein, shall be made only with the approval of the board
of county commissioners and after a public hearing and reasonable notice
thereof, as defined herein. "Real property in public use" is defined as realty,
and improvements thereon, in actual current use by the county, including, but
not limited to, governmental offices or other public buildings, courthouses,
jails and police stations, fire stations, developed parks or other recreational
or entertainment facilities, libraries, educational facilities, utilities,
cemeteries, animal control facilities, hospitals or other health facilities,
facilities for the welfare of indigents, sanitary landfills, or any other
realty or improvement thereon held for the benefit or advantage of the general
public and not confined to use by privileged or particular individuals, without
regard to whether that use may be classified as governmental or proprietary. A
"significant parcel of real property" is defined as any parcel having an
estimated value, as determined by the board of county commissioners, of more
than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). The board of county
commissioners shall hold a public hearing concerning such dispositions of
realty, which hearing may be at any special or regularly scheduled meeting of
said board, at which hearing all interested persons may appear and be heard.
Public notice shall be given of said hearing which shall contain the date,
time, and place thereof, a statement of the purpose of the hearing, and a
general description of the property, or the interest therein, to be disposed.
Such notice shall be published at least once fourteen (14) days prior to the
date of the hearing, in a newspaper having general circulation within Millard
County. The notice required herein is defined as reasonable notice. (Ord. 08-
04-01, 4-1-2008)
1-8A-5: DISPOSAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
The power to dispose of surplus, obsolete, or unusable personal property held
by the county is vested in the county purchasing agent and such disposition may
be made in any manner authorized in section
1-8A-2 of this article. The purchasing agent shall have discretion, subject to
the best interests of county government and of the citizens of the county and
in accordance with good property management techniques, over the disposition
and manner of disposition of surplus, obsolete, or unusable personal property
with a value of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) or less,
provided, however, that such discretion extends only to the initiation and
negotiation of the sale or other disposition; no such disposition shall be
finalized without the approval of the board of county commissioners. For
personal property with a value in excess of one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00), the disposition and manner of disposition of surplus property must
be approved prior to the commencement of negotiations by the board of county
commissioners. No disposition involving amounts in excess of one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) shall be split into parts by any concerned party so
as to produce amounts of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) or less,
for the purpose of avoiding the provisions of this section. (Ord. 08-04-01, 4-
1-2008)
1-8A-6: APPROVAL OF BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS; RECORDS:
No disposition of real or personal property, in public use or otherwise, shall
be finalized until after the board of county commissioners, at a regularly
scheduled commission meeting, shall have reviewed and approved the disposition,
manner of disposition, and consideration benefiting Millard County. The
purchasing agent shall maintain permanent public records reflecting a
description of the property sold or otherwise conveyed, an appraisal of the
property, if one has been secured, the manner of disposition, the consideration
received by Millard County, the identity of the person to whom such property
was sold or otherwise disposed of, the date of disposition, the date of
approval by the board of county commissioners, and the nature of the county's
use of said property prior to disposition. (Ord. 08-04-01, 4-1-2008)
1-8A-7: APPLICATION TO COUNTY AGENCIES:
The provisions of this article shall be applicable to all boards, commissions,
authorities, committees, councils, or other bodies within the jurisdiction of
the board of county commissioners and owning or holding real or personal
property. When real or personal property is disposed of under the provisions of
this article and such property was purchased by a county agency or other body
which has an independent revenue base or which has an account separate from the
general fund, that agency's account shall be credited with the amount realized
from the disposition. If the county receives something other than monetary
consideration for the disposition, distribution of that consideration shall be
in accordance with the direction of the board of county commissioners. (Ord.
08-04-01, 4-1-2008)
ARTICLE B.  LOST, ABANDONED OR UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Definitions
1-8B-2: Receipt Of Property From Private Citizens
1-8B-3: Identification Of Property; Notice To Owner
1-8B-4: Sale Or Use Of Unclaimed Property
1-8B-5: Sale Of Firearms And Weapons
1-8B-6: Donation Or Destruction Of Unsold Property
1-8B-7: Disposition Of Proceeds
1-8B-8: Record Keeping
1-8B-9: Reclamation Of Sold Property
1-8B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED PROPERTY: Personal property found under circumstances reasonably
indicating that the owner does not intend to control or possess it.
LOST PROPERTY: Personal property, the location of which is unknown to the
owner.
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY: Personal property held by the sheriff for a period of three
(3) months or more and is unclaimed within that period by the owner; or is
personal property held by the sheriff in connection with a court proceeding,
the disposition of which is not otherwise determined by law or court order, and
is unclaimed by the owner within a period of three (3) months following the end
of such court proceeding. (1988 Code § 3.12.010)
1-8B-2: RECEIPT OF PROPERTY FROM PRIVATE CITIZENS:
The sheriff has the power to receive lost, abandoned or unclaimed tangible or
intangible property from a private citizen. Upon receipt of such property, the
sheriff shall then make reasonable efforts to locate the owner of such
property. If, after three (3) months, the owner has not been located or the
property claimed, the sheriff shall return the property to the citizen. If the
citizen disclaims the property, then the property shall be distributed
according to the provisions of section
1-8B-4 of this article. (1988 Code § 3.12.030)
1-8B-3: IDENTIFICATION OF PROPERTY; NOTICE TO OWNER:
   A.   It is the sheriff's duty to keep all lost, abandoned or unclaimed
property which comes into the possession of the sheriff's department or any of
its members. The sheriff shall make all reasonable efforts to identify and
locate the owner or owners of said property and to return said property to such
owner. (1988 Code § 3.12.020)
   B.   Whenever the owner of lost, abandoned or unclaimed property is
identified and located, the sheriff shall mail to the owner written notice
describing the property, giving its present location, and stating the
circumstances under which he came into possession thereof. The sheriff shall
give notice to the owner that he must claim his property within the time
provided by such notice or the property will be disposed of as hereinafter
provided. (1988 Code § 3.12.040)
1-8B-4: SALE OR USE OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   Advertising For Sale: If the owner of lost, abandoned or unclaimed
property fails to claim such property within fifteen (15) days from the receipt
of notice, or is not identified and located within a period of three (3)
months, the sheriff may advertise the sale of such property for at least two
(2) days in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. The sheriff may,
on the date specified in such advertisement, offer the property to the public
at public auction. The sheriff shall schedule the time of the public sale for a
date not less than five (5) days after published notice of the sale has been
completed, and the sheriff shall post notice in the manner appropriate for the
sale of personal property on execution. (1988 Code § 3.12.050)
   B.   Notice To County Departments: The sheriff shall also mail a list to the
auditor of all lost, abandoned or unclaimed property which will be offered for
public sale. The auditor will then notify the other county departments of the
property offered for public sale. (1988 Code § 3.12.060)
   C.   County Use Of Unclaimed Property:
      1.   Requests For Use: If a county department wishes to use any of the
lost, abandoned or unclaimed property offered for sale, then a written request
stating which property the department needs should be sent to the sheriff's
department and the auditor not later than seven (7) days before the public
sale. (1988 Code § 3.12.070)
      2.   Joint Committee; Use Request Review Duties: A joint committee
comprised of an authorized representative from the sheriff's department and an
authorized representative of the auditor shall then review departmental
requests for the use of property and shall determine which department shall be
assigned the property. The remaining advertised property will then be offered
for public sale on the published date. This joint committee may authorize the
sheriff's department to destroy or otherwise dispose of any property subject to
this article where the committee determines such property is valueless or of
such little value that the costs of conducting a sale and advertising would
probably exceed the amount realized therefrom. (1988 Code § 3.12.080)
1-8B-5: SALE OF FIREARMS AND WEAPONS:
All sales of firearms, handguns or other property subject to the 1968 gun
control act, 18 United States Code section 921 et seq., shall be made in
compliance therewith. (1988 Code § 3.12.090)
1-8B-6: DONATION OR DESTRUCTION OF UNSOLD PROPERTY:
All advertised lost, abandoned or unclaimed property remaining unsold or
unassigned for departmental use under sections
1-8B-1 through
1-8B-5 of this article may then be either destroyed or donated to public or
private charities, as directed by the joint committee. (1988 Code § 3.12.110)
1-8B-7: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS:
The auditor shall deposit all monies from the public sale of lost, abandoned or
unclaimed property in a separate fund credited to the county. (1988 Code §
3.12.100)
1-8B-8: RECORD KEEPING:
The auditor shall keep an accurate record indicating:
   A.   A listing of any property sold or distributed under the provisions of
this article;
   B.   The amount of money received from public sales; and
   C.   The fair market value, estimated by the joint committee, of any
property distributed for use by a county department. (1988 Code § 3.12.120)
1-8B-9: RECLAMATION OF SOLD PROPERTY:
   A.   Reclamation By Owner: If the owner, his successors or legal
representatives, of any lost, abandoned or unclaimed property sold at auction
or utilized by a county department demands his property within seven (7) years
from the date the property was received by the sheriff's department, the county
treasurer shall pay to him, after deducting the fees and expenses of the county
in relation to the matter, the proceeds of the public sale, or if the property
was assigned to a county department, the fair market value of the property.
(1988 Code § 3.12.130)
   B.   Failure Of Owner To Claim: If the owner, his successors or legal
representatives, of any lost, abandoned or unclaimed property sold at auction
does not claim the proceeds from the sale of his property within the seven (7)
year period, the proceeds from the public sale shall revert to the county
general fund. (1988 Code § 3.12.140)
ARTICLE C.  STOLEN PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Definition
1-8C-2: Investigation And Seizure Of Property Reported Stolen
1-8C-3: Court Order To Return Seized Property
1-8C-4: Disposition Of Seized Property
1-8C-1: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this article, "stolen property" means all property held by the
sheriff as part of a criminal investigation into the theft or robbery of goods,
or related offenses. (1988 Code § 3.16.010)
1-8C-2: INVESTIGATION AND SEIZURE OF PROPERTY REPORTED STOLEN:
The sheriff shall investigate all goods reported stolen by theft or deception
and may seize the same pending the completion of the criminal investigation.
(1988 Code § 3.16.020)
1-8C-3: COURT ORDER TO RETURN SEIZED PROPERTY:
The sheriff shall return all property seized as part of a criminal
investigation in accordance with any court orders governing the disposition of
the goods in the criminal proceeding. (1988 Code § 3.16.030)
1-8C-4: DISPOSITION OF SEIZED PROPERTY:
If the case is not prosecuted or there is no court order governing the
disposition of the property, the property will be disposed of as follows:
   A.   The sheriff shall return to the owner all property stolen or wrongfully
taken without the owner's consent or acquiescence. The owner must establish his
right to possess such property and the county attorney must authorize its
return.
   B.   The sheriff shall not return any property involved in theft by fraud or
deceit where the owner may have consented or acquiesced in the taking of
property by the thief until the case file is reviewed by the county attorney.
The county attorney must ensure that any intervening interests that may have
inured to a bona fide purchaser or pledgor of goods having a voidable title
under the uniform commercial code, Utah Code Annotated section 70A-1-101 et
seq., as amended, are protected. In the case of goods transferred with a
voidable title, the sheriff shall dispose of this property in accordance with
the instructions of the county attorney. After returning the property, the
sheriff shall notify all parties who may have an interest in the goods as to
the disposition of the property. Firearms seized by the sheriff shall be
returned to the owner only if the owner is entitled to possess the firearms
under state and federal law. In no event shall the sheriff return goods except
to a person lawfully entitled to possession of the same. (1988 Code § 3.16.030)
CHAPTER 9
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Purpose
1-9-2: Definition
1-9-3: Guidelines And Identification
1-9-4: Analyses
1-9-5: Appeals
1-9-6: Limitations
1-9-7: Legal Action
1-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide advisory guidelines for the county to
assist the county in identifying actions that involve the unconstitutional
taking or damaging of private real property without the payment of just
compensation as required by the constitutions of the United States and of the
state of Utah. (Ord. 2.20, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
1-9-2: DEFINITION:
As used herein, the term "constitutional taking issues" shall mean actions
involving the physical or regulatory taking of private real property by the
county that might require compensation to a private real property owner under:
   A.   The fifth or fourteenth amendment of the constitution of the United
States;
   B.   Article I, section 22 of the Utah constitution; or
   C.   Any recent court rulings governing the physical or regulatory taking of
private real property by a governmental entity. (Ord. 2.20, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-
2003)
1-9-3: GUIDELINES AND IDENTIFICATION:
The following guidelines shall be considered by the county when taking any
action that might result in the physical or regulatory taking of private real
property. The county should review the following to determine and identify
whether a proposed governmental action raises constitutional taking issues. It
is the policy of the county that no individuals bear burdens which, in all
fairness and justice, should be borne by the community as a whole. A "yes"
answer to any of the following questions could raise the implications of a
taking or damaging of private property for which just compensation may be
required:
   A.   Does the action result in a permanent or inevitably recurring physical
occupation of private property?
   B.   Does the action require a property owner to dedicate property or grant
an easement to the county without the payment of just compensation?
   C.   Does the action create or otherwise impose a permanent or ongoing
nuisance, originating on county property, that impacts neighboring lands so
that their owners or occupants sustain a special and unreasonable interference
with the quiet enjoyment of their property?
   D.   Does the action interfere with a fundamental attribute of ownership
such as the right to reasonable access, the right to light, air and view within
the right of way of an abutting public street, or the right to exclude others
from private property?
   E.   Does the action unreasonably interfere with a separately protected and
vested right, such as the right to continue a nonconforming use; the right to
have an application reviewed under the law that was in effect when a complete
application was submitted; legally issued subdivision plat approvals, building
permits, or licenses; or other protected property interests?
   F.   Does the action impose a severe economic burden that is inappropriately
unfair when considered in light of: 1) the burden placed on the property owner;
2) the nature of the government action and benefit; and 3) the property owner's
investment backed expectation?
   G.   Does the action deprive the property owner of all economically viable
use of the property in a situation where the proposed use does not constitute a
nuisance or a severe threat to health and safety?
   H.   Does the action limit the use of private property without substantially
advancing a legitimate public interest?
   I.   Has the county failed to demonstrate by an individualized determination
that any conditions, dedications or exactions imposed as a condition of
approval of development applications place only fair and roughly proportionate
burdens on development, offsetting the burdens that the proposed development
places on public utilities, streets and other services but not imposing
additional burdens on development that the community as a whole should bear?
   J.   Does the action discriminate against property owners, imposing
restrictions or burdens on one property owner that other similarly situated
property owners do not bear? (Ord. 2.20, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
1-9-4: ANALYSES:
If the county determines that a governmental action involves constitutional
taking issues, the proposed action should be reviewed by the county to analyze
the possible taking and to determine the action to be taken. In reviewing the
proposed action, the following factors may be analyzed:
   A.   The affect the potential taking would have on the use or value of the
private property;
   B.   The likelihood that the action may result in a constitutional taking;
   C.   Any alternatives to the proposed action that would fulfill the county's
lawful objectives and reduce the risk of a constitutional taking;
   D.   The cost to the county for payment of compensation if a taking is
determined;
   E.   The governmental interest involved and its nexus to the potential
taking; and
   F.   If the action is roughly proportionate or reasonably related to the
impact of any proposed development. (Ord. 2.20, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
1-9-5: APPEALS:
Any owner of private property whose interest in the property is subject to a
physical or regulatory taking by the county, pursuant to a final and
authoritative decision or action of the county, may appeal the county's
decision or action by filing a written notice of appeal and statement of the
grounds for the appeal in the county clerk's office within thirty (30) days
from the date of the county's decision or action. The board of county
commissioners or its designee shall hear all evidence regarding the appeal and
render its decision and findings in writing within fourteen (14) days from the
date the appeal was filed. If the county fails to hear and decide the appeal
within fourteen (14) days, the county's decision or action is presumed to be
approved. (Ord. 2.20, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
1-9-6: LIMITATIONS:
The guidelines set forth herein are advisory only and shall not be construed to
expand nor limit the scope of the county's liability for a constitutional
taking. The county shall have no legal liability to any person, firm or entity
of any nature whatsoever, and a court may not impose liability upon the county
for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2.20, 5-5-
2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
1-9-7: LEGAL ACTION:
A property owner's failure to appeal the action of the county does not
constitute, and may not be interpreted as constituting, a failure to exhaust
available administrative remedies or as a bar to bringing legal action. (Ord.
2.20, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
SAFETY, RISK MANAGEMENT AND ACCIDENT REVIEW BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Established; Composition
2-1-2: Purpose And Function
2-1-3: Report And Investigation Of Accident
2-1-4: Review And Evaluation
2-1-5: Board Determination
2-1-6: Written Report
2-1-7: Department Head/Supervisor Responsibility
2-1-8: Disciplinary Action
2-1-9: Appeals
2-1-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a safety, risk management accident review board for
the county (hereafter the "board"). This board shall consist of the county
auditor, county sheriff, county attorney, county commissioner's assistant,
county road supervisor and county risk manager, or such person or persons as
designated by any of the foregoing officials and approved by the county
commissioners, or such person as temporarily, from time to time, may be
designated by proxy by any of the foregoing officials who are unable to attend
a board meeting. (Ord. 2.05, 1-27-2003)
2-1-2: PURPOSE AND FUNCTION:
The purposes and functions for which the board is created are as follows:
   A.   Safety: The board shall:
      1.   Periodically review and when necessary recommend changes to the
county safety programs, manuals and training programs;
      2.   Periodically review and inspect county facilities and properties,
including, but not limited to, roads, parks, buildings, equipment, etc., and
make recommendations on changes or improvements thereto in the promotion and
interest of increased safety; and
      3.   Provide all information available to the various department heads
and/or supervisors in the county system.
   B.   Risk Management: The board shall, in addition to the duties provided in
subsection A of this section, make all reviews, inspections, recommendations
and actions which, in the opinion of the board, will reduce and minimize the
risks of injury to persons or property within the county and thereby reduce the
possible exposure to liability on the part of the county to any claims for loss
or damage.
   C.   Accident Review: The board shall review each and every accident
involving county employees and/or equipment and/or facility and shall make
conclusions and recommendations to the board of county commissioners and to the
department head and/or supervisor of the employee, equipment or facility
involved in such accident. (Ord. 2.05, 1-27-2003)
2-1-3: REPORT AND INVESTIGATION OF ACCIDENT:
   A.   Accidents Involving County Vehicles:
      1.   Each accident involving a county vehicle shall be reported to the
local police, sheriff or highway patrol in accordance with Utah Code Annotated.
The accident shall also be investigated by the supervisor of the employee
involved in the accident.
      2.   Each employee involved in an accident with a county vehicle shall as
soon as possible, but no later than forty eight (48) hours thereafter, submit a
signed, detailed report to his or her supervisor on forms to be supplied by the
county. The supervisor shall retain a copy of the report for the department
files and shall, within two (2) working days thereafter, forward the original
report to the civil division of the county attorney's office. The county
attorney's office will submit the accident for consideration by the board.
   B.   Other Accidents: Each and every other type of accident resulting in
injury to person or property involving county employees, property or facilities
or equipment shall immediately be reported to the department supervisor who
shall, within two (2) working days, report the accident to his/her superior and
to the board. (Ord. 2.05, 1-27-2003)
2-1-4: REVIEW AND EVALUATION:
The board shall evaluate the accident and shall consider any or all of the
following information:
   A.   Written evidence presented by the employee involved, the supervisor and
the police report of the accident investigation.
   B.   Maintenance records of the vehicle, equipment and/or facility involved,
or other information available concerning the person or property involved, both
before and after the accident, including estimates of the damage, cost of
repair, and extent of such damage or injury.
   C.   Laboratory tests on vehicle parts, equipment or facilities.
   D.   The past driving record and/or work safety record of all county
employees involved.
   E.   The past maintenance and inspection record on the equipment, facility
or property involved.
   F.   Diagrams, photographs and other evidence.
   G.   Testimony of other drivers and/or witnesses present. (Ord. 2.05, 1-27-
2003)
2-1-5: BOARD DETERMINATION:
The board shall determine, as far as possible, the cause of the accident and
whether the accident was preventable. A "preventable accident" is herein
defined as an accident in which the person involved failed to exercise every
reasonable precaution to prevent the accident either through his/her actions or
through maintenance of property, equipment or facilities of the county. (Ord.
2.05, 1-27-2003)
2-1-6: WRITTEN REPORT:
The board shall prepare and furnish a written report of its findings and
recommendations to the department head of the employee involved in the accident
to implement corrective action, if indicated. The report shall be delivered to
the county commissioners, the employee's department head, the personnel
department, to be placed in the employee's personnel file, and be retained in
the records of the board. A copy of the report shall be given to the employee.
(Ord. 2.05, 1-27-2003)
2-1-7: DEPARTMENT HEAD/SUPERVISOR RESPONSIBILITY:
In the event that the board's findings and recommendations include corrective
measures to be taken by the department head, the department head shall
implement those corrective measures as soon as practical, together with any
other measures or steps such department head deems appropriate pursuant to
county policy. (Ord. 2.05, 1-27-2003)
2-1-8: DISCIPLINARY ACTION:
If the accident involved the violation of established policies associated with
preventing injuries and incurring liability, corrective disciplinary action
shall be taken as soon as practical. Appropriate disciplinary actions may
include loss of driving privileges, required defensive driving courses,
required safety training courses, other reasonable training or educational
measures, reassignment or termination of employment. (Ord. 2.05, 1-27-2003)
2-1-9: APPEALS:
In the event the employee disagrees with the findings of the board or with the
action taken by his or her department head, the employee may file an appeal to
the county commissioners. In order for the appeal to be considered, the appeal
must be in writing and must be filed with the county commissioners within
thirty (30) days of the date on which the employee is provided with a copy of
the report from the board. (Ord. 2.05, 1-27-2003)
TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-1-1: Short Title
3-1-2: Statute Authority
3-1-3: Purpose
3-1-4: Tax Imposed; Interpretation
3-1-5: Adoption And Effect Of State Law
3-1-6: Revenues Exempt From Measurement Of Tax
3-1-7: Severability
3-1-8: Effective Date
3-1-9: Violation; Penalties
3-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF
MILLARD, UTAH. (Ord. 90-08-28, 8-28-1990)
3-1-2: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
The 48th session of the legislature of the state authorized the counties and
municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances imposing a
one percent (1%) sales and use tax. (Ord. 90-08-28, 8-28-1990)
3-1-3: PURPOSE:
The board of county commissioners hereby adopts this chapter to achieve the
purposes listed below, among other enumerated purposes. It directs that the
provisions of this chapter be interpreted in order to accomplish these
objectives:
   A.   To conform the sales and use tax of the county to the Utah sales and
use tax act contained in Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as currently
amended.
   B.   To adopt an ordinance that levies a county sales and use tax, provides
the measure thereof upon which to impose this tax as permitted by state law and
meets the statutory requirements of the state and the administrative procedures
followed by the state tax commission in the administration and collection of
sales and use taxes in the state.
   C.   To authorize and designate the state tax commission as the agent to
collect the tax for the county, upon approval of and subject to the provisions
of any agreement between the county and the state tax commission governing such
collection. (Ord. 90-08-28, 8-28-1990)
3-1-4: TAX IMPOSED; INTERPRETATION:
   A.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the county at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the purchase price paid or charged in such retail sale.
   B.   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other
consumption in the county of tangible personal property from any retailer on or
after the effective date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property.
   C.   For the purpose of this chapter, all retail sales shall be presumed to
have been consummated at the place of business from where the tangible personal
property, services or meals are delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out of state
destination. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business, the
place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be as
determined under the rules and regulations prescribed by and adopted by the
state tax commission. "Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within the
county where public utilities services are rendered, but the place of sale or
the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to the county shall
be as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an appropriate formula
and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it. (Ord. 90-
08-28, 8-28-1990)
3-1-5: ADOPTION AND EFFECT OF STATE LAW:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, and in
force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales
taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, are hereby adopted
and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.
   B.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12 the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of the county shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the county for the word
"state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax
commission, or of the constitution of the state, nor shall the name of the
county be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of
that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the county or
any agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
chapter.
   C.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this chapter. (Ord. 90-08-28, 8-28-1990)
3-1-6: REVENUES EXEMPT FROM MEASUREMENT OF TAX:
There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charge by which the tax
is measured:
   A.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a retailer
or consumer.
   B.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax
has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality and
any county in the state, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by that
county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord. 90-
08-28, 8-28-1990)
3-1-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, any exemption, is for any reason held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter. It is the intention of the county commissioners that
each separate provision of this chapter shall be deemed independent of all
other provisions herein. (Ord. 90-08-28, 8-28-1990)
3-1-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The tax levy imposed by this chapter shall be effective as of one minute after
twelve o'clock (12:01) midnight, January 1, 1990. (Ord. 90-08-28, 8-28-1990)
3-1-9: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 90-08-28, 8-28-1990; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
3-2-1: Short Title
3-2-2: Purpose Of Provisions
3-2-3: Statutes Adopted By Reference
3-2-4: Transient Defined
3-2-5: Tax Imposed
3-2-6: Exclusions
3-2-7: Convention Bureau Special Reserve Fund
3-2-8: Contributions And Donations Permitted
3-2-9: Audits
3-2-10: Remittance Of Tax
3-2-11: County Administrative Review And Tax Commission Adjudication
3-2-12: Penalties And Interest
3-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
The chapter shall be known as the TRANSIENT ROOM TAX ORDINANCE OF MILLARD
COUNTY. (2005 Code)
3-2-2: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
The county commission declares that this chapter is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish these purposes:
   A.   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter
31 and title 59, chapter 12, part 3, as amended;
   B.   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 31 and title 59,
chapter 12, part 3, as amended;
   C.   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that imposes a tax not to
exceed three percent (3%), and provide a measure therefor that can be
administered and collected by the county in a manner that adapts itself as
fully as practical to the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the state tax commission in administering and collecting the sales
and use taxes of the state;
   D.   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will provide funds for the purposes of establishing, financing and
promoting recreational, tourist and convention bureaus and such other purposes
as have been authorized by law for the expenditure of transient room taxes and
for that purpose create, at the discretion of the county, a reserve fund
comprised of any funds collected but not expended during any financial year.
(2005 Code)
3-2-3: STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
All applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 31, and
title 59, chapter 12, part 3, as amended, are hereby incorporated herein and
made a part of this chapter by this reference thereto. (2005 Code)
3-2-4: TRANSIENT DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, the term "transient" means and is defined as
any individual who occupies any suite, room or rooms in a motel, hotel, motor
court, inn or similar public accommodation for fewer than thirty (30)
consecutive days. (2005 Code)
3-2-5: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   There is hereby levied on all persons, companies, corporations or other
like and similar persons, groups or organizations doing business in the county
as motor courts, motels, inns, or like and similar public accommodations, a
transient room tax at the rate of three percent (3%) of the rent for every
occupancy of a suite, room or rooms by a transient.
   B.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 31,
and title 59, chapter 12, part 3, as amended from time to time, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended,
known as the sales and use tax act, and all of the provisions of title 59,
chapter 12, part 2, as amended, known as the local sales and use tax law of
Utah, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set
forth herein to the extent the said provisions are relevant and pertinent to
the administration and the collection of taxes by the county.
   C.   Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of Millard County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in
this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the
county for the word "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the
state tax commission, or of the constitution of the state of Utah.
   D.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section but a copy of such license shall be provided to the
county within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof. (2005 Code)
3-2-6: EXCLUSIONS:
There shall be excluded from the rent paid or charged by which the tax is
measured:
   A.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state or by any other
governmental agency upon a retailer or consumer;
   B.   Receipts from the sale or service charge for any food or beverage or
room service charges in conjunction with the occupancy of the suite, room or
rooms. (2005 Code)
3-2-7: CONVENTION BUREAU SPECIAL RESERVE FUND:
For the purposes authorized by this chapter, there is hereby created a reserve
fund, to be known as the convention bureau special reserve fund, which shall be
maintained separate and apart from general and other special funds of the
county, and in which shall be deposited any and all funds collected by virtue
of the tax imposed hereby but not expended during the fiscal year. (2005 Code)
3-2-8: CONTRIBUTIONS AND DONATIONS PERMITTED:
The county executive is authorized to accept, on behalf of the county, funds
contributed, donated or supplied by any person, corporation, other governmental
agency, or from any other source whatever, for the purposes outlined in section
3-2-2 of this chapter, and, when such funds are received, they shall be
deposited and used in the same manner as though they were derived from the tax
imposed hereby. (2005 Code)
3-2-9: AUDITS:
Any records, tax returns or other information of any person, corporation,
company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this
chapter which relate to the calculation, collection or remittance to the county
of said taxes, shall be subject to review, inspection and auditing by the
county. Audits of such records and information or the support records therefor
shall be the responsibility of the state tax commission. The records of the
state tax commission relating to the collection of sales and use taxes, or
tourism, recreation and convention center taxes on the same transactions which
are the subject of this tax shall be subject to review and audit as provided in
the county's contract with the state tax commission for the collection of the
local sales and use tax and as provided by law. The taxpayer shall also be
subject to such audits and reviews by the state tax commission as are provided
for by law. (2005 Code)
3-2-10: REMITTANCE OF TAX:
The tax shall be remitted as directed by the county and tax return filed on
forms provided or approved by the county at such times and with such frequency
as are provided for by state law. All returns filed pursuant hereto shall
accurately identify the locations where the transactions occurred and the gross
sales upon which the tax for each location is computed. (2005 Code)
3-2-11: COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW AND TAX COMMISSION ADJUDICATION:
Any party aggrieved by any action of the county relating to the assessment,
calculation or collection of the tax, including any notice of deficiency issued
by the county, may request a hearing by filing a written request for hearing
with the county clerk no later than thirty (30) days after the effective date
of the county's action or the date of issuance of the notice of deficiency. The
decision of the county shall be referred by the county to the state tax
commission for adjudication upon receipt of a written request received within
thirty (30) days of the county's decision. (2005 Code)
3-2-12: PENALTIES AND INTEREST:
Any person who fails to file any tax return or information required by this
chapter, who fails to pay any tax due hereunder, or who fails to timely pay
such tax, shall be subject to the imposition of penalties and interest by the
county in accordance with Utah Code Annotated sections 59-1-401 and 59-1-402,
or any successor provision thereto. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DELINQUENT REAL PROPERTY TAX SALES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose; Compliance With Provisions
3-3-2: Tax Sales Authorized
3-3-3: Redemption Rights And Procedures
3-3-4: Bidding Procedures And Restrictions
3-3-5: Criteria For Accepting Or Rejecting Bids
3-3-6: Sale Ratification
3-3-7: Sales Not Requiring Bids
3-3-8: Recording Tax Deeds
3-3-9: Payment Methods And Procedures
3-3-10: Contesting Bids And Sales
3-3-11: Striking Properties To County
3-3-12: Withdrawal Of Properties For Sale
3-3-13: County Disclaimers
3-3-1: PURPOSE; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
In order to facilitate the sale of properties certified for final tax sale and
to provide consistency of procedure when, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 59-2-1351.1, the county auditor conducts the final tax sale, the sale
shall be conducted in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 3.65, 4-7-1997, eff.
4-28-1997)
3-3-2: TAX SALES AUTHORIZED:
At the time specified in the notice of final tax sale as prescribed under Utah
Code Annotated section 59-2-1351, as amended, the county auditor shall offer
for sale and sell all such real estate for which an acceptable bid is made.
(Ord. 3.65, 4-7-1997, eff. 4-28-1997)
3-3-3: REDEMPTION RIGHTS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Property may be redeemed on behalf of the record owner by any person at
any time prior to the tax sale following the lapse of four (4) years from the
date the property tax became delinquent.
   B.   A person may redeem property by paying to the county treasurer all
delinquent taxes, interest, penalties and administrative costs that have
accrued on the property.
   C.   If two (2) or more persons own a piece of property on which a
delinquency exists, any owner may redeem the owner's interest in the property
upon payment of that portion of the taxes, interest, penalties and
administrative costs which the owner's interest bears to the whole, as
determined by the board of county commissioners.
   D.   Where the record owner is deceased, the property may be redeemed and
all documents issued in the name of the personal representative or
administrator of the estate. If the estate of the deceased owner has not yet
been probated, the delinquent taxes may be paid in the name of the deceased
record owner. No redemption certificate will be issued until a personal
representative or administrator for the estate has been appointed.
   E.   If any property is redeemed, the county treasurer shall make the proper
entry in the record of tax sales filed in the treasurer's office and issue a
certificate of redemption, which is prima facie evidence of the redemption, and
may be recorded in the office of the county recorder without acknowledgment.
(Ord. 3.65, 4-7-1997, eff. 4-28-1997)
3-3-4: BIDDING PROCEDURES AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Bidding Required: Any party wishing to bid on property offered for sale
may bid, in person, or through an authorized agent, an amount of not less than
the tax, penalty, interest and costs as determined by the county treasurer. In
the event that more than one bid is made, upon completion of the bidding, the
property will be awarded to the successful bidder. Funds must then immediately
be deposited by the successful bidder with the county treasurer in the amount
equal to the bid price at the time the bid is accepted.
   B.   Bidding Not Permitted: If a bidder is the record owner of the property,
or an agent of the record owner, or a contract buyer, no competitive bidding
will be permitted. An agent shall include a personal representative or
administrator, mortgage holder or trustee under a trust deed. In the event that
a bid is made by such person, the property will be redeemed in the name of the
record owner.
   C.   Collusive Bidding Prohibited: Collusive bidding is prohibited.
"Collusive bidding" is defined as any agreement or understanding reached by two
(2) or more parties that changes the bids the parties would otherwise offer
absent the agreement or understanding.
   D.   Conflict Of Interest; Disclosure Requirements:
      1.   No employee of any county office connected with the tax sale may bid
on or benefit from property offered for sale, directly or indirectly, except
where the employee is the record owner, an heir or personal representative of a
deceased record owner or an abutting property owner.
      2.   Where a business associate or relative of an employee of any county
office connected with the tax sale desires to participate in the tax sale,
complete written disclosure of any relationships that might create the
appearance of a conflict of interest must be made prior to the sale. (Ord.
3.65, 4-7-1997, eff. 4-28-1997)
3-3-5: CRITERIA FOR ACCEPTING OR REJECTING BIDS:
   A.   Accepted Bids:
      1.   The following bids may be accepted:
         a.   The highest bid amount for the entire parcel of property. A bid
may not be accepted for an amount which is insufficient to pay the taxes,
penalties, interest and administrative costs; or
         b.   A bid in an amount sufficient to pay the taxes, penalties,
interest and administrative costs, for less than the entire parcel.
      2.   The accepted bid shall be the bid of the bidder who will pay the
full amount of the taxes, penalties, interest and administrative costs for the
smallest portion of the entire parcel.
      3.   If the bid accepted is for less than the entire parcel, the auditor
shall note the fact, with a description of the property covered by the bid, and
the balance of the parcel not affected by the bid shall be considered to have
been redeemed by the owner.
      4.   The board of county commissioners may find that none of the bids are
acceptable.
   B.   Rejected Bids: The county auditor at the tax sale or the board of
county commissioners following the tax sale shall reject a bid to purchase a
strip of property around the entire perimeter of the parcel, a bid to purchase
a strip of the parcel which would prevent access to the remainder of the parcel
by the redemptive owner, or a bid which would otherwise unreasonably diminish
the value of that remainder. (Ord. 3.65, 4-7-1997, eff. 4-28-1997)
3-3-6: SALE RATIFICATION:
All accepted bids will be submitted to the board of county commissioners for
ratification. (Ord. 3.65, 4-7-1997, eff. 4-28-1997)
3-3-7: SALES NOT REQUIRING BIDS:
Parcels meeting the following criteria shall be sold without competitive
bidding as an entire parcel only:
   A.   The parcel has been determined not to be an economically viable unit of
property to other than a preferential interest based upon consideration of such
characteristics as size, shape, access, zoning, or other factors that may
affect the economic value and use of the parcel.
   B.   A nonpreference sale of the parcel would create a nuisance and/or cloud
upon an existing interest in the property and could unreasonably diminish the
value of such an interest.
   C.   Priority of preference.
      1.   First priority is given to any possessory interest.
      2.   If no possessory interest exists, priority is given to abutting
property owners.
      3.   If there is a conflict between two (2) or more possessory interests
or two (2) or more abutting property owners, the auditor may direct that the
property be bid as between the two (2) conflicting possessory interests. (Ord.
3.65, 4-7-1997, eff. 4-28-1997)
3-3-8: RECORDING TAX DEEDS:
   A.   Upon payment, the county treasurer will issue a temporary receipt.
Within sixty (60) days of the date of the sale, upon verification of funds
received, and after approval of all sales by the board of county commissioners,
and after recordation, the county auditor will mail the tax deed to the name
and address listed on the bid sheet. Deeds issued by the county auditor shall
recite the following:
      1.   The total amount of all the delinquent taxes, penalties, interest
and administrative costs which were paid for the execution and delivery of the
deed;
      2.   The year for which the property was assessed, the year the property
became delinquent, and the year the property was subject to tax sale;
      3.   A full description of the property; and
      4.   The name of the grantee.
   B.   When the deed is executed and delivered by the auditor, it shall be
prima facie evidence of the regularity of all proceedings subsequent to the
date the taxes initially became delinquent and of the conveyance of the
property to the grantee in fee simple.
   C.   The deed issued by the county auditor under this section shall be
recorded by the county recorder.
   D.   The fee for the recording shall be included in the administrative costs
of the sale. (Ord. 3.65, 4-7-1997, eff. 4-28-1997)
3-3-9: PAYMENT METHODS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Redemptions: For redemptions after the date of certification for sale,
all amounts due must be paid in full. For post certification redemptions, an
administrative fee is added to delinquencies.
   B.   Purchased Property: When all property has been bid and sold, purchasers
must remit the full amount bid for the purchase. In the event that a bidder is
unable to produce the total amount at that time, his/her bid shall be
considered null and void and the property shall be returned to the auditor for
resale. (Ord. 3.65, 4-7-1997, eff. 4-28-1997)
3-3-10: CONTESTING BIDS AND SALES:
Any person wishing to contest any action taken in conjunction with the tax sale
must file a written protest with the board of county commissioners within ten
(10) days after the date of the tax sale. The board of county commissioners
will not grant hearings for purposes of contesting a bid or sale, but will
instead render a decision based upon all information following a review of
submissions. The board may award the property to one of the bidders, reject all
bids and order it reoffered for sale, or upon a finding that it is in the best
public interest, withdraw the property from the sale. (Ord. 3.65, 4-7-1997,
eff. 4-28-1997)
3-3-11: STRIKING PROPERTIES TO COUNTY:
   A.   Any property offered for sale for which there is no purchaser and which
it is not in the public interest to withdraw and recertify to a subsequent sale
shall be struck off to the county by the county auditor, who shall then:
      1.   Publicly declare substantially as follows: "All property here
offered for sale which has not been struck off to a private purchaser is hereby
struck off and sold to the county of Millard, and I hereby declare the fee
simple title of the property to be vested in the county";
      2.   Make an endorsement opposite each of the entries in the delinquency
tax sale record described in Utah Code Annotated section 59-2-1338
substantially as follows: "The fee simple title in the property described in
this entry in the year of        sold and conveyed to the county of Millard in
payment of general taxes charged to the property"; and
      3.   Sign the auditor's name to the record.
   B.   The fee simple title shall then vest in the county. (Ord. 3.65, 4-7-
1997, eff. 4-28-1997)
3-3-12: WITHDRAWAL OF PROPERTIES FOR SALE:
Property having title, description, or other deficiencies, or property for
which it is found to be in the best interest of the public to withdraw it from
sale may be withdrawn from a tax sale. Property so withdrawn from such sale may
be recertified to subsequent sale if the cause of the original withdrawal has
been remedied. Recertification must be approved or ratified in writing by the
board of county commissioners. (Ord. 3.65, 4-7-1997, eff. 4-28-1997)
3-3-13: COUNTY DISCLAIMERS:
Properties sold during the tax sale shall be conveyed by tax deed. This form of
deed is not a warranty deed. The county makes no representations as to the
title conveyed nor as to the purchaser's right of possession of the property.
Similarly, the county makes no warranties or representations as to whether the
property is buildable or developable, nor does the county make any
representations regarding whether the property complies with applicable zoning
regulations. The county does not warrant or represent that any property
purchased during the tax sale is habitable or in any particular condition. The
county also makes no warranties or representations regarding the accuracy of
the assessment of the property or the accuracy of the description of the real
estate or improvements therein. (Ord. 3.65, 4-7-1997, eff. 4-28-1997)
CHAPTER 4
TAX STABILITY AND TRUST FUND
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Fund Established; Constitution Of Fund
3-4-3: Administration Of Fund
3-4-4: Maximum Amount In Fund
3-4-5: Election For Use Of Funds
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
The board of county commissioners recognizes that a substantial part of the tax
base of the county is and will be based upon energy related growth. Further,
the board realizes that such tax base will gradually decrease through
depreciation, obsolescence, and depletion, leaving a tax base which will make
it difficult to generate enough tax revenue for the carrying out of the usual
and necessary governmental function of this county. Therefore, this chapter is
enacted and titled the MILLARD COUNTY TAX STABILITY AND TRUST FUND ORDINANCE.
(1988 Code § 3.20.010)
3-4-2: FUND ESTABLISHED; CONSTITUTION OF FUND:
There is hereby established a tax stability and trust fund from tax revenues
pursuant to the tax stability and trust fund act. Said fund is subject to all
limitations and restrictions imposed by Utah Code Annotated sections 51-7-
1 through 51-7-24, as amended. In establishing the tax rate for the property
tax levied by the county, the board of county commissioners may set the annual
tax rate at a level not to exceed .0001 more than the county tax rate from the
previous year which will permit the county to receive during the fiscal years
revenues in excess of what may be required to provide for all other lawful
purposes of the county. Any excess revenues so received are to be transferred
from the county general fund into the county tax stability and trust fund.
(1988 Code § 3.20.020; amd. 2005 Code)
3-4-3: ADMINISTRATION OF FUND:
   A.   All amounts in the tax stability and trust fund may be deposited or
invested. Under the state money management act, the county treasurer may
transfer these amounts to the state treasurer for his management and control.
   B.   The interest or other income realized from the amounts in the tax
stability and trust fund may be returned to the general fund of the county
during the fiscal year in which the income or interest is paid to the extent
the interest or income is required by the county to provide for its purposes
during the fiscal year. Any amounts so returned may be used for all purposes as
other amounts in the general fund are used. Any interest or income not so
returned to the county general fund shall be added to the principal of the
county tax stability and trust fund. (1988 Code § 3.20.030)
3-4-4: MAXIMUM AMOUNT IN FUND:
   A.   The total amount in the tax stability and trust fund shall be limited
to the percentage of the total taxable value of property in the county, up to,
but not in excess of, the maximum limits provided in the following schedule:
 
Total Taxable Value       Fund Limits Percentage Of Taxable But Not To Exceed:
                          Value
Less than $500,000,000.00 1.6%                              $ 5,000,000.00
$500,000,000.00 to        1.0%                              7,500,000.00
$1,500,000,000.00
Over $1,500,000,000.00    0.5%                              15,000,000.00
 
   B.   If any excess occurs in the tax stability and trust fund over the
percentage or maximum dollar amounts specified herein, the excess shall be
transferred to the general fund of the county and may be used for all purposes
as other amounts in the general fund are used. (1988 Code § 3.20.040)
3-4-5: ELECTION FOR USE OF FUNDS:
If the board of county commissioners determines that it is necessary to use any
portion of the principal of the tax stability and trust fund, the board shall
submit this proposition to the electorate of the county in an election called
and held in the manner provided for in the state municipal bond act for the
holding of bond elections. If a majority of the qualified voters approve the
proposition, then that portion of the principal of the fund covered by the
proposition may be transferred to the county general fund for use for the
purposes of the county. (1988 Code § 3.20.050)
CHAPTER 5
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY RESPONSE EXPENSE RECOVERY
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Liability For Costs; Billing And Payment
3-5-3: Determination Of Responsible Party; Notice And Appeals
3-5-4: Action To Recover Costs
3-5-5: Expenses Of Other Responding Entities
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the following meanings:
EXPENSES: All costs incurred for the response, containment and/or removal and
disposal of hazardous materials on initial remedial action. It includes, but is
not necessarily limited to, the actual labor costs of government and other
personnel, including workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead and any costs of equipment, equipment operation,
materials, disposal and any contract labor or materials.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY: A sudden and unexpected release of any substance
that, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, presents a direct and immediate threat to public
safety or the environment and requires immediate action to mitigate the threat.
(Ord. 7.50, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
3-5-2: LIABILITY FOR COSTS; BILLING AND PAYMENT:
   A.   Those persons or entities whose negligent or intentional actions cause
or create, in whole or in part, a hazardous materials emergency within the
boundaries of the county are liable to the county for all costs and expenses
incurred in or arising from response to such hazardous materials emergency by
the county and any other political subdivision, agency or cooperative entity.
The county shall recover all such costs and expenses, including reasonable
attorney fees, litigation expenses and court costs incurred in, related to or
arising out of all cost recovery efforts and enforcement of the terms of this
chapter.
   B.   All costs and expenses shall be billed at the current rate recommended
by resolution of the executive committee of the interlocal agreement for
cooperative hazardous materials protection and services, or at the rate set by
the board of county commissioners in its discretion.
   C.   The payment of expenses under this section does not constitute an
admission of liability or negligence in any legal action for damages. (Ord.
7.50, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
3-5-3: DETERMINATION OF RESPONSIBLE PARTY; NOTICE AND APPEALS:
   A.   The county shall investigate and determine the person or entity
responsible for causing or creating the hazardous materials emergency and shall
notify the responsible party in writing of said determination of responsibility
and the amount of costs and expenses incurred by the county in responding to
the hazardous materials emergency.
   B.   The notice required by subsection A of this section shall specify that
the party determined to be responsible for causing or creating the hazardous
materials emergency has the right to appeal the decision determining
responsibility to the board of county commissioners and shall specify a
deadline for filing the notice of appeal and the person or office in which it
must be filed. The deadline for filing the notice of appeal shall not be less
than fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice.
   C.   In the event a notice of appeal is filed, the hearing before the board
of county commissioners shall be an informal public hearing, and the parties
shall not be required to adhere to the Utah rules of civil procedure or
evidence. The appealing party and the county shall each be entitled to present
evidence and argument in support of their respective positions, in accordance
with procedures established at the hearing by the board of county
commissioners.
   D.   The decision of the county commissioners shall be final. (Ord. 7.50, 5-
5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
3-5-4: ACTION TO RECOVER COSTS:
In the event the responsible party fails or refuses to pay all of the costs and
expenses determined by the county related to or arising out of the county's
response to the hazardous materials emergency within thirty (30) days after
assessment or after the county commissioner's decision on an appeal, the county
may initiate a legal action to recover such costs, including reasonable
attorney fees and costs. (Ord. 7.50, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
3-5-5: EXPENSES OF OTHER RESPONDING ENTITIES:
   A.   In the event that personnel and equipment from other political
subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities shall respond to assist with the
hazardous materials emergency, then the county shall recover costs and expenses
incurred by such other political subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities
as part of county's cost recovery efforts.
   B.   Upon recovery of costs and expenses from the responsible party, the
county is authorized to reimburse such other political subdivisions, agencies
or cooperative entities for their actual costs incurred in responding to the
hazardous materials emergency. (Ord. 7.50, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title; Purpose
4-1-2: Scope
4-1-3: Definitions
4-1-4: Administrative And Enforcement Officials
4-1-5: License Required; Nonexclusive
4-1-6: Application For License
4-1-7: Referral Of Application To Proper Authorities
4-1-8: Investigation And Inspection Of Applicant
4-1-9: Approval Or Denial Of License
4-1-10: License Fees
4-1-11: Combination License
4-1-12: Licenses For Branch Establishments
4-1-13: Certificate Of License
4-1-14: Transfer Of License
4-1-15: Rules And Regulations
4-1-16: Sales Of Medicines
4-1-17: Inspections And Samples
4-1-18: Denial, Nonrenewal Or Revocation Of License
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE; PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known as the GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING ORDINANCE OF
MILLARD COUNTY. The principal purpose of this chapter is to regulate various
businesses, business activities, and to raise revenues therefrom. (1988 Code §
4.01.010)
4-1-2: SCOPE:
   A.   The conditions of this chapter, unless specifically stated otherwise,
shall apply to all businesses in the unincorporated areas of the county. (1988
Code §§ 4.01.020, 4.08.090)
   B.   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in
any way impair, or interfere with existing provisions of other laws,
ordinances, or other provisions of this code, except those specifically
repealed by this code.
   C.   Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon persons,
premises, or personal property than is imposed or required by such existing
provisions of law, the provisions of this chapter shall control. (1988 Code §
4.01.020)
4-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
All words in this chapter, unless specifically stated otherwise, shall have
their normal definitions and usage. For the purposes of this chapter, the
following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings
given herein:
BUSINESS: Means and includes all activities, except farming, engaged in within
the county for the purpose of gain or economic profit. The acts of employees
rendering service to employers shall not be included in the term "business"
unless otherwise specifically provided.
EACH SEPARATE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate establishment or place of
operation, whether or not operating under the same name, within the county,
including a home or other place of lodging if the same is held out by
advertisements, listing, or otherwise as the establishment or place of
operation of a person engaging in business.
EMPLOYEE: The operator, owner or manager of a place of business, and any
persons employed by such person in the operation of said place of business in
any capacity, and also any salesman or agent engaged in the operation of the
place of business in any capacity.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Includes, but is not limited to, the sale of tangible
personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or
property and the rendering of personal services for others for a consideration
by persons engaging in any profession, trade, craft, business, occupation, or
other calling, except the rendering of personal services by an employee to his
employer under any contract of personal employment.
PREMISES: Includes all lands, structures, places, and also the equipment and
appurtenances connected or used therewith in any business, and also any
personal property which is either affixed to or is otherwise used in connection
with any business conducted on such premises. (1988 Code § 4.01.030)
4-1-4: ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Ex Officio License Deputies: The sheriff and all deputy sheriffs, the
building inspector, the health inspectors, and the county attorney and his
deputies are appointed ex officio license deputies. As their duty demands, they
are authorized and empowered to examine all places of business subject to the
licensing requirements of this chapter to see that such businesses are carried
on in accordance with this chapter and any other applicable ordinance. They are
to report immediately to the county clerk the names of any persons doing
business without a license, and all instances of the conduct of any business
that is outside the scope of the license issued to said persons. (1988 Code §
4.01.070)
   B.   Board Of License Equalization:
      1.   County Commissioners Serve As; Authority: The board of county
commissioners is hereby constituted as the board of license equalization for
the equalization of license rates. The board shall have authority to examine
the license fees, to hear complaints of person aggrieved by their license
assessments and to make changes in any assessments the board concludes to be
illegal, unequal, or unjust. Corrections made by the board shall be entered in
detail in the record of the license assessment kept by the county clerk, and
the board shall approve in writing said entries before the adjustment of
accounts. (1988 Code § 4.04.010)
      2.   Meetings: The board shall meet at least twice yearly. The first
meeting shall be held not earlier than the second Monday in January of each
year, and the board shall continue in session from time to time until the
business of equalization under this chapter is disposed of, but not later than
the second Monday of February of each year. The second meeting shall be held
during the month of July of each year, commencing not earlier than July 5, and
the board shall continue in session as herein provided until the business of
equalization under this chapter is disposed of, but not later than July 31 of
the same year. (1988 Code § 4.04.020)
      3.   Limitation On Complaints: All complaints relative to assessment made
subsequent to July 1 and before January 1 of the following year, must be
presented to the board within the period of the first meeting of the board or
be forever barred; all complaints relating to assessments made subsequent to
January 1 and before July 1 must be presented to the board within the period of
the second meeting as herein provided or be forever barred. (1988 Code §
4.04.030)
   C.   County Attorney: It shall be the duty of the county attorney to
prepare, bring and prosecute the civil actions contemplated by this chapter
upon the commissioner's written request. (1988 Code § 4.16.040)
4-1-5: LICENSE REQUIRED; NONEXCLUSIVE:
   A.   License Required: Unless exempted by state or federal law, it is
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in, carry on, or operate
any business within the jurisdiction of the county without first making
application for and obtaining a license from the county for such business.
(1988 Code § 4.01.040)
   B.   Provisions Not Exclusive: The general business license required under
this chapter is in addition to all other licenses and permits required by other
ordinance provisions. No person shall engage in business without first
procuring the necessary licenses and permits that are required by other
provisions of this code, in addition to the license required by this chapter.
(1988 Code § 4.08.140)
4-1-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for licenses shall be made in writing and submitted to the
county clerk upon a prepared form obtained from the county clerk's office. The
county clerk shall approve the license application. Each license application
shall be accompanied by the license fee required to be paid for the issuance of
the license desired, and each application shall show the following:
   A.   The name and address of the person desiring a license. If the applicant
is a copartnership, the names and addresses of the partners, and if a
corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors.
   B.   The kind of license desired, stating the business to be performed,
practiced or carried on.
   C.   The class of license desired, if such licenses are divided into
classes.
   D.   The location or place where the business is to be established.
   E.   The period of time for which such license is to be issued.
   F.   The approval from the building inspector, sheriff, or the county
planning commission as specified by this chapter.
   G.   Contractors must list state contractor's license number and furnish a
photocopy of current state contractor's license.
   H.   Name of business agent to receive any official notices in the event the
owner or owners are absent.
   I.   Such other facts and information as may be required by this chapter,
the statutes of the state and the commissioners.
   J.   The current sales tax identification number for all businesses required
to collect and remit sales taxes.
   K.   The official seal of the county. (1988 Code §§ 4.08.010, 4.08.020)
4-1-7: REFERRAL OF APPLICATION TO PROPER AUTHORITIES:
   A.   Prior to the issuance of any license, the applicant must obtain the
approval, manifested by signature on the license application, of one or more of
the following the county officers or departments:
      1.   Building inspector.
      2.   County sheriff.
      3.   County planning commission.
      4.   Health inspector.
      5.   Any other officer that may be named hereafter.
   B.   The applicant will be directed upon request to the applicable officer
(s) or department(s) by the county clerk.
   C.   If it is not apparent to the clerk or other officer to which department
the applicant should be referred, the question will be presented before the
board of county commissioners at its next regular meeting. (1988 Code §
4.08.030)
4-1-8: INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Investigation And Inspection: Within thirty (30) days after receipt of
an application for a license, an investigation and inspection shall be made by
the proper body for the purpose of ascertaining the general reputation or
character of the person making the application, or directly interested therein;
the general reputation of those who patronize said business; the nature or kind
of applicant's business; whether such place will be, or has been, conducted in
a lawful, quiet, orderly, and helpful manner; the conditions of health and
safety of such premises, together with any other fact or facts which should be
known in acting upon the application. (1988 Code § 4.08.040)
   B.   Report: After proper investigation and inspection has been made as
provided for in subsection A of this section and within thirty (30) days after
receiving such a request from the county commissioners, a report on such
investigation and inspection, together with recommendation as to whether the
license should be granted or denied, shall be made by the proper county
official and certified to the commissioners. (1988 Code § 4.08.050)
4-1-9: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Action By Commissioners: After the receipt of the application is signed
by the appropriate officers or departments, and the report provided for in
subsection 4-1-8B of this chapter, the commissioners shall act upon said
application as it deems just and proper in approving or denying same. The
commissioners may request or order additional information or investigation if
such is required in the opinion of the commissioners. (1988 Code § 4.08.060)
   B.   Issuance Of License: In the event the commissioners shall approve any
application for a license, such approval shall be endorsed on the application
and signed by the chairman of the commissioners and forwarded to the county
clerk, who shall forthwith issue a license certificate. (1988 Code § 4.08.070)
   C.   Denial Of License:
      1.   The commissioners may deny a license or a license renewal if the
applicant:
         a.   Has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude;
         b.   Has obtained a license by fraud or deceit;
         c.   Has failed to pay personal property taxes or other required taxes
or fees; or
         d.   Has violated the laws of the state, the United States government,
the ordinances of the county, or the rules and regulations of any the county or
state agency governing the operation of the business holding the license or
permit.
      2.   In the event the county commissioners shall deny any application for
a license, the reason therefor shall be endorsed on the application by the
clerk of the county commissioners, and the county clerk shall return the
application to the applicant forthwith, together with notice that said
applicant may appear before the county commissioners for the purpose of
presenting reasons for setting aside such denial. If the applicant makes such
appearance and presents adequate justification, the commissioners may, in their
discretion, set aside the denial and approve the application. (1988 Code §
4.08.080)
4-1-10: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Minimum Fee; Term Of License: The minimum fee for a general business
license required hereunder shall be as established by the county commissioners.
The annual license period shall commence on January 1 and run through December
31. (1988 Code § 4.08.100; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Prorating Fees: All business licenses issued after the expiration of
the current license year shall be prorated by quarter and the fee paid for each
quarter or fraction thereof during which the business has been or will be
conducted, according to the following schedule. When new businesses commence
operation:
      1.   On or after April 1, but prior to July 1, the fee shall be three-
fourths (3/4) of the annual fee.
      2.   On or after July 1, but prior to October 1, the fee shall be one-
half (1/2) of the annual fee;
      3.   On or after October 1, but prior to December 31, the fee shall be
one-fourth (1/4) of the annual fee. (1988 Code § 4.08.110)
   C.   Waiver Of Fee: The commissioners may waive the license fees imposed by
this section for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Inability to pay the required fee due to some serious misfortune or
physical disability.
      2.   The fee, if imposed, would be an unfair duplication of other
existing fees or taxes.
      3.   The fee would have an unduly harsh or seriously oppressive effect on
the business in question. (1988 Code § 4.08.090)
   D.   Refunds: Once the license has been granted or issued by the county, no
license fee, or any part thereof, shall be refunded for any reason, except upon
order of the board of license equalization. (1988 Code § 4.08.150)
   E.   Payment Of Fee; Delinquencies:
      1.   All license renewal fees provided for in this chapter shall be paid
annually in advance by the licensee to the county clerk's office on or before
the date when the license expires.
      2.   The county clerk shall mail to all licensees in the county, three
(3) weeks prior to the date of such expiration, a statement of the time of
expiration of the license held by the licensee. Failure to send out such notice
or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not, however, excuse the
licensee from failure to obtain a new license, or a renewal thereof, nor shall
it be a defense in any action, civil or criminal, for operation without a
license.
      3.   In the event renewal fees are not received at the office of the
license official within thirty (30) days after the day when due, the licensee
must reapply for a business license and pay a penalty of twenty five percent
(25%) of the fees due as part of the reissuance fee. In the event the renewal
fees are not received at the office of the license official by sixty (60) days
after the day when due, the licensee must reapply for a business license and
pay a penalty of one hundred percent (100%) of the fee due as part of the
reissuance fee. (1988 Code § 4.16.010)
   F.   Failure To Obtain License; Penalty Fee: Any applicant who has commenced
doing business prior to obtaining a valid license shall be assessed a penalty
fee of twenty five percent (25%) of the regular license fee. Said penalty fee
shall be in addition to the regular license fee. (1988 Code § 4.16.020)
   G.   Civil Action To Recover Fee: In all cases where business license fees
have not been paid in the time and manner as dictated by this chapter, a civil
action may be brought in the name of the county against the licensee. Such
action may be brought in any court having jurisdiction in order to recover the
amount of the fee and any penalties which may attach, and/or to enjoin further
operation by the licensee. In any case where several amounts for business
licenses shall remain due and unpaid by any person, such several amounts of
unpaid licenses may be joined as separate causes of action in the same
complaint in such civil cases. (1988 Code § 4.16.030)
   H.   Check Or Bond Not Honored; License Invalid: Any license which has been
issued pursuant to payment by check or bond shall be void and of no force or
effect if such check or bond is not honored. (1988 Code § 4.08.160)
4-1-11: COMBINATION LICENSE:
   A.   Combination License Permitted: Where two (2) or more types of duly
licensed businesses are conducted within a single establishment by the same
person, a combination license may be issued therefor.
   B.   Application And Fee: One application shall be filed and one application
fee paid for such combination license, and the license certificate shall
enumerate the various types of businesses for which such combination license is
issued.
   C.   License Fee: The annual fee for such combination licenses shall be the
same as the minimum fee, as set forth in subsection 4-1-10A of this chapter.
Any additional fee required by either business shall be added to the minimum
fee.
   D.   Combining With Special Licenses Prohibited: The sale of alcoholic
beverages or any other product or service requiring a special license under
this title shall not be considered a combination license. (1988 Code §
4.08.120)
4-1-12: LICENSES FOR BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or location
of business engaged in business within the county as if such branch
establishment or location were a separate business, and each license shall
authorize the licensee to engage only in the business licensed thereby at the
location or in the manner designated in such license; provided, that warehouses
and distributing places used in connection with or incident to a business
licensed under this title shall not be deemed to be separate places of business
or branch establishments. (1988 Code § 4.08.130)
4-1-13: CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: Every certificate of license shall bear upon its face the
following:
      1.   The name of the person to whom the certificate has been issued.
      2.   The amount paid for such license.
      3.   The kind of license and the class of such license, if such licenses
are divided into classes.
      4.   The term of the license with the commencing date and the date of its
expiration.
      5.   The place or places where such business is to be carried on.
      6.   The signature of the chairman of the county commissioners, attested
to by the county clerk. (1988 Code § 4.12.020)
   B.   Posting Of Certificates; Expired Certificates:
      1.   It is the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
county to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the
business premises.
      2.   When such certificates of license have expired, the licensee shall
remove the same from the place in which it has been posted.
      3.   No certificate of license which is not in force and effect shall be
permitted to remain posted on the wall or any part of the place of business
after the period of such certificate of license has expired. (1988 Code §
4.12.030)
   C.   Misuse Of Certificates Prohibited:
      1.   Counterfeit Certificates: It shall be unlawful to counterfeit a
license certificate or to deface or mutilate the same while it is required to
be posted in the licensed premises.
      2.   Unlawful Use: It is unlawful to use, or permit to be used, any
license certificate in any location other than the place of business designated
on the license. (1988 Code § 4.12.040)
4-1-14: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   Nontransferability Generally:
      1.   No license granted or issued under the provisions of this chapter is
assignable or transferable, nor does it authorize any person other than the
person therein mentioned or named to do business.
      2.   A license does not authorize any other business than is therein
mentioned or named to be done or transacted.
   B.   Change Of Location: Except as hereinafter provided, any person who has
been licensed to carry on any business at a definite location in the county may
make application to transfer the location of said business by filing with the
county clerk. The county commissioners, after receiving reports furnished by
the county clerk, may, in their discretion, deny or grant the transfer of any
or all of the said business licenses. (1988 Code § 4.01.050)
4-1-15: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Rules and regulations covering the health, safety, morals, peace, good order,
comfort and convenience of the general public with respect to any type of
business covered under this title shall be adopted as deemed necessary by the
commissioners. Copies of such rules and regulations shall be made available to
and displayed by the licensee affected thereby in a conspicuous place upon the
licensed premises. (1988 Code §§ 4.01.080, 4.12.010)
4-1-16: SALES OF MEDICINES:
It shall be unlawful to peddle or offer for sale in any place but a duly
licensed business establishment, any medicine, nostrum, or remedy of any
character or description, and no license shall be issued for such purpose. This
shall not apply to the sale of medicines, nostrums, or remedies, packaged or
labeled in compliance with the requirements of the federal food, drug and
cosmetic act and regulations thereunder, and similarly applicable laws and
regulations of the state. (1988 Code § 4.01.060)
4-1-17: INSPECTIONS AND SAMPLES:
   A.   Periodic Inspections: After issuance of the license required by this
chapter, periodic inspections will be made of the licensed establishment to
ensure the continued compliance by the licensee with the standards and
regulations found herein. (1988 Code § 4.16.050)
   B.   Authorized Inspectors: The following persons are authorized to conduct
inspections in the manner prescribed herein:
      1.   County building inspector.
      2.   County sheriff or any of his deputies.
      3.   Health inspector.
      4.   County clerk.
      5.   County attorney.
      6.   Any other official of the county as appointed by the county
commissioners. (1988 Code § 4.16.060)
   C.   Authority Of Inspectors: All persons authorized herein to inspect
licensees and businesses shall have the authority, with or without a search
warrant, to enter and inspect at all reasonable times, the following
businesses, or portions thereof, which are open to the public:
      1.   Those for which a license is required.
      2.   Those for which a license was issued and which, at the time of the
inspection, are operating under such license.
      3.   Those for which a license has been revoked or suspended. (1988 Code
§ 4.16.070)
   D.   Entry Powers:
      1.   Inspections: Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in
connection with the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided
for or required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance
with any ordinance provision, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the
duty of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected,
to admit thereto, for the purpose of making the inspection, any officer,
employee or agent of the county who is authorized and directed to make such
inspections at any reasonable time the admission is requested.
      2.   Samples: Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is
reasonably necessary to secure compliance with ordinance provisions, or to
detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee whose business
is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee
requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or commodity as are
necessary for analysis. (1988 Code § 4.16.110)
   E.   Warrant Required: Any business or portion thereof which is closed to
the public, where permission to enter has been denied by the proprietor or
officer in charge, may only be inspected by an authorized officer who has in
his possession a valid search warrant authorizing the inspection of said
business. In no case will a warrant be required where the authorized inspector
has reason to believe that there exists on the premises some condition which
poses an eminent threat to the citizens of the county. (1988 Code § 4.16.080)
   F.   Reports By Inspectors: Persons inspecting licensees, their businesses
or premises, as herein authorized, shall report all violations of this chapter
to the county commissioners and shall submit such other reports as the
commissioners shall require. (1988 Code § 4.16.090)
   G.   Provisional Order:
      1.   When an inspector has reported a violation of this chapter, the
county commissioners, or any officer appointed by the commissioners, shall
issue to the affected person or entity a provisional order to comply. The order
shall be in writing and shall be personally served in the manner specified in
the Utah rules of civil procedure. In the absence of the person affected or
agent of the business, the notice shall be conspicuously affixed to some
structure on the premises.
      2.   The order shall inform the affected person or entity of his
particular violation and advise that the same must be corrected within thirty
(30) days of service. The commissioners may extend the time period if the
circumstances so justify.
      3.   If, after the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, the
violation remains uncorrected, and if the commissioners have failed to extend
said period, the license of the violator may be revoked in accordance with the
procedures set out in section
4-1-18 of this chapter. (1988 Code § 4.16.100)
4-1-18: DENIAL, NONRENEWAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds: The grounds for which the county commissioners may revoke an
existing license, or refuse to renew the same, include the following:
      1.   Violation of any of the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant
to this chapter;
      2.   Continued operation of the business in question will be detrimental
to the public health, safety, morals, peace or general welfare of the community
at large;
      3.   Refusal by the licensee to pay the fee assessed in section
4-1-10 of this chapter after receiving the notice required by the provisions of
this section. (1988 Code § 4.20.010)
   B.   Notice Requirements: Before the commissioners may revoke or refuse to
renew any license provided for hereunder, it must have written notice to the
aggrieved party setting forth the action it intends to take, and specifying the
grounds therefor. Such written notice shall include notice regarding the
party's right to a hearing and the party's responsibilities regarding
requesting such a hearing.
   C.   Hearing: The aggrieved party must be given an opportunity for a hearing
before the commissioners if requested in writing within ten (10) days of
receipt of said notice. At said hearing, the aggrieved party must be given the
opportunity to present his case and cross examine opposing witnesses, if any.
(1988 Code § 4.20.020)
   D.   Judicial Relief: Persons aggrieved by any decision of the commissioners
shall have the right to seek judicial relief therefrom only after having
exhausted the administrative remedies set forth in this section. (1988 Code §
4.20.010)
   E.   Effect Of Denial Or Revocation: If at any time a license is denied or
revoked under the provisions of this chapter, it shall thereafter be unlawful
for any person to carry on, operate, or use or permit to be used or operated,
any property for any business with respect to which said license has been
revoked or denied until a license shall be granted by the commissioners. (1988
Code § 4.20.030)
   F.   Waiting Period For New License: No person who has been denied a
license, or whose license has been revoked under the provisions of this
chapter, and no officer, director, manager, partner, employee or owner of the
business for which the license has been revoked, shall be granted a license for
the same purpose under provisions of this chapter for a period of six (6)
months after such denial or revocation has occurred. The commissioners may, for
good cause shown, waive the prohibition against an employee of a business which
has been denied a license or has had a license revoked. (1988 Code § 4.20.040)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Purchase Of Or Possession By Minors Prohibited; Exceptions
4-2-3: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings set forth in
Utah Code Annotated section 32A-1-205, or in other sections of the state
alcoholic beverage control act. (1988 Code § 5.12.010; amd. 2005 Code)
4-2-2: PURCHASE OF OR POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
purchase, accept or have in his possession any alcoholic beverage, including
beer or intoxicating liquor; provided, however, that this section shall not
apply to the acceptance of alcoholic beverage by such person for medicinal
purposes supplied only by the parent or guardian of such person, or to the
administering of such alcoholic beverage by a physician in accordance with the
law. The provisions of this section prohibiting possession of beer shall not
apply to persons under twenty one (21) years of age who are bona fide employees
in class A licensed premises while in the discharge of their employment. (1988
Code § 5.12.340)
4-2-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be punished as a class B misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2005 Code)
ARTICLE A.  BEER
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Licenses Required; Categories
4-2A-2: Classification Of Retail Licenses
4-2A-3: Persons Ineligible For License
4-2A-4: Applications For Licenses
4-2A-5: License Fees
4-2A-6: Bond Requirements
4-2A-7: Investigation And Inspection Of Applicant And Premises
4-2A-8: Expiration And Renewal Of License
4-2A-9: Transfer Of License; Purchase Of Business
4-2A-10: Employee Registration Requirements
4-2A-11: Location And Premises Requirements
4-2A-12: Days And Hours Of Operation
4-2A-13: Minors
4-2A-14: Intoxicated Persons
4-2A-15: Restricted And Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-2A-16: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
4-2A-17: Violation A Nuisance
4-2A-18: Penalties
4-2A-1: LICENSES REQUIRED; CATEGORIES:
   A.   Beer Sales: It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
the sale of beer at retail within the county without first procuring a license,
as hereinafter provided. A separate license shall be required for each place of
sale. The license shall identify the specific premises covered thereby and
shall at all times be conspicuously displayed in the place to which it refers
or for which it is issued. All licensees shall comply with the provisions of
the alcoholic beverage control act of the state and the regulations of the
alcoholic beverage control commission and this chapter. Every license shall
recite that it is granted subject to revocation, as provided in section
4-2A-16 of this article. (1988 Code § 5.12.020)
   B.   Sales At Wholesale; Fee: It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of selling beer at wholesale within the limits of the county without
first obtaining a license from the state alcoholic beverage control commission
and paying a fee in such amount as established by the county commission. (1988
Code § 5.12.030; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Lounges And Cabarets:
      1.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to operate a lounge
or cabaret without first acquiring a license.
      2.   Fees:
         a.   The annual license fee for a lounge shall be in such amount as
established by the county commission, in addition to the general business
license fee required under section
4-1-10 of this title.
         b.   The annual license fee for a cabaret shall be in such amount as
established by the county commission, in addition to the general business
license fee required under section
4-1-10 of this title. (1988 Code § 5.12.150; amd. 2005 Code)
4-2A-2: CLASSIFICATION OF RETAIL LICENSES:
   A.   Enumeration Of Classes:
      1.   Retail licenses issued under the provisions of this article shall be
classified into the following types, which shall carry the privileges and
responsibilities hereinafter set forth in this article:
      Class A
      Class B
      Class C
      Class D
      2.   All licenses of each class shall be numbered numerically commencing
with the number one. (1988 Code § 5.12.040)
   B.   Class A License: A class A retail license entitles the licensee to sell
beer, on the premises described therein, in original containers of a size not
to exceed one liter capacity, for consumption off the premises, in accordance
with the alcoholic beverage control act of the state and the ordinances of the
county. (1988 Code § 5.12.050)
   C.   Class B License:
      1.   A class B retail license entitles the licensee to sell beer, on the
premises described therein, in original containers of a size not to exceed one
liter capacity, for consumption on the licensed premises. A class B retail
license also entitles the licensee to all of the privileges granted to a holder
of a class A retail license. Only bona fide restaurants shall be entitled to
class B licenses.
      2.   All holders of a class B license shall maintain records which shall
disclose the gross sales of beer and the gross sales of food served, and any
other items sold for consumption on or off the premises during the semiannual
periods ending June 30 and December 31 of each year. Such sales shall be shown
separately.
      3.   Each licensee shall retain all invoices, vouchers, sales slips,
receipts and other records of beer and other commodity purchases from all
suppliers. Such records shall be available for inspection and audit by
authorized county officials at any time following the close of the semiannual
period, and for eighteen (18) months thereafter. Failure to properly maintain
such records for such inspection and audit shall be cause for revocation of the
class B license. If any audit or inspection discloses that the sales of beer on
the licensed premises are in excess of twenty five percent (25%) of the gross
dollar volume of business for any semiannual period, the class B license shall
immediately be suspended and shall not be reinstated until the licensee is able
to prove to the satisfaction of the board of county commissioners that in the
future the sales of beer on the licensed premises will not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the gross dollar volume of business.
      4.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall sell or serve
beer under this license. (1988 Code § 5.12.060)
   D.   Class C License: A class C license is required for all premises where
the primary or main business is that of selling beer for consumption on the
licensed premises. A class C license shall entitle the licensee to sell beer
for consumption on or off the licensed premises in any size of container, and
shall entitle the holder thereof to all the privileges granted the holders of
class A and B retail licenses, in accordance with the alcoholic beverage
control act of the state. No person under the age of twenty one (21) years
shall sell or serve beer under this license. (1988 Code § 5.12.070)
   E.   Class D License: A class D retail license entitles the licensee to sell
beer for consumption on publicly owned recreation facilities. The licensee
shall be the holder of a concession contract from the public body owning the
recreation area involved. Under this license, no beer shall be sold in the
original containers, but must be first emptied into suitable temporary
containers. No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may sell or serve
beer under this license. All sales and deliveries under this license shall be
made directly to the ultimate consumer. (1988 Code § 5.12.080)
4-2A-3: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No license shall be granted to any retailer to sell beer or to any wholesaler
of beer unless he shall be of good moral character, over the age of twenty one
(21) years and a citizen of the United States; nor shall a license be issued to
anyone who has pleaded guilty to or has been convicted of a felony, or of any
violation of any law or ordinance relating to an alcoholic beverage, controlled
substance, drunken driving, or of keeping a gambling or disorderly house; nor
to any partnership, any member of which does not meet any of the qualifications
set forth in this article; nor to any corporation, any director or officer of
which does not meet any of the aforesaid qualifications. (1988 Code § 5.12.220)
4-2A-4: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
All applications for licenses, for renewal or reissuance of licenses and for
transfer of licenses authorized by this article, shall be verified and filed
with the county clerk and addressed to the board of county commissioners. The
application shall state the applicant's name in full and indicate that he has
complied with the requirements and possesses the qualifications specified in
the alcoholic beverage control act. If the applicant is a copartnership, the
names and addresses of all officers and directors must be stated. The
application must be signed by the applicant, who shall state under oath that
the facts therein contained are true. All applicants must furnish such other
information as may be requested by the county, including a certificate of at
least three (3) residents of the county to the effect that the applicant is of
good moral character and is a fit and proper person to be granted a license.
(1988 Code §§ 5.12.090, 5.12.120)
4-2A-5: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: Applications for retail licenses under this article
shall be accompanied by a fee in such amount as established by the county
commission, which are in addition to the general business license fees required
under section
4-1-10 of this title.
   B.   Proration Of Fee: For all licenses issued under the provisions of this
article, after the expiration of the current license year, the fees shall be
prorated by quarters, and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof
during which the business has been or will be conducted, according to the
following schedule:
      1.   When new businesses commence operation on or after April 1, but
prior to July 1, the fee shall be three-fourths (3/4) of the annual fee.
      2.   When new businesses commence operation on or after July 1, but prior
to October 1, the fee shall be one-half (1/2) of the annual fee.
      3.   When new businesses commence operation on or after October 1, but
prior to December 31, the fee shall be one-fourth (1/4) of the annual fee.
(1988 Code § 5.12.140; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Failure To Pay Fee; Civil Action: In all cases where business licensing
fees have not been paid in the time and manner as dictated by this article, a
civil action may be brought in the name of the county against the licensee.
Such action may be brought in any court having jurisdiction in order to recover
the amount of the fee and any penalties which may attach and/or to enjoin
further operation by the licensee. In any case, where several amounts for
business licenses shall remain due and unpaid by any person, such several
amounts of unpaid license fees may be joined as separate causes of action in
the same complaint in such civil cases. (1988 Code § 5.12.200)
4-2A-6: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the fees required under the provisions of this article, each
applicant will be required to post a cash or corporate surety bond with the
county clerk for one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The bond shall be made in
favor of the county. Such bond is to remain in effect during the entire license
period. The bond is for the purpose of guaranteeing compliance with all state
or county laws and ordinances and shall be forfeited in the event of the
licensee's conviction of a felony or the violation by the licensee of any laws
or ordinances relating to alcoholic beverages, possession of controlled
substances, gambling or keeping a disorderly house under the laws of the state
or ordinances of any other jurisdiction without or within the state. Upon
termination of any beer license, for any reason other than the above, the full
amount of any surety or bond required shall be returned within twenty (20) days
to the applicant. (1988 Code § 5.12.210)
4-2A-7: INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION OF APPLICANT AND PREMISES:
   A.   Investigation By Sheriff:
      1.   All applications filed in accordance with the provisions of this
article shall be referred to the sheriff for inspection and report. The sheriff
shall, within thirty (30) days after receiving such application, make report to
the board of county commissioners of:
         a.   The general reputation and character of the persons who
habitually frequent such place;
         b.   The nature and the kind of business conducted at such place by
the applicant or by any other person or by the applicant at any other place;
         c.   Whether such place is or has been conducted in a lawful, quiet
and orderly manner;
         d.   The nature and kind of entertainment, if any, at such place;
         e.   Whether gambling is or has been permitted on the premises or by
the applicant at any other place; and
         f.   The proximity of such premises to any school or church.
      2.   The sheriff shall also add his recommendation as to whether or not
the application should be granted. (1988 Code § 5.12.100)
   B.   Inspection By Health Department: All applications filed in accordance
with the provisions of this article shall be referred to the health department,
which shall inspect all premises to be licensed to assure sanitary compliance
with the laws of the state, the ordinances of the county, and the health
department rules and regulations on the preparation, storage, distribution or
sale of beer and food. If the health department determines that the premises
fulfills all such sanitary requirements, the health department shall issue a
permit to the licensee, a copy of which shall be attached to the application
for license. (1988 Code § 5.12.110)
4-2A-8: EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Expiration Of License: All class A, B, C or D retail licenses issued
pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be issued for one year from
the date the license was granted. (1988 Code § 5.12.160)
   B.   Application For Renewal: All applications for renewal licenses shall be
filed with the county clerk at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration
date of the then issued license. Any person who fails to file such application
within the time limit shall close his licensed premises on the expiration date
of the then issued license and shall keep the premises closed for any and all
business for the sale of beer until the date his new license is issued by order
of the board of county commissioners. (1988 Code § 5.12.130)
   C.   Payment Of Fee; Delinquencies: Renewal license fees are due on or
before that same date in each succeeding year. In the event renewal fees are
not received at the office of the county clerk within thirty (30) days after
the day when due, the licensee must reapply for a business license and pay a
penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of the fees due as part of the reissuance
fee. In the event the renewal fees are not received at the office of the
license official by sixty (60) days after the day when due, the licensee must
reapply for a business license and pay a penalty of one hundred percent (100%)
of the fees due as part of the reissuance fee. (1988 Code § 5.12.160)
4-2A-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; PURCHASE OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Transfer To New Location: Licenses issued pursuant to this article may
be transferred to a new proper location upon application to the board of county
commissioners, filed with the county clerk, and upon the payment of a transfer
fee in such amount as established by the county commission, which shall be
refunded if the application is denied. (1988 Code § 5.12.180; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Purchase Of Business: If any licensee sells his place of business, the
purchaser thereof may be granted a license to operate the same business;
provided, that he has complied with the requirements and possesses the
qualifications specified by the board of county commissioners. Any prospective
purchaser of a business licensed pursuant to this article may petition the
commissioners for a determination of his fitness and eligibility to be granted
a license as herein provided. When such a determination is favorable to the
petitioner, he shall thereafter be granted such a license upon making
application therefor and submitting proper proof of his purchase of such
business to the board of county commissioners within sixty (60) days after
filing his original petition; except, that no such license shall be issued to
any applicant whose eligibility therefor shall have been terminated by the
discovery of grounds for his disqualification subsequent to this original
petition. (1988 Code § 5.12.190)
4-2A-10: EMPLOYEE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All employees of class B, C and D retail beer licenses, before engaging
in the duties of their employment in or on the licensed premises, shall
preregister with the county sheriff's department, upon a form to be provided by
that department. They shall submit to fingerprinting and shall provide the
department with two (2) one and one-half inch by one and one-half inch (11/2" x
11/2") photographs of themselves.
   B.   The sheriff's department shall provide each employee with an
identification card which must be carried on the person of such employee at all
times while working in the licensed premises.
   C.   A person registered under this section, upon changing employment, shall
notify the county sheriff's department in writing of that fact. (1988 Code §
5.12.240)
4-2A-11: LOCATION AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location Restrictions: No license shall be granted to sell beer in any
establishment, with the exception of those possessing a class A license, within
six hundred feet (600') of any church, school, public park, residence,
hospital, rest home, or any other such place which requires, expects or relies
upon reasonable peace, quiet and order. (1988 Code § 5.12.250)
   B.   Lighting And Open View Requirements: It is unlawful for any person to
own, operate or manage any premises licensed for the sale of beer without
complying with the following lighting and view requirements:
      1.   During business hours, a minimum of one candlepower light, measured
at a level five feet (5') above the floor, shall be maintained.
      2.   No enclosed booths, blinds or stall shall be erected or maintained.
      3.   A clear, unobstructed view of all portions of the interior shall be
available at all times from a point within the licensed premises at or near the
main public entrance. (1988 Code § 5.12.260)
4-2A-12: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
It is unlawful for any licensee, operator, or any employee thereof, to sell,
dispose of, give away or deliver any beer, or permit the consumption thereof,
on the licensed premises between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. of any day; except, that during the calendar period of May
1 through October 31 of any year, both dates inclusive, the hours of unlawful
operation shall be between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. of any day; and except, further, that on any New Year's
Day, the hours of unlawful operation shall be between the hours of three
o'clock (3:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of such day. (1988 Code §
5.12.290)
4-2A-13: MINORS:
   A.   Sales To Prohibited: It is unlawful to sell beer to any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years. (1988 Code § 5.12.310)
   B.   Prohibitions Regarding Class C Licenses:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
to enter or be in or about any premises licensed as a class C establishment for
the sale of beer, or to drink beer or any intoxicating liquor in such licensed
premises. (1988 Code § 5.12.320)
      2.   It is unlawful for any licensee of a class C establishment for the
sale of beer, or any operator, agent or employee of such licensee, to knowingly
permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to remain in or about
such licensed premises.
      3.   The licensee shall require every patron, before entering the
premises, to present a valid driver's license or other form of identification
containing the patron's picture, date of birth, height, weight, and color of
hair and eyes. If the licensee questions the validity of any identification
presented, the licensee shall retain the identification at the door, available
for inspection by the sheriff, and return the same to the patron when he leaves
the licensed premises. (1988 Code § 5.12.340)
4-2A-14: INTOXICATED PERSONS:
   A.   Presence On Premises Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person licensed
to sell beer or for any of his agents or employees to allow intoxicated persons
to remain in or about any licensed premises. (1988 Code § 5.12.350)
   B.   Sales To Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to sell beer to any
intoxicated person or to any person under the influence of any intoxicating
beverage. (1988 Code § 5.12.360)
4-2A-15: RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Nuisances: It is unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a
"nuisance", as defined in section
4-2-1 of this chapter. (1988 Code § 5.12.300)
   B.   Beer Purchases From Licensed Wholesaler Only: It shall be unlawful for
any licensee to purchase, acquire, have or possess for the purpose of resale or
distribution any beer, except that which he shall lawfully have purchased from
a brewer or wholesaler licensed under the provisions of the alcoholic beverage
control act of the state. (1988 Code § 5.12.270)
   C.   Keg Beer:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or dispose of any beer
contained in a keg in the unincorporated limits of the county.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase or consume, either
solely or jointly with another, any beer in a keg in the unincorporated areas
of the county, except those persons licensed as manufacturers and distributors
and other licensed individuals possessing a valid license to possess keg beer
for the purpose of transportation through the county, or other lawful purposes
within the county. (1988 Code § 5.12.280)
   D.   Dancing During Certain Hours: It shall be unlawful to permit any
dancing upon or in connection with any licensed premises between one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any day. (1988 Code § 5.12.250)
4-2A-16: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds: Licenses may be suspended or revoked by the board of county
commissioners for the violation on the licensed premises of any provision of
this article, or of any other applicable ordinance or law relating to alcoholic
beverages. Licenses may also be suspended if the person to whom the license was
issued no longer possesses the qualifications required by this article and the
statutes of the state.
   B.   Summary Suspensions; Notice And Hearing For Suspensions And
Revocations: All licenses issued pursuant to this article may be suspended and
the premises closed by the sheriff without a prior hearing. At the time of a
suspension, notice shall be given to the licensee of his right to petition the
board of county commissioners for a prompt hearing within ten (10) days from
the date of such suspension. The cause or causes for such suspension shall be
listed on the notice of closure. If cause for the suspension is established at
the hearing, the suspension order may be continued for up to one year in
duration. However, no license shall be revoked or suspended beyond the initial
hearing without first establishing cause therefor, nor shall any license be
revoked without first giving the licensee an opportunity for a hearing on the
causes specified for revocation.
   C.   Sales During Suspension Or Revocation Prohibited: It is unlawful for
any person to sell beer at the licensed premises during the period of
suspension or after the revocation of the beer license. (1988 Code § 5.12.170)
4-2A-17: VIOLATION A NUISANCE:
Any premises which shall be found in violation of the provisions of this
article shall be deemed a "nuisance", as defined in this code. It shall be
unlawful for any person to keep or maintain such a nuisance within the county.
(2005 Code)
4-2A-18: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, or corporation or licensee violating this article, or any
provision herein contained, or any of the laws governing the selling of beer in
the state, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 5.12.230; amd. 2005 Code)
ARTICLE B.  LOCAL CONSENT FOR LIQUOR LICENSE
SECTION:
4-2B-1: State License Required
4-2B-2: Application For Local Consent
4-2B-3: Application Requirements
4-2B-4: Qualifications
4-2B-5: Grant Or Denial Of Local Consent
4-2B-6: Violation A Nuisance
4-2B-1: STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, package agency, restaurant, airport lounge
or private club, located within the unincorporated area of the county, to sell
liquor or to allow the consumption of liquor on its premises, without first
having obtained a license therefor from the state alcoholic beverage control
commission pursuant to the state alcoholic beverage control act. (2005 Code)
4-2B-2: APPLICATION FOR LOCAL CONSENT:
Any person, package agency, restaurant, airport lounge or private club, which
has applied to the state alcoholic beverage control commission for a liquor
license pursuant to the state alcoholic beverage control act, to be operated
within the unincorporated area of the county, is required to obtain local
consent from the board of county commissioners prior to receiving said license
from the state alcoholic beverage control commission. In order to obtain local
consent from the board of county commissioners, a person, package agency,
restaurant, airport lounge or private club, shall complete an application for
local consent on forms maintained by the board of county commissioners. The
completed application, together with all required attachments, shall be
submitted to the board of county commissioners for consideration during a
regularly scheduled public meeting. (2005 Code)
4-2B-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
A person seeking to operate a package agency pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
title 32A, chapter 3, as amended; a person seeking a restaurant liquor license
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 32A, chapter 4, part 1, as amended; a
person seeking an airport lounge liquor license pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
title 32A, chapter 4, part 2, as amended; and a person seeking a private club
liquor license pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 32A, chapter 5, as
amended, shall submit the application required by section
4-2B-2 of this article, together with a copy of each attachment required by the
state alcoholic beverage control commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
title 32A, as amended. (2005 Code)
4-2B-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
The board of county commissioners may not grant local consent to a person,
partnership, corporation or other entity if the person, any partner, managing
agent, officer, director, or stockholder who holds at least twenty percent
(20%) of the total issued and outstanding stock of an applicant corporation,
has been convicted of: a) a felony under any federal or state law; b) any
violation of any federal or state law or local ordinance concerning the sale,
manufacture, distribution, warehousing, adulteration or transportation of
alcoholic beverages; or c) any crime involving moral turpitude. (2005 Code)
4-2B-5: GRANT OR DENIAL OF LOCAL CONSENT:
Following receipt of the application for local consent, together with all
required attachments, the board of county commissioners shall place the matter
upon the agenda of a regularly scheduled public meeting for consideration.
Before granting local consent, the board of county commissioners shall:
   A.   Determine that the applicant has complied with all basic qualifications
and requirements for making application for local consent and that the
application is complete;
   B.   Consider the locality within which the proposed liquor license is
sought, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Physical characteristics, such as condition of the premises, square
footage and parking availability; and
      2.   Operational factors, such as tourist traffic, proximity to and
density of other state stores, package agencies and outlets, demographics,
population to be served, and the extent of and proximity to any school, church,
public library, public playground or park;
   C.   Consider the applicant's ability to manage and operate a facility with
a liquor license, including, but not limited to, management experience, past
retail liquor experience, and the type of management scheme employed by the
applicant;
   D.   Consider the nature or type of facility or operation, including, but
not limited to, the type of menu items offered and emphasized, whether the
facility emphasizes service to an adult clientele or to minors, the hours of
operation, the seating capacity of the facility, and the gross sales of food
items; and
   E.   Consider any other factors or circumstances it considers necessary.
(2005 Code)
4-2B-6: VIOLATION A NUISANCE:
Any premises which shall be found in violation of the provisions of this
article shall be deemed a "nuisance", as defined in this code. It shall be
unlawful for any person to keep or maintain such a nuisance within the county.
(2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Permit Required
4-3-3: Application For Permit
4-3-4: Permit Fees
4-3-5: Exhibition Of Permit
4-3-6: Revocation Of Permit
4-3-7: Appeals
4-3-8: Exemptions From Provisions
4-3-9: Provisions Are Additional
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
4-1-3 of this title, the following terms, phrases and words shall have the
meanings given herein:
CANVASSER OR SOLICITOR: One who takes orders, going from residence to residence
without appointment, for future deliveries of goods or services, or for
intangible services, or solicits subscriptions from other than an established
place of business, or seeks contributions of goods or money.
PEDDLER: One who sells food, goods, wares or commodities from place to place,
without an appointment, and makes delivery of the product at the time of
contact. The time of collection of payment is immaterial. The term "peddler"
also includes the terms "hawker" and "huckster". (1988 Code § 4.24.030)
4-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall act as a peddler, solicitor or canvasser without having first
obtained a permit as provided in this chapter. Such permit shall be carried on
the person while so acting, and shall be displayed to any person upon request.
(1988 Code § 4.24.010)
4-3-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
In addition to the provisions set forth in section
4-1-6 of this title, the following information must be provided in an
application for a permit under this chapter:
   A.   A list of other counties or municipalities in which the applicant has
engaged in business within the six (6) month period preceding the date of the
application.
   B.   A photograph of the applicant, taken within six (6) months immediately
prior to the date of filing the application. The photograph shall be at least
two inches by two inches (2" x 2") showing the head and shoulders of the
applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner.
   C.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant, or any of his
employers, have been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any
county or municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense, and the punishment or
penalty assessed therefor.
   D.   If an applicant desires to sell fresh vegetables, fruits, meats or
other foodstuffs, a statement by a licensed reputable physician of the state,
dated not more than ten (10) days prior to submission of the application,
certifying the applicant to be free of infectious, contagious, or communicable
diseases.
   E.   If the applicant is employed by another person, firm or corporation,
the documents showing that the person, firm or corporation for which the
applicant proposes to do business is authorized to do business within the
state. (1988 Code § 4.24.040)
4-3-4: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   The permit fee which shall be charged by the county clerk for any
permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be in such amount as established
by the county commission.
   B.   None of the permit fees provided for by this chapter shall be applied
so as to impose an undue burden upon interstate commerce. In any case where a
permit fee is believed by the permittee or applicant for a permit to place an
undue burden upon interstate commerce, he or she may apply to the county
commissioners for an adjustment of the fee so it will not be discriminatory,
unreasonable or unfair to interstate commerce. Such application may be made
either before or within six (6) months after paying the prescribed permit fee.
(1988 Code § 4.24.050; amd. 2005 Code)
4-3-5: EXHIBITION OF PERMIT:
Any person permitted pursuant to this chapter shall exhibit his permit at the
request of any county citizen. It is the duty of any deputy sheriff or sheriff
of the county to enforce the provisions of this chapter. Said officers shall
require any person seen soliciting, canvassing, or peddling, who is not known
by such officer to be duly permitted, to produce his or her permit. (1988 Code
§ 4.24.060)
4-3-6: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Grounds: The county sheriff or the county clerk may revoke permits
issued pursuant to this chapter for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the permit.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business as solicitor or canvasser.
      3.   Any violation of this title.
      4.   Conviction of the applicant of a felony within the preceding five
(5) years, or of a misdemeanor involving a crime of moral turpitude within the
preceding three (3) years.
      5.   Conducting the business of soliciting or of canvassing in an
unlawful manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a
menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   B.   Procedure: Permit revocation procedures for this chapter are the same
as those described in section
4-1-18 of this title, except the time after notice to request a hearing for
denial or revocation of a permit issued under this chapter shall be five (5)
days. (1988 Code § 4.24.070)
4-3-7: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by any decision or action of any licensing official may
appeal to the board of county commissioners by written notice of appeal filed
with the clerk of the board within fifteen (15) days following receipt by such
person of written notice of such decision or action. Such appeal shall be
placed upon the agenda of the board of county commissioners for hearing upon
the earliest available date, but in no event later than the second regular
board meeting following the filing of the appeal with the clerk. (1988 Code §
4.24.090)
4-3-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This chapter does not apply to:
   A.   Persons acting on behalf of organizations recognized as charitable for
the purpose of allowing federal income tax deductions by the United States
internal revenue service, provided such persons act with the knowledge and
authorization of such organization, and provided that such persons have on
their person identification certifying their position with the organization.
Such identification may include, but is not limited to, uniforms and preprinted
nametags or promotional material issued by the organization.
   B.   Persons who represent a fixed place of business in the county who
regularly make deliveries normally not involving personal contact with
customers, for the purpose of making sales or obtaining orders over an
established route. Only occasionally do said persons make calls on residents
within the area covered by such route for the purpose of obtaining additional
customers for such regular deliveries.
   C.   Persons licensed and regulated under state law governing the insurance
business.
   D.   Persons licensed and regulated under state law governing the real
estate business.
   E.   Persons licensed and regulated under state law governing the securities
and investment business.
   F.   Persons who go from private residence to private residence for
political purposes or for the purpose of influencing legislation. (1988 Code §
4.24.020)
4-3-9: PROVISIONS ARE ADDITIONAL:
This chapter shall not be construed so as to waive the provisions and
requirements of chapter 1 of this title. (1988 Code § 4.24.080)
CHAPTER 4
VENDING MACHINES
SECTION:
4-4-1: General License Requirements; More Restrictive Provisions Apply
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Classification Of Licenses
4-4-4: License Fees
4-4-5: Regulations And Restrictions
4-4-6: Enforcement And Penalty
4-4-1: GENERAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; MORE RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS APPLY:
All general licensing provisions, procedures, duties and sections contained in
chapter 1 of this title also apply to vending machine licenses. If there are
any clauses in this chapter regarding vending machines which are more
restrictive than those contained in chapter 1 of this title, the clause in this
chapter shall control. (1988 Code § 4.28.010)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set out in section
4-1-3 of this title, the following terms, phrases and words are defined as
follows:
EXHIBITOR: Any person on whose premises a vending machine is located pursuant
to arrangements with the owner or lessee of such machine.
OWNER: Any person who owns or leases a vending machine for placement with an
exhibitor.
VENDING MACHINES: Coin operated machines that dispense merchandise items such
as foods, drinks, toys, notebooks, gum, candies, and cigarettes. This
definition includes machines that are used for entertainment. (1988 Code §
4.28.020)
4-4-3: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
The following classifications shall apply to all vending machines within the
jurisdiction of the county:
   A.   Class A: All vending machines with maximum single sales not exceeding
fifty cents ($0.50).
   B.   Class B: All vending machines with maximum single sales not exceeding
one dollar fifty cents ($1.50), but not less than fifty one cents ($0.51).
   C.   Class C: All vending machines with maximum single sale of one dollar
fifty one cents ($1.51) or more. (1988 Code § 4.28.030; amd. 2005 Code)
4-4-4: LICENSE FEES:
Owners of mechanical vending machines, as such devices are defined and
classified in sections
4-4-2 and
4-4-3 of this chapter, shall pay a license fee in such amount as established by
the county commission. (1988 Code § 4.28.040; amd. 2005 Code)
4-4-5: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
The licenses provided for in this chapter relative to vending machines in all
classes shall be subject to the following regulations and restrictions:
   A.   Responsibility For License Fee: The license fee for the machines shall
be paid by the owner of such machines, not the exhibitor. Where the owner of
the machines and exhibitor are the same, the licenses for the machines shall be
in addition to the license which may be required for the owner's establishment
under the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Identification Sticker: An identification sticker shall be posted
conspicuously on each vending machine which shall indicate that such machine is
licensed for the current year.
   C.   Rotation Of Machines: Vending machines may be rotated by the owner
thereof from one location to another as long as the total number of machines at
the respective locations does not increase above the amount specified by the
license issued to the owner.
   D.   Change Of Location; Transfer Of License: If the licensee shall move his
place of business to another location within the county, the license for the
machines may be transferred to such new location upon application to the county
clerk. (1988 Code § 4.28.050)
   E.   False Information On Application: It shall be a class B misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to falsify any information on any application for license
under this chapter. (1988 Code § 4.28.050; amd. 2005 Code)
4-4-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter is punishable as provided in
chapter 1 of this title. (1988 Code § 4.28.060)
CHAPTER 5
FOOD AND FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Compliance With State And County Regulations
4-5-2: Food Dealers
4-5-3: Restaurants
4-5-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND COUNTY REGULATIONS:
All food and food service establishments are required to meet the requirements
of cleanliness and sanitation established by the state health code and the
central Utah district board of health. Authorized county health employees or
agents may inspect such premises to ensure compliance with applicable health
regulations. Any violation of the county health code shall be a class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. For continuing violations, a separate violation shall be
deemed committed on each day of violation. (1988 Code §§ 5.01.010, 5.01.020;
amd. 2005 Code)
4-5-2: FOOD DEALERS:
   A.   Definitions:
FOOD: Means and includes beverages.
FOOD DEALER: Means and includes every person, firm or corporation engaged in
the business of selling food at retail for human consumption. (1988 Code §
5.04.010)
   B.   License Required; Fee: It is unlawful for any food dealer to engage in
or do business without having first secured a license therefor. Application for
such license shall be made in compliance with chapter 1 of this title, and it
shall be stated thereon the kind of food intended to be handled or sold. The
annual fees for such license shall be as prescribed in section
4-1-10 of this title. (1988 Code § 5.04.020)
   C.   Application For License; Issuance: All applications for a license to
conduct a business connected with the storage, handling, sale or preparation of
food or drink intended for human consumption shall be referred to the local
health official. The local health official shall make or cause to be made an
investigation of the premises to be used, and report its findings, recommending
or advising against the issuance of the license. Provided the local health
official deems it advisable to issue a license, the board shall issue a permit
to the applicant which shall be presented to the county clerk's office for
referral to the commissioners. (1988 Code § 5.04.030)
   D.   Sanitary Conditions:
      1.   Premises:
         a.   Premises used for the sale or storage of food intended for human
consumption must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
         b.   It is unlawful to permit any accumulation of refuse or waste of
any kind to remain on the premises for more than twenty four (24) hours, and it
is unlawful to permit any decaying animal or plant material to remain on such
premises. (1988 Code § 5.04.050)
         c.   Premises used for the storage, preparation or sale of food for
human consumption shall be kept free from flies, vermin and rodents. (1988 Code
§ 5.04.060)
      2.   Employees:
         a.   All persons who handle or may come in contact with food intended
for sale for human consumption shall keep themselves clean, both as to person
and clothing. (1988 Code § 5.04.070)
         b.   It is unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier
of any infectious or contagious disease to handle or be engaged in the care or
preparation of any food. It is unlawful to permit any such person to be
employed in or about any premises where food is stored, prepared or sold, or to
deliver any such food. (1988 Code § 5.04.080)
   E.   Quality Of Food And Drink:
      1.   It is unlawful to sell or offer for sale for human consumption any
meat, poultry or fish which has been frozen and later thawed, unless such meat,
poultry or fish is plainly labeled to indicate this. Such labels shall be on
the display counter or table where the meat is offered, and also on each
package in which such meat, poultry or fish is wrapped when sold or delivered.
(1988 Code § 5.04.090)
      2.   Unwholesome Food Prohibited: No person, firm or corporation shall
offer for sale, or keep for the purpose of selling or offering for sale, any
food of any kind intended for human consumption which is spoiled, tainted, or
unwholesome and unfit for human consumption. All tainted or unwholesome food
intended for human consumption may be condemned by the board of health, and
shall thereupon be seized and destroyed by the health officer or any officer of
the sheriff's department. (1988 Code § 5.04.100)
      3.   Adulterated Food Or Drink: It is unlawful to sell, offer for sale or
keep for such purpose any food or drink intended for human consumption which
has been adulterated by any material harmful in any way or which does not
comply with the ordinances governing the same. (1988 Code § 5.04.110)
   F.   Revocation Of License: Any food dealer's license may be revoked by the
county commissioners for repeated violations of the provisions of this section,
or for violation of any other ordinance provision or applicable law relating to
the conduct of the business, the condition of the premises, the articles sold,
or the license required. (1988 Code § 5.04.040)
4-5-3: RESTAURANTS:
   A.   License And Compliance Required: It is unlawful to operate a restaurant
in the county without first having obtained a license therefor, and without
also having made full compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (1988
Code § 5.08.010)
   B.   Application For License: Application for such license shall be made in
writing to the county clerk on a form to be furnished by the county clerk's
office. All applications shall comply with the general provisions of chapter 1
of this title. (1988 Code § 5.08.020)
   C.   Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Of License: Applications shall be
referred by the county clerk to the health department, which shall make or
cause to be made an investigation of the premises to be used. The health
department will report its findings, recommending or advising against the
issuance of the license. If all applicable requirements are met, the health
department shall issue a permit when recommending such issuance. Such permits
shall be presented to the clerk with the application for a license to conduct
such business. No license shall be issued unless accompanied by the permit.
(1988 Code § 5.08.030)
CHAPTER 6
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Short Title
4-6-2: Purpose
4-6-3: Application And Interpretation
4-6-4: Definitions
4-6-5: Zoning
4-6-6: Licenses Required
4-6-7: Categories Of Business Licenses; License For More Than One Category
Restricted
4-6-8: Applications For Licenses
4-6-9: Bond Required
4-6-10: Fees
4-6-11: Application Submitted To Reviewing Agencies
4-6-12: Approval Or Denial Of License; Issuance; Changes In Information
4-6-13: Term Of License; Renewals
4-6-14: Nontransferability Of License
4-6-15: Display Of Licenses
4-6-16: Business Location And Name
4-6-17: Advertisements Require License Information
4-6-18: Exemptions From Provisions
4-6-19: Violation; Penalty
4-6-20: No Vested Rights
4-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Ord.
4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose and object of this chapter to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations governing the time, place and manner of operations of
sexually oriented businesses and their employees in the county. This chapter
shall be construed to protect the governmental interests recognized by this
chapter in a manner consistent with constitutional protections provided by the
United States and Utah state constitutions. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-
2003)
4-6-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   This chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on
certain business activities which are characterized as "sexually oriented
businesses", and certain employees of those businesses characterized as
"sexually oriented business employees".
   B.   Nothing herein shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or
display of any matter which is contrary to the provisions of section
4-6A-7 of this title or other applicable federal or state laws prohibiting
obscenity or lewdness. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image
producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displaced are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment which:
   A.   Holds itself out to be such a business;
   B.   Excludes minors from more than fifteen percent (15%) of the retail
floor or shelf space of the premises; or
   C.   As one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rent, for any form
of consideration, any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals, photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes or video
reproductions, slides or other printed or visual representations, the central
theme of which depicts or describes specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, the depiction or description of which is regulated or
prohibited by this chapter, or offers for sale or rent any instruments, devices
or paraphernalia which are designated for use in connection with such sexual
activities, except for legitimate medically recognized contraceptives.
ADULT BUSINESS: An adult motion picture theater, adult cabaret, adult arcade,
adult bookstore, adult video store or adult theater.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment which:
   A.   Holds itself out as such a business;
   B.   Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions
(repeated showing of any single presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
   C.   As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration, films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
which are primarily characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which:
   A.   Holds itself out as such a business;
   B.   Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions
(repeated performances of the same presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
   C.   As its principal business, features persons who appear in live
performance in a state of seminudity.
BUSINESS LICENSE AUTHORITY: Millard County's business license officer or
designee.
EMPLOY: Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary or any other form of
compensation whether such person is hired on the payroll of the employer, as an
independent contractor, as an agent or in any other form of employment
relationship.
ESCORT: A. Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes,
visits, consorts with or accompanies or offers to date, consort, socialize,
visit or accompany another or others to or about social affairs, entertainment
or places of amusement or within any place of public or private resort or any
business or commercial establishment or any private quarters.
   B.   "Escort" shall not be construed to include persons who provide business
or personal services such as licensed private nurses, aides for the elderly or
handicapped, social secretaries or similar service personnel:
  1. Whose relationship with their patron is characterized by a bona fide
contractual relationship having a duration of more than twelve (12) hours; or
  2. Who provide a service not principally characterized as dating or
socializing.
   C.   "Escort" shall also not be construed to include persons providing
services such as singing telegrams, birthday greetings or similar activities
characterized by appearances in a public place, contracted for by a party other
than the person for whom the service is being performed and of a duration of
not longer than one hour.
ESCORT SERVICE: An individual or entity who, for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes or offers to furnish escorts, or provides or offers to introduce
patrons to escorts.
ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER: Any third person, not an escort, who, for pecuniary
compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service,
escort or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services, escorts or
patrons at any location within Millard County, whether or not said third person
is employed by such escort service, escort, patron, or by another business or
is an independent contractor or self-employed.
ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT: Shall mean and include any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
NUDE OR STATE OF NUDITY: The state of dress in which the areola of the female
breast, or male or female genitals, pubic region, or anus are covered by less
than the covering required in the definition of "seminude" in this section.
OUTCALL SERVICES: Services of a type performed by a sexually oriented business
employee outside of the premises of the licensed sexually oriented business'
physical facilities, including, but not limited to, escorts, models, dancers
and other similar employees. Escort services and escort service runners shall
be considered "outcall services" for the purposes of this chapter.
PATRON: Any person who contracts with or employs any escort services or escort
or the customer of any business licensed pursuant to this chapter.
PECUNIARY COMPENSATION: Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward or any other form of consideration.
PERSON: Any person, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership or
other legal entity.
SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY: Any person, agency, firm, corporation, partnership or
any other entity or individual which furnishes, books, or otherwise engages or
offers to furnish, book or otherwise engage the service of a professional
dancer licensed pursuant to this chapter for performance or appearance at a
seminude entertainment business or adult theater.
SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: A business where employees perform or appear
in the presence of patrons of the business in a state of seminudity. A business
shall also be presumed to be a "seminude entertainment business" if the
business holds itself out as such a business.
SEMINUDE OR STATE OF SEMINUDITY: A state of dress in which opaque clothing
covers no more than the areola of the female breast and the male or female
genitals, pubic region, and anus with a covering no narrower than four inches
(4") wide in the front and five inches (5") wide in the back, which shall not
taper to less than one inch (1") wide at the narrowest point.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: "Outcall services", "adult businesses", "seminude
entertainment businesses", and "seminude dancing agencies", as defined in this
section.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES: A. Those employees who work for sexually
oriented businesses in activities which relate in any way to the sexually
oriented portion of the business. This includes all managers, dancers, escorts,
models and other similar employees of sexually oriented businesses, whether
hired as employees, agents or as independent contractors.
   B.   "Sexually oriented business employees" shall not include individuals
whose work is unrelated to the sexually oriented portion of the business such
as, janitors, bookkeepers, cooks, serving persons, bartenders and similar
employees, except where they may be managers or supervisors of the business.
   C.   All persons making outcall meetings under this chapter, including
escorts, models, dancers, guards, escort service runners, drivers, chauffeurs
and other similar employees shall be considered "sexually oriented business
employees".
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: The human male or female pubic area and anus with
less than a full opaque covering, and the human female breast below the top of
the areola with less than full opaque covering.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Acts of:
  1. Masturbation;
  2. Human sexual intercourse;
  3. Fellatio;
  4. Cunnilingus;
  5. Bestiality;
  6. Pederasty;
  7. Buggery; or
  8. Anal copulation between a human male and another human male, human female
or beast.
   B.   Manipulating, caressing or fondling the human genitals, the human pubic
area, the human anus, or the human female breast with the intent to excite or
arouse the actors or any other person.
   C.   Flagellation or torture by or upon a person for purposes of sexual
gratification or pleasure of the actors or other persons, or the condition of
being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained for purposes of sexual
gratification of pleasure of the actors or other persons. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003,
eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-5: ZONING:
Sexually oriented businesses licensed pursuant to this chapter shall only be
allowed in areas zoned for such use. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-6: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Business License: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
sexually oriented business without first obtaining a sexually oriented business
license. The business license shall specify the type of business for which it
is obtained.
   B.   Employee License: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to
employ or for any individual to be employed by a sexually oriented business in
the capacity of a "sexually oriented business employee", as defined in section
4-6-4 of this chapter, unless that employee first obtains a sexually oriented
business employee license. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-7: CATEGORIES OF BUSINESS LICENSES; LICENSE FOR MORE THAN ONE CATEGORY
RESTRICTED:
   A.   The categories of sexually oriented businesses are:
      1.   Outcall services.
      2.   Adult businesses.
      3.   Seminude entertainment businesses.
      4.   Seminude dancing agency.
   B.   No business may be licensed for more than one category of sexually
oriented business; except, that a business may have licenses both for outcall
services and as a seminude dancing agency. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-8: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
   A.   Before any applicant may be licensed to operate a sexually oriented
business or as a sexually oriented business employee pursuant to this chapter,
the applicant shall submit, on a form to be provided by the county, along with
all appropriate attachments, all of the following information:
      1.   The correct legal name of the applicant.
      2.   Any other names or aliases used by the applicant.
      3.   The applicant's age, date and place of birth.
      4.   The applicant's height.
      5.   The applicant's weight.
      6.   The applicant's hair color.
      7.   The applicant's eye color.
      8.   The applicant's present business address and telephone number.
      9.   The applicant's present residence address and telephone number.
      10.   The applicant's Utah driver's license or identification number.
      11.   The applicant's social security number.
      12.   Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least eighteen
(18) years of age or, in the case of employees to be employed in businesses
where a different age is required, proof of the required age.
      13.   Two (2) color photographs of the applicant clearly showing the
individual's face and the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by a
local law enforcement agency. For applicants not residing in the county, the
fingerprints shall be on a form provided by a law enforcement agency located in
the jurisdiction where the applicant resides. Fees for the photographs and
fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant directly to the issuing agency.
      14.   For any individual required to obtain a sexually oriented business
employee license to perform outcall services or as a seminude entertainer, a
certificate from the county health department, or other health agency or
personnel designated by the county, stating that the individual has, within
thirty (30) days immediately preceding the date of the application, been
examined and found to be free of any contagious or communicable disease.
      15.   A statement of the business, occupation and employment history of
the applicant for three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the filing
of the application.
      16.   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the date of the
filing of the application, including whether such applicant ever had a license,
permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked or suspended, or has
had any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked or
suspended in the county or any other jurisdiction. In the event of any such
denial, revocation or suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or
denying jurisdiction and state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation
or suspension. A copy of any order or denial, revocation or suspension shall be
attached to the statement.
      17.   A statement detailing all criminal convictions or pleas of nolo
contendere, except those which have been expunged and minor traffic offenses
(any traffic offense designated as a felony shall not be construed as a minor
traffic offense), and the disposition of all such arrests occurring within the
five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the application. The statement
shall include the date, place, and nature of each conviction or plea of nolo
contendere and the sentence imposed for each such conviction or plea of nolo
contendere. The statement shall also identify the convicting jurisdiction and
the sentencing court and provide the case numbers or docket numbers for each
such incident. Application for a sexually oriented business or employee license
shall constitute a waiver of disclosure of any criminal conviction or plea of
nolo contendere for the purposes of any proceeding involving the business or
employee license.
      18.   A description of the services to be provided by the business, with
sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to determine what business
will be transacted on the premises, together with a schedule of usual fees for
services to be charged by the licensee and any rules, regulations or employment
guidelines under or by which the business intends to operate. This description
shall also include:
         a.   The hours that the business or service will be open to the public
and the methods of promoting the health and safety of employees and patrons and
preventing them from engaging in illegal activity;
         b.   The methods of supervision preventing the employees from engaging
in acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities;
         c.   The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this chapter or other statutes or ordinances; and
         d.   The methods of screening employees and customers in order to
promote the health and safety of employees and customers and prevent the
transmission of disease, and prevent the commission of acts of prostitution or
other criminal activity.
      19.   For adult businesses and seminude entertainment businesses, a
diagram drawn to scale of the business premises. The diagram need not be a
professional engineer's or architect's rendering; however, the diagram must
show marked internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures and ratings for
illumination capacity. The design and construction shall conform to the
following:
         a.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Lighting shall be of sufficient illumination capacity to allow said
unobstructed view from the manager's station;
         b.   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all
windows, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded; and
         c.   For seminude entertainment businesses and adult theaters, a solid
physical barrier at least three feet (3') high and six inches (6") wide shall
separate all performing areas from areas where customers and patrons are
permitted.
   B.   In the event the applicant is not the owner of record of the real
property upon which the proposed business is to be located, the application
must be accompanied by a notarized statement from the legal or equitable owner
of the possessory interest in the property specifically acknowledging the type
of business for which the applicant seeks a license for the property. In
addition to furnishing such notarized statement, the applicant shall furnish
the name, address and phone number of the owner of record of the property, as
well as the copy of the lease or rental agreement pertaining to the premises in
which the business is to be located.
   C.   If the applicant is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
limited liability company, limited liability partnership or any other
nonindividual legal entity, the information required for individual applicants
shall be submitted for each officer, trustee and director of the applicant
entity and for any partner, member or shareholder holding more than ten percent
(10%) of the stock of the applicant entity. Any individual or legal entity
doing business under an assumed name shall provide the required information for
the principal operating under the assumed name.
   D.   All corporate and other nonindividual entity applicants shall identify
each individual authorized to sign the checks for the entity. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-
2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-9: BOND REQUIRED:
Each applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented
business employee license shall post with the county business license authority
a cash or corporate surety bond payable to the county in the amount of two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00). In the event that funds are drawn against the
cash or surety bond to pay such fines, the bond shall be replenished to two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) within fifteen (15) days of the date of notice of
any draw against it. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-10: FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: Each applicant for a sexually oriented business
license or a sexually oriented business employee license shall submit with the
application an application and licensing fee pursuant to the schedule
established by resolution of the county commissioners. The application and
licensing fee may include:
      1.   An annual business license fee;
      2.   A one time, nonrefundable investigation fee; and
      3.   An annual sexually oriented business employee license fee.
   B.   No Proration: The application and licensing fee shall not be prorated
to reflect any portion of the license year but shall be paid in full without
regard to the date of application. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-11: APPLICATION SUBMITTED TO REVIEWING AGENCIES:
Upon receipt of an application for a sexually oriented business license, the
county business license authority shall distribute copies of the application
and all relevant attached materials to the local or regional health department,
the county fire department or the county fire district, the local law
enforcement agency, the county building official, the county zoning official
and the county planning commission for their review and approval. Each such
agency or department shall limit its review of the application to those matters
under its jurisdiction. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-12: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE; ISSUANCE; CHANGES IN INFORMATION:
   A.   The county business license authority shall approve the issuance of a
license to an applicant within thirty (30) days after receipt of an
application, unless one or more of the following is found:
      1.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age, or any higher age
if the license sought so requires;
      2.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the county of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed upon the applicant
in relation to a sexually oriented business;
      3.   The applicant has failed to answer or has falsely answered a
material question or request for information;
      4.   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this chapter within two (2) years immediately preceding the application.
      5.   The business premises do not conform to the standards set forth in
subsection 4-6-8A19 of this chapter.
      6.   The proposed business premises have not received the approval of the
reviewing agencies and departments enumerated in section
4-6-11 of this chapter.
      7.   The license fees required by this chapter or by other ordinances
have not been paid.
      8.   The applicant has been convicted or pled nolo contendere to a crime
involving prostitution; exploitation of prostitution; aggravated promotion of
prostitution; aggravated exploitation of prostitution; solicitation of sex
acts; sex acts for hire; compelling prostitution; aiding prostitution; sale,
distribution or display of material harmful to minors; sexual performance by
minors; possession of child pornography; public lewdness; indecent exposure;
any crime involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child; sexual assault or
aggravated sexual assault; rape; forcible sodomy; forcible sexual abuse;
incest; harboring a runaway child; criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation
to commit any of the foregoing offenses or offenses involving similar elements
from any jurisdiction regardless of the exact title of the offense for which:
a) less than two (2) years have elapsed from the date of conviction if the
conviction is for a misdemeanor offense; or b) less than five (5) years have
elapsed from the date of conviction if the conviction is for a felony offense.
      9.   The applicant is otherwise in violation of this chapter.
   B.   If any agency or department enumerated in section
4-6-11 of this chapter cannot complete its review of the proposed business
premises within the thirty (30) day period, the agency or department may obtain
from the county business license authority an extension of time of no more than
fifteen (15) days for its review. The total time within which the county must
approve or deny a license shall not exceed forty five (45) days from the
receipt of the application.
   C.   Upon receipt of an application, all departments required to review the
application shall determine, within seven (7) days, whether or not the
application contains all of the information necessary for processing.
Incomplete applications shall immediately be returned to the applicant with a
specification of the items which are incomplete.
   D.   The time for processing applications specified in this section shall
begin to run from the receipt of a complete application.
   E.   In the event that a license for a sexually oriented business or
sexually oriented business employee has not been disapproved within thirty (30)
days (or 45 if an extension has been granted), the county business license
authority shall issue the license pending completion of the county's review.
Any license issued pursuant to this subsection may be revoked by the county
pursuant to the revocation procedures set forth in section
4-1-18 of this title if, upon completion of a full review, the county business
license authority determines that the license should have been denied.
   F.   Any change in the information required to be submitted under this
chapter for a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented
business employee license shall be provided, in writing, to the county business
license authority within fourteen (14) days of such change. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-
2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-13: TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
Sexually oriented business licenses and sexually oriented business employee
licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid from the date of
issuance through January 1 of the following year and may be renewed each year
by paying the required annual license fees. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-
2003)
4-6-14: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
Sexually oriented business licenses granted under this chapter shall not be
transferable. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-15: DISPLAY OF LICENSES:
   A.   Business License: All sexually oriented businesses licensed pursuant to
this chapter shall display the license granted pursuant to this chapter in a
prominent location within the business premises.
   B.   Employee License: All individuals licensed pursuant to this chapter
shall carry their sexually oriented business employee license on their person
at all times while engaged in licensed activities within the corporate
boundaries of the county. If the individual is nude or seminude, such license
shall be visibly displayed in the same room in which the employee is
performing.
   C.   Failure To Show License: It is unlawful to fail to show the appropriate
licenses while engaged in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries
of the county when requested to do so by any law enforcement officer or other
the county official. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-16: BUSINESS LOCATION AND NAME:
   A.   It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued pursuant to
this chapter at any location other than the licensed premises. Any location to
which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by said business shall
require a separate license.
   B.   It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business under
any name other than the business name specified in the application. (Ord. 4.30,
6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-17: ADVERTISEMENTS REQUIRE LICENSE INFORMATION:
All sexually oriented business advertisements shall state that the sexually
oriented business or sexually oriented business employee is licensed by the
county and shall include the license number. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-
2003)
4-6-18: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Requirements: The licensing provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to any licensed sex therapist, licensed physician, licensed nurse,
licensed psychologist or licensed educator acting within the scope of his or
her profession or employment.
   B.   Legitimate Artistic Modeling:
      1.   The county does not intend to unreasonably or improperly prohibit
legitimate modeling which may occur in a state of nudity for purposes protected
by the first amendment or similar state protections. The county does intend to
prohibit prostitution and related offenses occurring under the guise of nude
modeling. Notwithstanding the provisions of section
4-6A-7 of this chapter, a licensed outcall employee may appear in a state of
nudity before a customer or patron, provided a written contract for such
appearance was entered into between the customer or patron and the employee and
signed by both the customer or patron and the employee at least twenty four
(24) hours before the nude appearance. All of the other applicable provisions
of this chapter shall still apply to such nude appearance.
      2.   In the event of a contract for nude modeling signed more than forty
eight (48) hours in advance of the modeling or appearance, the individual to
appear nude shall not be required to obtain a license pursuant to this chapter.
During any such unlicensed nude appearance, it shall be unlawful to:
         a.   Appear nude or seminude in the presence of persons under the age
of eighteen (18);
         b.   Allow or agree to allow any physical contact between the
contracting party or any third party and the individual appearing nude;
         c.   Commit prostitution, solicitation of prostitution, solicitation
of a minor, or activities harmful to a minor;
         d.   Perform or participate in any specified sexual activity; or
         e.   Allow or agree to allow the contracting party or any other person
to masturbate in the presence of the individual appearing nude. (Ord. 4.30, 6-
2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6-19: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter not otherwise classified herein or elsewhere in
this code shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003; amd. 2005 Code)
4-6-20: NO VESTED RIGHTS:
It is hereby declared that none of the provisions contained in this chapter
shall vest any rights in any person, unincorporated association, corporation,
partnership, or other legal entity, and this chapter may be amended by the
county commissioners at any time. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003; amd.
2005 Code)
ARTICLE A.  PREMISES AND ACTIVITIES REGULATIONS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
4-6A-1: Definitions
4-6A-2: Prohibitions And Restrictions Generally
4-6A-3: Outcall Services; Operation Requirements
4-6A-4: Interior Design Of Premises
4-6A-5: Seminude Dancing
4-6A-6: Activities Of Patrons
4-6A-7: Obscene Conduct
4-6A-8: Enforcement And Penalties
4-6A-9: Appeals
4-6A-10: No Vested Rights
4-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions set forth in section
4-6-4 of this chapter shall apply throughout this article. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-
2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6A-2: PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY:
It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented
business employee to: (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003; amd. 2005 Code)
   A.   Location 1 : Locate any premises or conduct any sexually oriented
business within one thousand feet (1,000') of the following:
      1.   Any church;
      2.   Any school;
      3.   Any licensed daycare or childcare facility;
      4.   Any public park;
      5.   Any residence; or
      6.   Any other sexually oriented business licensed under this chapter;
   B.   Minors:
      1.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years on the licensed
premises of any sexually oriented business; except, that in adult businesses
which exclude minors from less than all of the business premises, minors shall
not be permitted in excluded areas;
      2.   Conduct any outcall business with persons under the age of eighteen
(18) years;
   C.   Alcoholic Beverages: Allow or agree to allow any alcohol to be stored,
used or consumed on or in the licensed premises;
   D.   Controlled Substances:
      1.   Allow or agree to allow any illegal possession, use, sale or
distribution of a controlled substance on the licensed premises;
      2.   Allow or agree to allow any sexually oriented business employee to
possess, use, sell or distribute controlled substances while engaged in the
activities of the business;
   E.   Locked Premises: Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked
while any customer is in the licensed premises;
   F.   Gambling: Allow or agree to allow gambling to take place in the
licensed premises;
   G.   Inappropriate Touching: Allow or agree to allow any touching of a
patron or customer by a sexually oriented business employee;
   H.   Prostitution: Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution,
solicitation of prostitution, solicitation of a minor or activities harmful to
a minor;
   I.   Sexual Acts: Engage in any specified sexual activity, while performing
or working as a sexually oriented business employee, in the business premises,
or in the presence of a business customer or patron;
   J.   Nudity: Appear in a state of nudity in the presence of any customer or
patron or allow any licensed employee or any other person to appear in a state
of nudity in the presence of any customer or patron; except, that outcall
service employees in compliance with the contract provisions contained in
subsection 4-6-18B of this title may appear nude subject to the limitations of
that subsection;
   K.   Masturbation: Allow or agree to allow a patron or customer to
masturbate in the presence of a sexually oriented business employee or on the
premises of a sexually oriented business; or
   L.   Refusing Access To Officials: Prevent a peace officer or other county
official from accessing the premises of any sexually oriented business. (Ord.
4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-9-16 of this code.
4-6A-3: OUTCALL SERVICES; OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
Failure by any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented business
employee providing outcall services in the county to comply with the following
requirements is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code: (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003; amd. 2005 Code)
   A.   All businesses licensed to provide outcall services shall provide to
each patron a written contract in receipt of pecuniary compensation for
services. The contract shall clearly state the type of services to be
performed, the length of time such services shall be performed, the total
amount such services shall cost the patron, and any special terms or conditions
relating to the services to be performed. The contract need not include the
name of the patron. The licensee shall keep and maintain a copy of each written
contract entered into pursuant to this section for a period not less than one
year from the date of service. The contracts shall be numbered and entered into
a register listing the contract number, date, names of all employees involved
in the contract and pecuniary compensation paid.
   B.   All outcall services shall maintain an open office or telephone at
which the licensee or licensee's designated agent may be personally contacted
during all hours outcall employees are working. The address and phone number of
the licensed location shall appear and be included in all patron contracts and
published advertisements.
   C.   Outcall services shall not advertise in such a manner that would lead a
reasonably prudent person to conclude that specified sexual activities may be
performed by the outcall employee.
   D.   Outcall services shall not provide rooms, booths or other physical
facilities for use by customers nor shall customers be permitted to enter the
premises of an outcall service. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6A-4: INTERIOR DESIGN OF PREMISES:
It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any business licensed as a seminude entertainment
business or as an adult business to: (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003; amd.
2005 Code)
   A.   Bed, Sofa, Mattress: Permit a bed, sofa, mattress or similar item in
any room on the premises; except, that a sofa may be placed in a reception room
open to the public or in any office or other room to which patrons are not
admitted; and except, that in an adult theater, such items may be on the stage
as part of a performance.
   B.   Locked Doors: Allow any outside door, restroom door or a door to any
room used for the sexually oriented business, except for a door to an office
which is off limits to patrons, to be locked or lockable from the inside.
   C.   Room Dividers: Provide any room in which the employee or employees and
the patron or patrons are alone together without a separation by a solid
physical barrier at least three feet (3') high and six inches (6") wide. The
patron or patrons shall remain on one side of the barrier and the employee or
employees shall remain on the other side of the barrier. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003,
eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6A-5: SEMINUDE DANCING:
   A.   Unauthorized Seminude Dancing: It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to perform in a state of seminudity as a
professional dancer, model, performer or otherwise on the premises of a
business licensed as a sexually oriented business, either gratuitously or for
compensation, unless that person is licensed as a sexually oriented business
employee.
   B.   Seminude Dancing Agency: It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any individual or entity to furnish or book the
services of a professional dancer, model or performer to appear in a state of
seminudity for pecuniary compensation in or for any seminude entertainment
business or adult theater unless such agency is a licensed seminude dancing
agency and unless such dancer, model or performer is a licensed sexually
oriented business employee.
   C.   Activities Of Dancers: It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any professional dancer, model or performer, while
performing in or for any seminude entertainment business or adult theater, to:
      1.   Have any manner of physical contact with any other person;
      2.   Throw any object or clothing from the performance area;
      3.   Accept any money or any other object directly from a patron;
      4.   Allow any other person to touch the performer or to place any money
or object on the performer or within the costume or person of the performer; or
      5.   Place anything within the performer's costume or adjust or move the
performer's costume while performing so as to render the performer in a state
of nudity. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003; amd. 2005 Code)
4-6A-6: ACTIVITIES OF PATRONS:
It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any patron of any sexually oriented business to touch
in any manner any performer; to place any money or object on or within the
costume or person of any performer; or to give or offer to give to any such
performer any drinks, money or object while such performer is performing;
except, that money may be placed on the stage to picked up by the performer by
hand only. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003; amd. 2005 Code)
4-6A-7: OBSCENE CONDUCT:
It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any owner, operator, or manager or lessee, or any
agent, partner, associate, or employee of such owners, operator, manager, or
lessee, of any place of business or  business which is licensed and regulated
by the county, to allow an entertainer, employee, patron, or any other person
to appear in or on said place of business in a state of nudity or in indecent
attire or lewd dress or to make any obscene exposure of his or her person,
except as permitted under this chapter. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003;
amd. 2005 Code)
4-6A-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses:
      1.   The county may issue a notice suspending or revoking a sexually
oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee license if
the licensee or any agent, principal or employee of the licensee has:
         a.   Violated this article.
         b.   Refused to allow any inspection of the premises of the sexually
oriented business specifically authorized by this article or by any other
statute or ordinance.
         c.   Failed to replenish the cost bond as provided in section
4-6-9 of this chapter.
         d.   Given materially false or misleading information in obtaining the
license.
         e.   Knowingly operated the sexually oriented business or worked under
the employee license during the period when the business  license or employee
license was suspended.
         f.   Committed or solicited an offense in or on the licensed premises,
or allowed or agreed to allow an outcall employee to solicit or commit, on or
off the premises, an offense which would be grounds for denial of a license for
which a conviction has been obtained.
         g.   Been delinquent in payment to the county for ad valorem taxes or
sales taxes related to the sexually oriented business.
      2.   Suspension or revocation shall take effect within ten (10) days of
the issuance of notice unless an appeal is filed as provided in this article.
      3.   The revocation of any sexually oriented business license or sexually
oriented business employee license shall continue for one year from its
effective date, and the licensee shall not be issued another sexually oriented
business license or sexually oriented business employee license within that
time.
   B.   Injunction: An entity or individual who operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business without a valid license or who employs,
or is employed as an employee of a sexually oriented business without a valid
license, or who operates such a business or functions as such an employee in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, is subject to a suit for
injunction and any other remedy available at law or in equity in addition to
the civil and criminal penalties imposed by this section.
   C.   Strict Liability; Criminal Prosecution: Any violation of this article
shall constitute a strict liability offense and shall be subject to criminal
prosecution by the county. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
   D.   Civil Penalties: In addition to criminal prosecution, the county
license authority may require violators of this article to pay a civil penalty
in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Such fines shall be deducted
from the bond posted pursuant to section
4-6-9 of this title unless paid within ten (10) days of notice of the fine or
the final determination after any appeal.
   E.   Defense To Prosecution: It is a defense to prosecution for a violation
under this article that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a
modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school licensed by the state or a public college,
junior college or university; or
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and  operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a public college,
junior college, or university. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6A-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Filing Appeal: If the license is denied or approved with
qualifications, or if a notice of suspension, revocation, or citation of a
civil fine is imposed, the applicant or licensee may file an appeal with the
county business license authority. All appeals must be filed within ten (10)
days of the date of service of the notice of any denial, qualified approval,
suspension, revocation or civil fine. Upon receiving the notice of such appeal,
the county business licensing authority shall schedule a hearing before an
appeals board appointed by the county commissioners for that purpose within
twenty (20) days of the date of the appeal unless such time shall be extended
for good cause.
   B.   Hearing: The appeals board shall hold a public hearing on the record
and take such facts and evidence as is necessary to determine whether the
denial, qualified approval, suspension, revocation or civil fine was proper
under the law. The burden of proof shall be on the county.
   C.   Decision: After the hearing, the appeals board shall have seven (7)
working days, unless extended by the county commissioners for good cause, in
which to render findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommend a ruling to
the county commissioners.
   D.   Objections:
      1.   Either party may object to the recommendation of the appeals board
by filing the party's objection and reasons, in writing, to the county
commissioners within seven (7) days following submission of the recommendation.
In the event the appeals board recommends upholding a suspension or revocation,
the license shall be immediately suspended and shall remain suspended until any
subsequent appeal is decided. If no objections are received within the seven
(7) days, the county commissioners may immediately adopt the recommendation of
the appeals board.
      2.   If objections are received, the board of county commissioners shall
have ten (10) working days to consider such objections before issuing its final
decision. The board of county commissioners may, in its discretion, take
additional evidence or require written memoranda on issues of fact or law. The
standard by which the commissioners shall review the decision of the appeals
board is whether substantial evidence exists in the record to support the
appeals board's recommendation. In the event the board of county commissioners
determines there is not substantial evidence to support the appeals board
recommendation, the appeals board recommendation shall be vacated.
   E.   Judicial Review: An applicant aggrieved by the county commissioners'
final decision shall be entitled to judicial review pursuant to rule 65B, Utah
rules of civil procedure, or any other applicable statute or rule providing for
such review. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003)
4-6A-10: NO VESTED RIGHTS:
It is hereby declared that none of the provisions contained in this article
shall vest any rights in any person, association, corporation, partnership or
other legal entity and this article may be amended by the county commissioners
at any time. (Ord. 4.30, 6-2-2003, eff. 7-1-2003; amd. 2005 Code)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Central Utah District Health Department
5-1-2: Board Of Health
5-1-3: Local Health Employees
5-1-4: County Attorney
5-1-5: Entry Powers For Inspections
5-1-6: Nuisance Abatement Procedures
5-1-1: CENTRAL UTAH DISTRICT HEALTH DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Legislative Authority; Department Created: Utah Code Annotated section
26A-1-105, as amended, authorizes the governing bodies of two (2) or more
contiguous counties to unite in order to create and maintain a district health
department. Millard County, Sevier County, Sanpete County, Juab County, Wayne
County, and Piute County have joined together to create the central Utah
district health department. It is the governing health department for the
county. (1988 Code § 7.01.010)
   B.   Jurisdiction: In all matters relating to public health, the central
Utah district health department has jurisdiction over all areas of the county,
both incorporated and unincorporated regions. (1988 Code § 7.01.020)
   C.   Governing Rules And Regulations: The central Utah district health
department's practices and procedures are dictated by its duly adopted rules
and regulations and the provisions found in Utah Code Annotated title 26A,
chapter 1, as amended. (1988 Code § 7.01.030)
   D.   Local Health Officer: The central Utah district health department's
administrative and executive officer shall be known as the "local health
officer". The local health officer's offices are located in Richfield, Sevier
County, Utah. Said officer's duties and responsibilities are those prescribed
by Utah law and as dictated by local regulations and practices. (1988 Code §
7.01.040)
5-1-2: BOARD OF HEALTH:
The board of county commissioners shall appoint three (3) qualified county
residents as members of the central Utah district board of health. They shall
each serve terms of five (5) years and their qualifications shall be in
compliance with the provisions of the Utah health act as found in Utah Code
Annotated section 26A-1-109; provided, however, that if one of the appointed
members is appointed by virtue of his membership on the board of county
commissioners, he shall serve at the pleasure of the county commissioners.
(1988 Code § 7.01.050)
5-1-3: LOCAL HEALTH EMPLOYEES:
Local health employees are interviewed and selected by the local health
officer. They shall have the requisite qualifications and education for their
particular fields. Their rate of compensation shall be decided by the board of
health. (1988 Code § 7.01.060)
5-1-4: COUNTY ATTORNEY:
When requested by the health officer, the county attorney shall bring action
against violators of the health code. The county attorney shall act as a legal
advisor to the health department and shall defend actions that are brought
against said department 1 . (1988 Code § 7.01.080)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 26A-1-120.
5-1-5: ENTRY POWERS FOR INSPECTIONS:
All authorized health officers, when acting within the scope of their
employment, have the right to enter public places in order to complete their
routine inspections. Such inspections are to ensure compliance with the local
health rules 1 . (1988 Code § 7.01.070)
 
Notes
1 2. UCA § 26A-1-113.
5-1-6: NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Investigation Of Complaints: The health department shall cause every
nuisance dangerous to health and human life, within its jurisdiction, to be
abated. When complaint of such nuisance is made, the board of health shall
cause the matter to be investigated and shall determine whether or not the
alleged nuisance is detrimental to the public health. (1988 Code § 7.04.010)
   B.   Notice Of Nuisance: Whenever the health department shall determine that
a nuisance detrimental to health exists, it shall, in writing, notify the owner
or occupant of the premises where such nuisance may be found and shall order
the abatement or removal pursuant to such order.
   C.   Summary Abatement: The health department may summarily proceed to abate
or remove the nuisance, or it may cause an action to be brought in the name of
the state of Utah by the county attorney for the abatement of such nuisance.
(1988 Code § 7.04.020)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Communicable Diseases
5-2-2: Tobacco Possession, Consumption Or Use In County Jail Prohibited
5-2-3: Abandoned Containers
5-2-4: Dangerous Openings
5-2-5: Adequate Water System Required
5-2-6: Toilet Facilities
5-2-7: Fly And Pest Control
5-2-8: Stagnant Water
5-2-1: COMMUNICABLE DISEASES:
   A.   Report Requirements: It is the duty of every physician or other person
caring for the sick in the county to report to the health department
immediately after such person becomes aware of the existence of any case of a
communicable disease in his or her charge. It is the duty of each and every
person, owner, agent, manager or superintendent of any public or private
institution, or dispensary, hotel, boarding house or rooming house to report in
like manner any inmate, occupant or boarder suffering from any communicable
disease. (1988 Code § 7.08.010)
   B.   Quarantine Rules: The board of health is authorized and empowered to
make all necessary rules to properly quarantine any person who has a contagious
disease or who has been exposed to a contagious disease and to prescribe the
period of quarantine for the various diseases. (1988 Code § 7.08.020)
   C.   Disinfection Requirements:
      1.   Clothing, Bedding And Other Objects: It is unlawful for any person
to give, lend, sell, transmit or expose, without previous disinfection in
accordance with the rules of the board of health, any bedding, clothing, rags
or other objects that have been exposed to infection from any communicable
disease. (1988 Code § 7.08.030)
      2.   Vehicles: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly convey a person
afflicted with a contagious disease in a vehicle or other means of
transportation unless he shall immediately thereafter disinfect his conveyance
in a thorough manner. (1988 Code § 7.08.040)
5-2-2: TOBACCO POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR USE IN COUNTY JAIL PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, consume or make use in any way
of any tobacco, or any derivative thereof, within the confines of the jail or
detention facility operated by the county. "Possess" means to have physical
possession on the person or the immediate vicinity, or to exercise dominion or
control over such proscribed item. Any person who violates this section is
guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 7.06, 5-24-1993; amd. 2005 Code)
5-2-3: ABANDONED CONTAINERS:
It is unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, dwelling or other structure under his control, in a place accessible
to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded refrigerator or any other
container which has an airtight door or lid without first removing said door or
lid. (1988 Code § 7.16.060)
5-2-4: DANGEROUS OPENINGS:
   A.   Dangerous Openings Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
maintain or allow to exist any uncovered or open well, cesspool, privy vault or
other dangerous or opened crevice upon property within the county. (1988 Code §
7.12.010)
   B.   Responsibility Of Owner Or Occupant To Fill Openings: Every owner,
occupant or tenant of property within the county upon which uncovered or open
wells, cesspools, privy vaults or other dangerous or potentially dangerous
openings have been maintained or have existed shall immediately fill in or
cover the same securely. (1988 Code § 7.12.020)
   C.   Failure To Fill; County Perform Work; Costs:
      1.   Any owner, occupant or tenant of property, found in violation of
subsection A of this section, who fails to comply with the provisions of this
section, shall be subject to the direct supervision of the board of county
commissioners. The board shall, by and through its agents, have the right to
enter upon such land and fill in or securely cover any uncovered or open well,
cesspool, privy vault or other dangerous or open crevice. (1988 Code §
7.12.030)
      2.   In the event the county must fill or securely cover any uncovered or
open well, cesspool, privy vault or other opening, as provided in this section,
an action shall lie on the county's behalf against any violator of this section
for the costs so incurred. The county attorney shall, at the request of the
board of county commissioners, proceed against any violator in a civil action
to recover the same. (1988 Code § 7.12.040)
5-2-5: ADEQUATE WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED:
No person shall occupy, lease, or permit the occupancy of any building or
structure in the county, unless one of the following conditions is met:
   A.   The building or structure is connected to a public water system; or
   B.   The building or structure is equipped with an individual water system
that meets state and local potable water standards. The standards shall include
compliance with the applicable plumbing code. Further, the water in all
buildings and structures shall be under adequate pressure and in sufficient
quantity for the drinking, bathing, washing, and proper sanitation of all
occupants.
   C.   For the purposes of this section, sufficient water supply and the
minimum individual underground water right appropriated to a private well
serving no more than one single-family dwelling and accompanying yard will be
0.015 cfs or one acre-foot of water for domestic use. (Ord. 07-09-04, 9-4-2007)
5-2-6: TOILET FACILITIES:
   A.   Facilities Required:
      1.   Dwellings: The owner or occupant of any building used for human
habitation shall install and maintain a water closet. The toilets shall be
installed in compliance with the provisions of the state department of health
code of waste disposal regulations and the applicable plumbing code. It is
unlawful for any person to establish or maintain any privy, vault privy, or
place other than a water closet for the deposit of human waste from dwellings.
(1988 Code § 7.16.010; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Construction Contractors: It is the responsibility of the main
contractors at any construction site to provide adequate toilet facilities for
all workers at the site. (1988 Code § 7.16.020)
      3.   Events: Any person responsible for a scheduled event attracting ten
(10) or more individuals to a location where adequate toilet facilities are not
otherwise available shall be responsible for providing such facilities that
meet the requirements of the state department of health, the applicable
plumbing code and other applicable regulations. (1988 Code § 7.16.030; amd.
2005 Code)
   B.   Temporary Facilities: Any person providing a temporary toilet facility
shall provide for emptying and hauling of the waste from such facility by a
licensed service to an approved site as often as needed while the facility is
in use and within twenty four (24) hours of the termination of the use of the
facility. (1988 Code § 7.16.040)
5-2-7: FLY AND PEST CONTROL:
It is unlawful for any person to permit, or have on his premises, whether owned
or occupied by him, either one or more of the following unsanitary conditions:
   A.   Any privy, cesspool, sink, pit or like place that is not securely
protected from flies and other pests;
   B.   Garbage that is not securely protected from flies and other pests;
   C.   Vegetable waste, trash, litter, rags or refuse of any kind in which
flies and other pests may breed. (1988 Code § 7.04.030; amd. 2005 Code)
5-2-8: STAGNANT WATER:
Any stagnant pool of water in the county is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
It is unlawful for any person to permit any such nuisance to remain or exist on
any property under his control. (1988 Code § 7.04.040)
CHAPTER 3
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Responsibility To Keep Property Clean
5-3-2: Weed Control Standards
5-3-3: Inspections
5-3-4: Notice Of Violation
5-3-5: Abatement By County; Costs
5-3-6: Enforcement Authority
5-3-1: RESPONSIBILITY TO KEEP PROPERTY CLEAN:
It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership or legal entity owning
or occupying real property in the county to let the height of weeds on such
property grow beyond such a height as would constitute a health hazard, or to
fail to remove from the property any such weeds or refuse, unsightly or
deleterious objects or structures, after having been given written notice from
the county health department. (1988 Code § 7.32.010)
5-3-2: WEED CONTROL STANDARDS:
Weeds shall not be permitted to reach such a height as to constitute a health
hazard. In order to decide what constitutes a health hazard, the county health
department shall consider such factors as height, density, the area where the
weeds are located, the potential for hazard, and any other factor that might
aid the department in its determination. Weeds found to be a health hazard
shall be cleared from the property where they are located. The cuttings shall
also be cleared and removed from the premises. (1988 Code § 7.32.020)
5-3-3: INSPECTIONS:
The health department is authorized to make examination and investigation of
all real property in the county to determine whether owners of such property
are complying with the provisions of this chapter. (1988 Code § 7.32.030)
5-3-4: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Upon a determination that a violation of the provisions of this chapter exists,
an authorized health department employee shall ascertain the name of the owner
and a description of the premises where the violation exists. The health
department shall serve notice in writing upon the owner or occupant of such
property, either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to
the owner or occupant at the last known post office address as disclosed by the
records of the county assessor. The health department shall require such owner
or occupant, as the case may be, to eradicate, destroy or remove the weeds,
refuse, objects or structures causing the violation within such time as the
local health officer may designate, which shall be no less than ten (10) days
from the date of service of such notice. If notice has already been served once
during the calendar year directing removal of weeds or refuse, no further need
be served to compel the weed removal during that calendar year. (1988 Code §
7.32.040; amd. 2005 Code)
5-3-5: ABATEMENT BY COUNTY; COSTS:
   A.   County To Abate: If any owner or occupant of property described in the
notice provided in this chapter fails to eradicate or destroy and remove such
weeds, refuse, objects or structures in accordance with such notice, the health
department is authorized to employ necessary assistance and cause such weeds,
refuse, objects or structures to be destroyed or removed.
   B.   Costs To Owner: The department shall prepare an itemized statement of
all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of same and shall mail a
copy thereof to the owner demanding payment within twenty (20) days of the date
of mailing. Such notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered
mail and addressed to the last known address of the property owner. (1988 Code
§ 7.32.050)
   C.   Failure To Pay; Collection Methods: In the event the owner fails to
make payment of the amount set forth in such statement to the county treasurer
within twenty (20) days of the date of mailing, the health department may
either cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law, or refer the
matter to the county treasurer, as provided in this subsection. (1988 Code §
7.32.060)
      1.   Collection By Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of
destruction and removal are pursued through the court, the county shall sue for
and receive judgment for all expenses of destruction and removal, together with
reasonable attorney fees, interest and court costs, and shall execute upon such
judgment in the manner provided by law. (1988 Code § 7.32.070)
      2.   Collection Through Taxes:
         a.   In the event that the health department elects to refer the
expenses of destruction or removal to the county treasurer for inclusion in the
tax notice of the property owner, he shall make, in triplicate, an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in such destruction and removal, and shall
deliver three (3) copies of the statement to the county treasurer within thirty
(30) days after the completion of the work of destroying or removing the weeds,
refuse, objects or structures. (1988 Code § 7.32.080)
         b.   Upon receipt of the itemized statement of the costs of destroying
or removing the weeds, refuse, objects or structures, the county treasurer
shall forthwith mail one copy to the owner of the land from which the same was
removed, together with a notice that objection in writing to the board of
county commissioners may be made within thirty (30) days to the whole or any
part of the statement so filed. The county treasurer shall, at the same time,
deliver a copy of the statement to the clerk of the board of county
commissioners.
         c.   If objections to any statement are filed with the commissioners,
they shall set a date for hearing, giving notice thereof, and upon the hearing
of the matter, fix and determine the actual cost of destruction or removal,
reporting their findings to the county treasurer.
         d.   If no objections to the items of the account are made within
thirty (30) days of the date of mailing, the county treasurer shall enter the
amount of such statement on the assessment rolls of the county in the column
prepared for that purpose. The treasurer shall, within ten (10) days of the
date of the action of the board of county commissioners upon any objections
filed, enter in the prepared column upon the tax rolls the amount found by the
board to be the cost of destruction and removal. If current tax notices have
been mailed, the taxes so incurred may be carried over on the rolls to the
following year.
         e.   After the entry by the county treasurer of the costs of removing
weeds, refuse or unsightly or deleterious objects or structures, the amount so
entered shall have the force and effect of a valid judgment of the district
court, and shall be a lien upon the lands from which the weeds, refuse or
structures were destroyed and removed, and shall be collected by the county
treasurer at the time of and in the manner provided for the payment of general
taxes. (1988 Code § 7.32.090)
5-3-6: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The board of health may promulgate regulations, not inconsistent with this
chapter, to enforce the provisions contained herein. (1988 Code § 7.32.100)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Administrative And Enforcement Officials
5-4-3: Rules And Regulations
5-4-4: Permit Requirements
5-4-5: Exclusive Service
5-4-6: Fees
5-4-7: Accumulation Of Wastes Prohibited
5-4-8: Unauthorized, Unlawful Disposal Of Solid Waste
5-4-9: Transporting Solid Waste; Vehicle Requirements
5-4-10: Disposal At Approved Facilities; Dumps Prohibited
5-4-11: Scavenging Prohibited
5-4-12: Animal Carcasses
5-4-13: Windblown Refuse
5-4-14: Hazardous Wastes
5-4-15: Enforcement Procedures
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the meanings given in this section:
CINDERS: The residue of materials burned in boilers, furnaces and heating
plants of public buildings, places of business, apartment houses, hotels and
manufacturing plants.
DEAD ANIMALS: Animals that have died from any cause except those slaughtered
for human consumption.
GARBAGE: Swill and all animal, vegetable and food refuse from kitchens of
residences, hotels, cafes, restaurants and places where food is prepared for
human consumption.
MARKET WASTE: Condemned or decayed or unsound vegetables, meat, fish and fruit,
and all waste and offal thereof from markets, stores and factories, and all
vegetable waste from such markets, stores and factories.
NIGHTSOIL: The contents from privy vaults, cesspools, septic tanks, grease
tanks and water closets.
REFUSE: A. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, metal, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass,
crockery, other mineral wastes;
   B.   Noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to, street sweepings,
dirt, leaves, catchbasin dirt, and contents of litter receptacles.
   C.   "Refuse" shall not, however, include earth and wastes from building
operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from industrial
processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing wastes, boiler
house cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings.
STOVE ASHES: The residue of material burned in stoves and furnaces in private
residences, but does not include the residue from furnaces in apartment houses,
hotels, business houses, heating or manufacturing plants.
TRADE WASTE: All discarded wooden boxes, barrels, broken lumber, cardboard
boxes, cartons, wastepaper, leather, rubber, excelsior, cuttings, sweepings,
rags and other inflammable waste materials, and all discarded trade or
manufacturing refuse from stores, factories or other places of business which
are not included within the definitions of "garbage", "stove ashes" and "market
waste". (1988 Code § 7.40.010; amd. 2005 Code)
5-4-2: ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   County Administrator: The county administrator (herein referred to as
"administrator") is responsible for the administrative management of this
chapter and the rules and regulations authorized in section
5-4-3 of this chapter. The county commissioners may appoint any other
individual to act as the administrator of the solid waste management program.
(1988 Code § 7.40.020)
   B.   County Sheriff: The county sheriff's office, hereinafter known as the
enforcement agency, is responsible for the enforcement of those aspects of this
chapter related to the protection of the public safety, health, welfare, and
environment and the rules and regulations authorized in section
5-4-3 of this chapter. (1988 Code § 7.40.070)
5-4-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The county commissioners shall adopt, revise, revoke and enforce rules
and regulations governing the health, safety, welfare and environmental aspects
of solid waste management within the county. Such rules and regulations must be
compatible with state law and applicable state rules and regulations.
   B.   The county commissioners may also adopt by ordinance regulations and
guidelines governing the establishment and administration of the county solid
waste management program. Three (3) copies of said regulations and guidelines
will be made available to the general public for its use and inspection. (1988
Code § 7.40.030)
5-4-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
The administrator is authorized to issue permits for all elements of solid
waste management, including alteration of existing facilities or systems. All
such permits are nontransferable, are for a term of one year and are subject to
the fees set forth in section
5-4-6 of this chapter. All permits so issued shall be conditioned upon
observance of the laws of the state, the ordinances of the county commissioners
and the rules and regulations authorized herein. (1988 Code § 7.40.040)
5-4-5: EXCLUSIVE SERVICE:
All generators of solid waste, other than those operating under permits as
authorized by the administrator, shall use the services of the local
government, or its contractor, in which the solid waste is generated. (1988
Code § 7.40.050)
5-4-6: FEES:
The county commissioners is responsible for establishing by resolution minimum
fees for residential and commercial users of the county solid waste system.
Each municipality within the county that participates in the sanitary landfill
is responsible for the establishment and collection of fees for residential and
commercial users within the boundary of their respective municipalities;
provided, however, that said fees so established shall not be less than the
minimum amounts established by the county. The fees established by each
municipality need not be equal in amount. (1988 Code § 7.40.060)
5-4-7: ACCUMULATION OF WASTES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to allow garbage, ashes, market waste,
trade waste, manure, nightsoil or other refuse to accumulate upon premises
under his control, or to fail to remove the same within twenty four (24) hours
after notification from the board of health, the solid waste management
administrator, or the county sheriff's department.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit junk, scrap metal,
scrap lumber, wastepaper products, discarded building materials, or any unused,
abandoned vehicle, vehicles or abandoned parts, machinery or machinery parts,
or any appliances or appliance parts, or other waste materials to be in or upon
any yard, garden, lawn, outbuilding or premises in the county, unless in
connection with a business enterprise lawfully situated and licensed for the
same. (1988 Code § 7.40.200)
5-4-8: UNAUTHORIZED, UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE:
It is unlawful to dump, put, place or abandon any cinders, common waste,
garbage, market waste, trade waste, organic material, refuse, stove ashes,
building materials, machinery, equipment, automobiles, furniture, junk or waste
of any nature, or to dump, put, place or deposit upon any private property any
of the above items without the consent of the owner. Even though the consent is
obtained, if the materials placed upon the property have a tendency to become
obnoxious, a nuisance or a danger to the health, welfare, peace or safety, or
which annoy the repose of any party, said property shall be immediately, as
soon as physically feasible under the circumstances, covered or conditioned in
such a manner as to remove the objectionable features of the materials
deposited. (1988 Code § 7.40.140)
5-4-9: TRANSPORTING SOLID WASTE; VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   A.   Vehicles To Be Covered: It is unlawful for any person to haul, convey
or transport through or upon any of the public streets any garbage, ashes,
market wastes, trade wastes, manure, nightsoil, loose paper, scrap lumber,
excelsior, tree limbs, bush clippings, lawn clippings, house refuse, yard
refuse, liquid wastes, or any other refuse materials in open trucks, open
trailers or other open conveyances, unless covered completely with a heavy duty
canvas or other heavy acceptable material at all times when the vehicle is
being used for the collection of, or carrying, transporting or hauling of
garbage, manure, market waste, nightsoil, dead animals or other refuse, and is
to be driven for a distance of one mile or more without making a stop. (1988
Code § 7.40.150)
   B.   Spilling On Public Ways And Premises Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, private or public corporation
engaged in the collection and transportation of garbage, trade waste, rubbish
or other matter of any kind to permit, allow or cause any of such matter to
fall and remain on any property, place, building, premises, street, road or
highway.
      2.   It shall be the duty of any person, firm or corporation engaged in
the collection of garbage, market waste, trade waste, rubbish or matter of any
kind to see and ensure that all such matter is procured and disposed of by
himself, his agents or employees in a manner which shall not be offensive or
filthy in relation to any person, place, building, premises, street, road or
highway. (1988 Code § 7.40.160)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 7-5-11 of this code.
5-4-10: DISPOSAL AT APPROVED FACILITIES; DUMPS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, city, town, or municipality to dispose
of any materials mentioned in this chapter at any place except in the county
sanitary landfill, an approved sanitary landfill, or authorized refuse
collection stations, except in areas of the county where compliance would be
unusually costly or difficult. (1988 Code § 7.40.170)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to use or operate a dump. The exception
to this section would be in those areas of the county where access to the
sanitary landfill, or any established collection site would be unusually
difficult or costly. (1988 Code § 7.40.180)
5-4-11: SCAVENGING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to scavenge any solid waste within the boundaries
of the county. (1988 Code § 7.40.190)
5-4-12: ANIMAL CARCASSES:
   A.   Responsibility For Disposal: The person that owns the dead animal is
responsible for delivering it to an approved dead animal section of an approved
sanitary landfill. Dead animals shall not be disposed of at a collection
station.
   B.   Permitting To Remain On Premises Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person knowingly to permit any dead animal to remain upon the premises of such
person or for the owner of any dead animal knowingly to permit the same to
remain upon any public street or other public property or upon any premises
within the county for more than two (2) days without notifying the solid waste
administrator of the location of the same.
   C.   Removal By County; Costs To Owner: If the owner of such dead animal
does not remove it himself or cause it to be properly removed, the county solid
waste administrator may cause it to be removed and thereupon assess the actual
costs of such against the owner, and may avail himself of all remedies in law
and equity to enforce such removal and recover the costs thereof. (1988 Code §
7.40.210)
   D.   Carcasses In Water Bodies Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
throw or deposit any dead animal or fowl, or any live animal or fowl for the
purposes of drowning, in any reservoir, canal, creek or other stream or body of
water within the county. (1988 Code § 7.40.220)
5-4-13: WINDBLOWN REFUSE:
It is unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate in the county, except in a
covered container, any dust, ashes or trash of such material that it can be
blown by the wind. (1988 Code § 7.40.230)
5-4-14: HAZARDOUS WASTES:
No person shall place any hazardous waste in any container for collection,
transport, processing or disposal until the enforcement agency has approved in
writing the method of storage, transport, processing, or disposal. (1988 Code §
7.40.240)
5-4-15: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Inspections: In order to ensure compliance with the laws of the state,
the ordinances of the county, and the rules and regulations authorized herein,
the enforcement agency is authorized to inspect at reasonable times all phases
of solid waste management within the county. (1988 Code § 7.40.080)
   B.   Notice Of Violation: In all instances where such inspections reveal
violations of this chapter, the rules and regulations governing solid waste
management, or the laws of the state, the enforcement agency shall issue
written notice for each such violation, stating therein the violation or
violations found, the date and time of such violation and the corrective
measure to be taken, together with the time in which such corrections shall be
made. All such notices shall be kept in a clearly marked file and shall be
available for public inspection during regular business hours. (1988 Code §
7.40.090)
   C.   Citations:
      1.   In all notices involving permit holders where the corrective
measures have not been taken within the time specified, the enforcement agency
shall cite the violator to appear before the administrator; provided, however,
in those cases where an extension of time will permit correction and where
there is not a public health hazard created by the delay, one extension of
time, not to exceed the original period, may be given.
      2.   In all instances where the inspections authorized in subsection A of
this section reveal violations of the laws of the state, the county ordinances,
and its adopted rules and regulations, or when the enforcement agency is aware
of any such violation, the violator shall be cited to appear in court at a day
and time shown in the citation. (1988 Code § 7.40.100)
   D.   Hearing: The enforcement agency shall appear, through its authorized
personnel, and present its evidence, through the county attorney's office, of
the violations charged. The permit holder cited may appear in person or through
his attorney and may cross examine the enforcement agency witnesses prior to
presenting evidence on his behalf. (1988 Code § 7.40.110)
   E.   Decision And Opinion: The administrator shall decide the issue and
shall, within ten (10) days of the conclusion of the hearing, render an opinion
in writing, in which opinion he may suspend or revoke the permit or permits
involved in the hearing. (1988 Code § 7.40.120)
   F.   Injunction: In all cases where the violation of this chapter, the rules
and regulations authorized herein, or the laws of the state create an immediate
threat to the safety, health, welfare or environment of the residents of the
county, the enforcement agency shall cite the violator, stating therein the
necessary corrective measures to be taken, and shall order same to begin
immediately. If such corrective measures are not promptly taken, the
enforcement agency shall notify the county attorney who shall immediately apply
to the court for an injunction prohibiting further violation as shown in the
notice authorized in subsection B of this section. The provisions of this
subsection shall be in addition to and not in substitution of any other section
or sections. (1988 Code § 7.40.130)
CHAPTER 5
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
SECTION:
5-5-1: Short Title
5-5-2: Purpose
5-5-3: Definitions
5-5-4: Drinking Water Source Protection Zones Established
5-5-5: Permitted Uses
5-5-6: Prohibited Uses
5-5-7: Administration And Enforcement; Nonliability Of County
5-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MILLARD COUNTY DRINKING WATER SOURCE
PROTECTION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 01-04-09, 4-9-2001, eff. 4-28-2001)
5-5-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the provision of a safe and sanitary
drinking water supply for the inhabitants of the county by the establishment of
drinking water source protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells
or springs, as determined and certified by the division of drinking water of
the state after application by the owner of a public water system, which are
the supply sources for all public water systems in the county and by the
designation and regulation of property uses and conditions which may be
maintained within such zones. (Ord. 01-04-09, 4-9-2001, eff. 4-28-2001)
5-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
DESIGN STANDARD: A control which is implemented by a potential contamination
source to prevent discharges to the ground water. Spill protection is an
example of a "design standard".
LAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES: Zoning and nonzoning controls which include, but
are not limited to, the following: zoning and subdivision ordinances, site plan
reviews, design and operating standards, source prohibitions, purchase of
property and development rights, public education programs, ground water
monitoring, household hazardous waste collection programs, water conservation
programs, memoranda of understanding, written contracts and agreements, and so
forth.
POLLUTION SOURCE: Point source discharges of contaminants to ground water or
potential discharges of the liquid forms of "extremely hazardous substances"
which are stored in containers in excess of "applicable threshold planning
quantities" as specified in SARA title III. Examples of possible pollution
sources include, but are not limited to, the following: storage facilities that
store the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks, drain
fields, class V underground injection wells, landfills, open dumps, landfilling
of sludge and septage, manure piles, salt piles, pit privies, and animal
feeding operations with more than ten (10) animal units. The following clarify
the definition of "pollution source":
  Animal Feeding Operation: A lot or facility where the following conditions
are met: animals or poultry have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period, and crops, vegetation forage growth, or post harvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
Two (2) or more animal or poultry feeding operations under common ownership are
considered to be a single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they
use a common area, or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
  Animal Unit: A unit of measurement for any animal or poultry feeding or
confinement operation calculated by a formula involving the number and type of
animal or poultry, its size or weight, with such determination to be in
accordance with current standards of the Utah division of water quality and the
USDA natural resources conservation service (NRCS).
  Extremely Hazardous Substances: Those substances which are identified in the
sec. 302(EHS) column of the "Title III List Of Lists Consolidated List Of
Chemicals Subject To Reporting Under SARA Title III", (EPA 560/4-91-011).
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: Any facility or site which employs an activity
or procedure which may potentially contaminate ground water. A "pollution
source" is also a potential contamination source.
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over "hazardous
waste" as defined in this section.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid waste, including putrescible
wastes or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
SEPTIC TANK/DRAIN FIELD SYSTEM: A system which is comprised of a septic tank
and a drain field which accepts domestic wastewater from buildings or
facilities for subsurface treatment and disposal. By design, septic tank/drain
field system discharges cannot be controlled with design standards.
SPRING: Those places where water issues or flows from the ground or earth.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments. (Ord. 01-04-09, 4-9-2001, eff. 4-28-2001)
5-5-4: DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION ZONES ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established use districts to be known as zones one, two, three
and four of the drinking water source protection area, identified and described
as follows:
   A.   Zone One: Zone one is the area within a one hundred foot (100') radius
from the wellhead or spring.
   B.   Zone Two: Zone two is the area within a two hundred fifty (250) day
ground water time of travel to the wellhead or spring, the boundary of the
aquifer(s) which supplies water to the ground water source, or the ground water
divide, whichever is closer.
   C.   Zone Three: Zone three (waiver criteria zone) is the area within a
three (3) year ground water time of travel to the wellhead or spring, or margin
of the collection area, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to
the ground water source, or the ground water divide, whichever is closer.
   D.   Zone Four: Zone four is the area within a fifteen (15) year ground
water time of travel to the wellhead or spring, the boundary of the aquifer(s)
which supplies water to the ground water source, or the ground water divide,
whichever is closer. (Ord. 01-04-09, 4-9-2001, eff. 4-28-2001)
5-5-5: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted within drinking water source protection
zones:
   A.   Any use permitted within existing agricultural, single-family
residential, multi-family residential, and commercial districts so long as uses
conform to the rules and regulations of the regulatory agencies.
   B.   Any other open land use where any building located on the property is
incidental and accessory to the primary open land use. (Ord. 01-04-09, 4-9-
2001, eff. 4-28-2001)
5-5-6: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within
drinking water sources protection zones, whether or not such use or condition
may otherwise be ordinarily included as part of a use permitted under section
5-5-5 of the chapter:
   A.   Zone One: The location of any "pollution source", as defined in section
5-5-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Zone Two: The location of a pollution source unless its contaminated
discharges can be controlled with design standards.
   C.   Zones Three And Four: The location of a potential contamination source
unless it can be controlled through land management strategies. (Ord. 01-04-09,
4-9-2001, eff. 4-28-2001)
5-5-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; NONLIABILITY OF COUNTY:
The policies and procedures for administration and enforcement of any source
protection zone established pursuant to this chapter shall be the
responsibility and obligation of the owner of the public water system
classified under this chapter. During the process of application for
classification and protection under this chapter, the owner of such public
water system shall agree to indemnify and hold the county harmless from any and
all claims arising out of or in relation to this chapter. (Ord. 01-04-09, 4-9-
2001, eff. 4-28-2001)
CHAPTER 6
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
SECTION:
5-6-1: Purpose
5-6-2: Historic Preservation Commission
5-6-3: Historic Sites List
5-6-4: Historic Landmark Register
5-6-5: Standards For Rehabilitation
5-6-6: Conflicting, Duplicating Provisions
5-6-1: PURPOSE:
The county commissioners recognize that the historical heritage of the county
is among its most valued and important assets. It is therefore the intent of
the county commissioners to identify, preserve, protect and enhance historic
areas and sites lying within the limits of the county. (Ord. 13.00, 10-4-1993)
5-6-2: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Established; A historic preservation commission is hereby
established by the county with the following provisions:
      1.   Membership; Appointment; Term Of Office; Qualifications: The
commission shall consist of a minimum of five (5) members with a demonstrated
interest, competence, or knowledge in historic preservation, appointed by the
county commissioners for terms of not less than two (2) years.
      2.   Professional Members: To the extent available in the county, two (2)
commission members shall be professionals, as defined by national park service
regulations, from the disciplines of history, archaeology, planning,
architecture or architectural history.
      3.   Meetings: The commission shall meet at least twice each year and
conduct business in accordance with the open public meeting laws of the state.
This includes public notification of meeting place, time and agenda items.
      4.   Minutes: Written minutes of each commission meeting shall be
prepared and made available for public inspection.
   B.   Duties: The historic preservation commission shall have the following
duties:
      1.   Survey And Inventory County Historic Resources: The historic
preservation commission shall conduct or cause to be conducted a survey of the
historic, architectural, and archaeological resources within the county. The
survey shall be compatible with the Utah inventory of historic and
archaeological sites. Survey and inventory documents shall be maintained and
shall be open to the public. The survey shall be updated at least every ten
(10) years.
      2.   Review Proposed Nominations To The National Register Of Historic
Places: The historic preservation commission shall review and comment to the
state historic preservation officer on all proposed national registry
nominations for properties within the boundaries of the county. When the
historic preservation commission considers a national register nomination which
is normally evaluated by professionals in specific discipline and the
discipline is not represented on the commission, the commission shall seek
expertise in that area before rendering its decision.
      3.   Provide Advice And Information: The historic preservation commission
shall:
         a.   Act in an advisory role to other officials and departments of
government regarding the identification and protection of local historic and
archaeological resources.
         b.   Work toward the continuing education of citizens regarding
historic preservation and county history.
      4.   Enforcement Of State Historic Preservation Laws: The commission
shall support the enforcement of all state laws relating to historic
preservation. These include, but are not limited to: Utah Code Annotated
section 17A-3-1301, the historic district act; Utah Code Annotated sections 9-
8-305, 307 and 308 regarding the protection of Utah antiquities; and Utah Code
Annotated section 9-8-404 regarding notification of the state historic
preservation office of any known proposed action which will destroy or affect a
site, building or object owned by the state and included on or eligible for the
state or national registers. (Ord. 13.00, 10-4-1993)
5-6-3: HISTORIC SITES LIST:
   A.   Authority To Designate: The historic preservation commission may
designate historic properties to the historic sites list as a means of
providing recognition to and encouraging the preservation of historic
properties in the county.
   B.   Criteria: Any district, building, structure, object or site may be
designated to the historic sites list if it meets all the criteria outlined
below:
      1.   Located Within County: It is located within the official boundaries
of the county.
      2.   Age: It is at least fifty (50) years old.
      3.   Historic Integrity:
         a.   It retains its historic integrity, in that there are no major
alterations or additions that have obscured or destroyed the significant
historic features. Major alterations that would destroy the historic integrity
include, but are not limited to, changes in pitch of the main roof, enlargement
or enclosure of windows on the principal facades, addition of upper stories or
the removal of original upper stories, covering the exterior walls with
nonhistoric materials, moving the resource from its original location to one
that is dissimilar to the original, and additions which significantly detract
from or obscure the original form and appearance of the house when viewed from
the public way.
         b.   If the property does not meet the integrity requirements outlined
in subsection B3a of this section, it may still qualify for designation if it
meets one of the following requirements for exceptional significance:
            (1)   It is directly associated with events of historic
significance in the county.
            (2)   It is closely associated with the lives of persons who were
of historic importance to the county.
            (3)   It exhibits significant methods of construction or materials
that were used within the historic period.
      4.   Documentation: It has been documented according to the Utah state
historic preservation office standards for intensive level surveys (October
1991 version or subsequent revisions), and copies of that documentation have
been placed in the local and state historic preservation files.
   C.   Designation Procedures: Any person, group, or government agency may
nominate a property for listing in the county historic sites list. The
nomination and listing procedures are as follows:
      1.   Completed intensive level survey documentation for each nominated
property must be submitted in duplicate to the historic preservation
commission.
      2.   The commission will review and consider properly submitted
nominations at its next scheduled meeting. The commission will notify the
nominating party, either orally or in writing, one week prior to the meeting
that the nomination will be considered and will place that item on the agenda
posted for the meeting. The one week notification may be waived at the
nominating party's option in order to accommodate "last minute" submittals,
though no nomination will be reviewed if it is submitted to the commission less
than forty eight (48) hours prior to the meeting.
      3.   The historic preservation commission will review the documentation
for completeness, accuracy and compliance with subsection B of this section and
will make its decision accordingly.
   D.   Results Of Designation:
      1.   Owners of officially designated historic sites may obtain a historic
site certificate from the historic preservation commission. The certificate
contains the historic name of the property, the date of designation, and the
signatures of the chairpersons of the board of county commissioners and the
historic preservation commission.
      2.   If a historic site is to be demolished or extensively altered,
efforts will be made to document its physical appearance before that action
takes place.
         a.   The county will delay issuing a demolition permit for a maximum
of one week and will notify a member of the historic preservation commission,
which will take responsibility for the documentation.
         b.   Documentation will include, at minimum, exterior photographs
(both black and white and color slides) of all elevations of the historic
building. When possible, both exterior and interior measurements of the
building will be made in order to provide an accurate floor plan drawing of the
building.
         c.   The demolition permit will be issued after one week of the
initial application whether or not the commission has documented the building.
The permit may be issued earlier if the commission completes its documentation
before the one week deadline.
         d.   The documentation will be kept in the commission's historic sites
files, which are open to the public.
   E.   Removal Of Properties: Properties which, in the opinion of the historic
preservation commission, no longer meet the criteria for eligibility may be
removed from the historic sites list after review and consideration by the
commission. (Ord. 13.00, 10-4-1993)
5-6-4: HISTORIC LANDMARK REGISTER:
   A.   Landmarks Designated: Significant historic properties may be designated
to the historic landmark register for the purposes of recognizing their
significance and providing incentives and guidelines for their preservation.
   B.   Criteria: Any district, building, structure, object or site may be
designated to the historic landmark register if it meets all the criteria
outlined below:
      1.   Located Within County: It is located within the official boundaries
of the county.
      2.   Current Status: It is currently listed in the National Register of
Historic Places, or it has been officially determined eligible for listing in
the National Register of Historic Places under the provisions of 36 code of
federal regulations 60.6(s). Properties listed on or determined eligible for
the national register must, in addition to retaining their integrity, meet at
least one of the following national register criteria:
         a.   Associated with events that have made a significant contribution
to the broad patterns of our history; or
         b.   Associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or
         c.   Embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or
method of construction or that represent the work of a master, or that possess
high artistic values, or that represent a significant and distinguishable
entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or
         d.   Have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
prehistory or history (archeological sites, for example).
      3.   Owner Approval: The owner of the property approves of the action to
designate his/her property to the historic landmark register and has submitted
to the commission a written statement to that effect.
   C.   Designation Procedures:
      1.   Official designation proceedings must begin with the submittal of a
written request for designation by the property owner to the commission
chairperson. The letter must identify the property by its address and historic
name, give the date the property was listed in the national register or
officially determined eligible, and include a statement verifying that the
property owner is indeed the owner of legal record of the property proposed for
designation. This official request may be preceded by informal contacts with
the property owner by commission members, private citizens, local officials, or
others regarding designation of the property.
      2.   Upon receipt of the written request for designation, the commission
chairperson shall arrange for the nomination to be considered at the next
commission meeting, which shall be held at a time not to exceed thirty (30)
days from the date the request was received.
      3.   The decision by the commission shall be based on the eligibility of
the property in terms of meeting the criteria of subsection B of this section.
The commission shall forward its recommendation in writing to the county
commissioners within fourteen (14) days.
      4.   The county commissioners may, by approval and passage of an
appropriate resolution, designate properties to the historic landmark register.
Following designation, a notice of such shall be mailed to the owner of record
together with a copy of this chapter.
   D.   Notification And Recording Of Designation: When historic properties
have been officially designated to the county historic landmark register by the
county commissioners, the commission shall promptly notify the owners of those
properties. The commission shall record the historic landmark register status
designation with the county recorder's office.
   E.   Results Of Designation To Historic Landmark Register:
      1.   Special Zoning Considerations: Properties designated to the historic
landmark register may receive special consideration in the granting of zoning
variances or conditional use permits in order to encourage their preservation.
(Ord. 13.00, 10-4-1993)
      2.   Building Code Waivers: In the event of rehabilitation of the
property, local building officials will consider waiving certain code
requirements in accordance with the building code, which deals with historic
buildings, or the uniform code for building conservation, a special code for
existing buildings.
      3.   Assistance Regarding Grant And Tax Credit Applications: Owners of
historic landmarks may seek assistance from the historic preservation
commission in applying for grants or tax credits for rehabilitating their
properties.
      4.   Repairs, Alterations And Additions:
         a.   Review And Approval Required: Proposed repairs, alterations or
additions to historic landmarks are subject to the review of the historic
preservation commission and the subsequent review and approval of the county
commissioners. The purpose of this review is to ensure the preservation of
historic materials and features to the greatest degree possible.
         b.   Permit Applications And Decisions:
            (1)   Applications for permits pertaining to historic landmark
properties shall be forwarded by the building inspector to the historic
preservation commission prior to their issuance.
            (2)   At its next scheduled meeting, the commission shall review
the applications and proposed work for compliance with the secretary of the
interior's "Standards For Rehabilitation", hereafter referred to as the
"standards" (see section 9 of the standards).
            (3)   The commission's recommendation shall be forwarded within
three (3) days to the board of county commissioners for its consideration. The
recommendation must indicate which of the standards the board's decision was
based on and, where appropriate, a brief explanation. Copies of the
recommendation shall be sent to the building inspector and the property owner
at the same time.
            (4)   The county commissioners shall schedule the matter for their
next county commissioners' meeting and, upon review of the historic
preservation commission's recommendation and other comments given at the
meeting, make a decision regarding the appropriateness of the proposed action.
Approved projects will be issued a "certificate of historical appropriateness"
which authorizes the building permit to be issued.
   F.   Removal Of Properties: Properties which, in the opinion of the historic
preservation commission, no longer meet the criteria for eligibility may be
removed from the historic landmark register after review and consideration by
the commission. The property owner shall be advised by mail of the historic
preservation commission meeting during which the removal will be considered.
The owner will be notified of the decision of the commission and will have
thirty (30) days to appeal the decision of the commission to the board of
county commissioners. However, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent an owner from removing his property from the historic landmark register
as the owner, in his sole discretion, shall deem appropriate. Further, the
county shall not accept any liability whatsoever for an owner's decision to
remove property from the historic register.
   G.   Enforcement: The provisions of this section are subject to the
enforcement provisions established in the building code, uniform code for
building conservation, or in the uniform housing code. (Ord. 13.00, 10-4-1993;
amd. 2005 Code)
5-6-5: STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION:
The following standards for rehabilitation shall be used by the historic
preservation commission and county commissioners when determining the historic
appropriateness of any application pertaining to historic landmark properties:
   A.   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a new
use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
building and its site and environment.
   B.   The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved.
The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and spaces that
characterize a property shall be avoided.
   C.   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from other
buildings, shall not be undertaken.
   D.   Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired
historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
   E.   Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples
of craftsmanship that characterize a property shall be preserved.
   F.   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced.
Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive
feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color, texture, and
other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing
features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial
evidence.
   G.   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause
damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of
structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
   H.   Significant archeological resources affected by a project shall be
protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken.
   I.   New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall
not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new work
shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the massing,
size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of
the property and its environment.
   J.   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
(Ord. 13.00, 10-4-1993)
5-6-6: CONFLICTING, DUPLICATING PROVISIONS:
In the event any city or town within the boundaries of the county adopts
legislation which is in conflict with, or duplicates in any way, the terms and
provisions hereof, said ordinance or legislation of such city or town shall
govern, and the terms hereof shall not be applicable within said city or town.
(Ord. 13.00, 10-4-1993)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Purpose
6-1-2: Statute Authority
6-1-3: Definitions
6-1-4: Succession In Elected And Appointed Offices; Powers And Duties
6-1-5: Declaration Of Emergency
6-1-6: Emergency Management Procedures
6-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide direction for the declaration of
emergencies, emergency management procedures and for continuity in government
by providing a procedure for succession in offices where elected officials or
other key personnel are unavailable during the course of any major natural
disaster or other disruptive occurrence. This chapter is also designed to
provide a statement of the clear line of authority and succession assuming the
unavailability, temporarily or permanently, of elected and appointed officials
in order to ensure a lawful continuity of government and prompt response to an
emergency caused by such disaster or occurrence. (Ord. 2.10, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-
1-2003; amd. 2005 Code)
6-1-2: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
The process provided for herein is authorized pursuant to the authority
provided local governments in regard to response and recovery from natural
disasters and/or any disruptive occurrences pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
sections 63-5a-4, 63-5a-6 and 63-5a-11; 63-5b-101, 63-5b-102, 63-5b-501, 63-5b-
502, 63-5b-503 and 63-5b-601, and various sections under title 17, providing
for deputization, delegation of governmental authority, appointment and filling
of vacant elective offices. (Ord. 2.10, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003; amd. 2005
Code)
6-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ABSENT: Not physically present or not able to be communicated with via
telephone, radio or telecommunications for forty eight (48) hours.
ATTACK: A nuclear, conventional, biological, or chemical warfare action against
the United States of America or this state.
DISASTER: A situation causing, or threatening to cause, widespread damage,
social disruption, or injury or loss of life or property resulting from attack,
internal disturbance, natural phenomenon or technological hazard.
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN: The formal plan compiled by the sheriff providing
emergency operations procedures to be used during a disaster, which plan shall
be on file in the office of the sheriff.
INTERIM SUCCESSION: Is intended to mean the temporary replacement or filling of
offices within Millard County government to meet the demands of emergency
response as a result of a natural phenomenon or disaster, and the period shall
not extend beyond that required to formally provide for the filling of a
vacancy by current statutory and constitutional provisions or until the officer
or emergency interim successor earlier in the order of succession is available
and which shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
INTERNAL DISTURBANCE: Riot, prison break, disruptive terrorism or strike.
LOCAL EMERGENCY: A condition in any area of the county which requires that
emergency assistance be provided by the county or the affected political
subdivision to save lives and protect property within its jurisdiction in
response to a disaster, or to avoid or reduce the threat of a disaster.
NATURAL PHENOMENON: Any earthquake, tornado, storm, flood, landslide,
avalanche, forest or range fire, drought, epidemic, or other catastrophic
event.
TECHNOLOGICAL HAZARD: Any hazardous materials accident, mine accident, train
derailment, air crash, radiation incident, pollution, chemical weapons
incident, structural fire or explosion.
UNAVAILABLE: Absent from the place of government during a disaster or natural
phenomenon that seriously disrupts normal governmental operations; or unable
because of physical, mental or legal reasons, or otherwise unavailable to
exercise the powers and duties of an office during a disaster, whether or not
the absence or inability would give rise to a vacancy of the office under
existing constitutional or statutory provisions. (Ord. 2.10, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-
1-2003)
6-1-4: SUCCESSION IN ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICES; POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   It is the specific direction of the board of county commissioners that
all elective and executive or supervisory offices of county government provide
for interim succession if the office holder or official is "unavailable", as
defined in section
6-1-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Each elected official's office and each department within the county
government shall provide a list of at least one, and more if such office is
sufficiently staffed, interim successors for each position in the order of
succession to the county director of emergency management and the board of
county commissioners within ten (10) days after the effective date hereof and
by July 1 of each year thereafter.
   C.   Delegation of interim successor's authority and power in elected
offices other than the board of county commissioners shall be extended only to
duly deputized deputies of those offices. An interim successor should be
familiar with the duties of the office in an emergency or natural act or
disaster and shall be duly qualified and competent under state and/or local
law.
   D.   The board of county commissioners may continue to perform and govern as
provided by law with two (2) or more available county commissioners. Upon the
unavailability of two (2) county commissioners, the legislative duties of the
governing body shall be performed by one county commissioner. Upon the
unavailability of three (3) county commissioners, three (3) interim successor
county commissioners, one designated by each elected county commissioner, may
perform and govern as provided by law until one or more elected county
commissioner is available. Executive functions of the governing body can be
delegated in advance pursuant to this chapter through departments and other
elected offices.
   E.   All future designees, if not currently deputized, should be required to
take an oath of office at the time of their designation which would be
contingent upon the unavailability of the office holder, as defined in this
chapter, in order that their acts would be official acts of the governing body
or respective positions. The county clerk is directed to effectuate this
procedure.
   F.   Emergency interim successors shall exercise the powers and duties of
the office until the vacancy is filled in accordance with the constitution,
statutes, or policy and procedures of county or the county officer, deputy or
emergency interim successor earlier in the order of succession becomes
available to exercise the powers and duties of the office. (Ord. 2.10, 5-5-
2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
6-1-5: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   Emergency Proclamation:
      1.   A local emergency may be declared by proclamation of the board of
county commissioners in an emergency session. In the absence of two (2) county
commissioners, the remaining county commissioner may so declare an emergency to
be later ratified by the county commissioners or interim successor county
commissioners as provided in this chapter. Nothing in this section is intended
to preclude the declaration of an emergency and the exercise of emergency
powers under the approved emergency operations plan of the county as long as
those actions are consistent with the requirements of that plan.
      2.   The proclamation declaring the emergency shall be filed with the
county clerk and shall state the nature of the emergency, the areas threatened
and various conditions which caused the emergency, and the initial period of
the emergency.
   B.   Rules, Orders And Regulations:
      1.   All rules, orders and regulations promulgated subsequent to the
declaration of emergency shall have full force and effect of law during the
emergency period immediately upon being filed in the office of the county clerk
or upon compliance with the requirements of the emergency operations plan.
      2.   All rules, orders, regulations, ordinances and resolutions
promulgated subsequent to the declaration shall have the full force and effect
of law during the emergency period, including all actions of interim successors
lawfully holding office pursuant to this chapter and other ordinances of the
county.
   C.   Request For Assistance: The declaration of emergency provided herein
may authorize the request for assistance from the division of emergency
services of the state and the federal emergency management agency or other
appropriate agencies or groups.
   D.   Procurements: Upon the declaration of the emergency, the county auditor
or his interim successor or his designee is authorized to make emergency
procurements. Appropriate documentation and records shall be maintained to meet
the requirements of the office of emergency services and the federal emergency
management agency.
   E.   Extent Of Powers: The emergency authority authorized pursuant to the
declaration provided herein and state law shall be without limitation except as
declaration-established limits and shall be coexistent with emergency powers
and authorities provided by state law. (Ord. 2.10, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
6-1-6: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Emergency Operations Plan: The Millard emergency operations plan shall
be incorporated and made a part of this chapter by reference. Upon the
declaration of an emergency or the occurrence of a "natural phenomenon" or
"disaster", as defined in section
6-1-3 of this chapter, the emergency operations plan shall be put into
immediate effect. All responding officers of elected officials and departments
of the county government shall have available a copy of the emergency
operations plan and be fully informed of their respective responsibilities
under that plan.
   B.   Preservation Of Records: Immediately upon the declaration of an
emergency, all essential records in regard to the county shall be preserved,
and all records in regard to the emergency response, including orders,
proclamations, procurements and contracts shall be appropriately documented and
maintained pursuant to the plan. The county clerk shall maintain all records of
the governing body and record them immediately as they occur during the period
of emergency declaration.
   C.   Emergency Operations Center: At the time of an actual emergency and
pursuant to the requirements of the emergency operations plan, all emergency
personnel in the command structure shall report to the Emergency Operations
Center, Public Safety Building, 750 South Highway 99, Fillmore, Utah, unless
otherwise advised, or such other location as the emergency requires.
   D.   Emergency Operations Group: The emergency operations group shall
include the following:
      1.   Commissioners and their administrative assistants or designees.
      2.   County attorney or designee.
      3.   Sheriff or designee.
      4.   Auditor or designee.
      5.   Clerk or designee.
      6.   Fire district representative.
      7.   County road department representative.
   E.   Suspension Of Public Notice Requirements: During the period of an
emergency declaration as provided herein, public notice requirements of the
open and public meetings act shall be suspended for actions of the governing
body. Public information and media communications during an emergency
declaration period shall be provided for in the emergency operations plan.
(Ord. 2.10, 5-5-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-2-1: Nuisance Conditions Enumerated
6-2-2: Dogs
6-2-3: Dangerous, Vicious Animals
6-2-4: Control And Fencing Of Livestock
6-2-5: Stray Animals; Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
6-2-6: Cruelty To, Abuse Of Animals
6-2-7: Animals Bites; Report Requirements
6-2-8: Rabies Suspects
6-2-1: NUISANCE CONDITIONS ENUMERATED:
Any owner or person having charge, care, custody or control of an animal or
animals causing a "nuisance", as defined below, shall be in violation of this
chapter and subject to the penalties provided in this chapter. The following
shall be deemed nuisances. Any animal which:
   A.   Damage To Property: Causes damage to the property of anyone other than
its owner.
   B.   Vicious Animal: Is a "vicious animal", as defined in section
6-2-3 of this chapter, and is kept contrary to the provisions of said section
6-2-3.
   C.   Odors: Causes unreasonable fouling of the air by odors.
   D.   Unsanitary Conditions: Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or
surroundings, except in corrals or pens on lands properly zoned for such uses.
   E.   Animal Waste: Defecates on any public sidewalk, park or building, or on
any private property without the consent of the owner of such private property,
unless the person owning, having a proprietary interest in, harboring or having
care, charge, control, custody or possession of such animal shall remove any
such defecation to a proper trash receptacle.
   F.   Noise: Barks, whines, or howls, or makes other disturbing noises in an
excessive, continuous or untimely fashion.
   G.   Molesting Persons: Molests passersby or chases passing vehicles.
   H.   Attacking Other Animals: Attacks other domestic animals.
   I.   Packs: By virtue of the number maintained, are offensive or dangerous
to the public health, welfare or safety.
   J.   Other Acts: Otherwise acts so as to constitute a nuisance or public
nuisance under the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 76, chapter 10.
(1988 Code § 6.04.010)
6-2-2: DOGS:
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited: It is unlawful for the owner or person
having charge, care, custody or control of any dog to allow such dog at any
time to run at large. The owner or person charged with responsibility for a dog
found running at large shall be strictly liable for a violation by the dog,
regardless of whether or not he knows that the dog is running at large. (1988
Code § 6.01.010)
   B.   Female Dogs In Heat: Any owner or person having charge, care, custody
or control of any female dog in heat shall, in addition to restraining such dog
from running at large, cause such dog to be constantly confined in a building
or secure enclosure so as to prevent it from coming into contact with, or
attracting by scent, other dogs and creating a nuisance. The exception to this
subsection would be dogs in heat for the purposes of breeding. However, owners
of such dogs may not allow them to run at large. (1988 Code § 6.01.020)
   C.   Attacks By Dogs:
      1.   Dogs With Propensity To Attack Prohibited: It is unlawful for the
owner or person having charge, care, custody or control of any dog to allow
such dog to attack, chase or worry any person, any domestic animal having a
commercial value, or any species of protected wildlife, or to attack domestic
fowl. "Worry", as used in this subsection, means to harass by tearing, biting,
or shaking with the teeth.
      2.   Liability Of Owner: The owner in violation of subsection C1 of this
section shall be strictly liable for violation hereof. In addition to being
subject to prosecution under subsection C1 of this section, the owner of such
dog shall also be liable in damages to any person injured or to the owner of
any animal(s) injured or destroyed thereby.
      3.   Mitigating Factors: The following shall be considered in mitigating
the penalties or damages or in dismissing the charge:
         a.   The dog was properly confined on the premises.
         b.   The dog was deliberately or maliciously provoked.
      4.   Killing Authorized: Any person may kill a dog while it is committing
any of the acts specified in subsection C1 of this section or while such dog is
being pursued thereafter. (1988 Code § 6.01.030)
6-2-3: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for the owner of any fierce, dangerous or vicious animal to
permit such animal to go or be off the premises of the owner unless such animal
is under restraint or properly muzzled so as to prevent it from injuring any
person or property. Every animal so vicious and dangerous that it cannot be
controlled by reasonable restraints, and every dangerous and vicious animal not
effectively controlled by its owner or person having charge, care or control of
such animal, so that it shall not injure any person or property, is a hazard to
public safety, and the county sheriff, represented by the county attorney,
shall seek a court order for destruction of or muzzling of the animal. (1988
Code § 6.04.040)
6-2-4: CONTROL AND FENCING OF LIVESTOCK:
   A.   Control Of Livestock Required: It is unlawful for any person owning or
having the custody, possession or control of an animal of a class of livestock
to allow, either negligently or with specific intent, the animal to run at
large in a district where such is not permitted by law or to otherwise permit
the animal to be herded, pastured or to go upon the land of another without the
consent of the person owning or having control of the land. In districts where
livestock are not permitted to run at large, adequate fencing shall be erected
and maintained to prevent the escape of the animal, as specified in subsection
B of this section.
   B.   Fence Construction And Maintenance Requirements: All fencing of
property where a class of livestock is kept shall be of sufficient construction
to prevent the escape of or injury to the animals being confined within the
fencing. The fencing shall be maintained so that no part of such fence, absent
extraordinary circumstances, may be broken, damaged or in any way create the
possibility of injury to the confined animal or to allow the escape thereof.
   C.   Tying Animals To Graze Prohibited: It is unlawful to picket or tie any
animal in any of the streets or roads in the county for the purpose of grazing.
(1988 Code § 6.04.050)
6-2-5: STRAY ANIMALS; IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Liability For Property Damage: Any person responsible for any estrays
or animals not controlled and held within a fenced enclosure shall be liable
for civil damages to the county for the actual cost of capturing and
maintaining such animals. No such animals shall be returned to the owner until
the owner has paid the county the full amount of such costs. (1988 Code §
6.04.060)
   B.   Failure To Reclaim Animals; Destruction Or Sale Of Animal:
      1.   If any owner of an animal captured under subsection A of this
section fails to claim such animal within ten (10) days after notice, the
sheriff may dispose of the animal either by destroying or selling it. Any
animal may be sold to anyone desiring to purchase such animal. When selling any
animal, the sheriff may proceed under the directions enumerated in title 1,
chapter 8 of this code, or according to his discretion.
      2.   When, in the sheriff's judgment, it is determined that an animal
should be destroyed for humane reasons or to protect the public from imminent
danger to persons or property, such animal may be destroyed without regard to
any time limitations otherwise established in this chapter and without court
order. (1988 Code § 6.04.070)
6-2-6: CRUELTY TO, ABUSE OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Cruelty Prohibited Generally; Reasonable Force Allowed: It is unlawful
for any person to wilfully or maliciously inflict unnecessary or needless
cruelty, torture, or abuse or to cruelly beat, strike or abuse any animal, or
by an act, omission or neglect cause or inflict any unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain, suffering, injury or death to any animal. This rule applies
whether such animal belongs to such person or to another. Reasonable force may
be employed to drive away vicious or trespassing animals. (1988 Code §
6.08.010)
   B.   Proper Care And Maintenance: It is the duty of any person to provide
any animal in his charge or custody, as owner or otherwise, with adequate food,
drink, care and shelter. (1988 Code § 6.08.020)
   C.   Abandonment: It is unlawful for any person to abandon any animal within
the unincorporated territory of the county. (1988 Code § 6.08.030)
   D.   Physical Abuse: It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or
maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, torture, beat with a stick, chain, club or
other object, mutilate, burn or scald, overdrive or otherwise cruelly set upon
any animal. Each such incident shall constitute a separate violation. (1988
Code § 6.08.040)
   E.   Animals For Fighting:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to raise, keep or
use any animal, fowl or bird:
         a.   For the purpose of fighting or baiting; and
         b.   For any person to be a party to or be present as a spectator at
any such fighting or baiting of any animal or fowl; and
         c.   For any person, firm or corporation to knowingly rent any
building, shed, room, yard, ground or premises for any such purposes as above
mentioned, or to knowingly suffer or permit the use of his building, sheds,
rooms, yard, ground, or premises for the purposes aforesaid.
      2.   Law enforcement officers may enter any building or place where there
is an exhibition of the fighting or baiting of a live animal, or where
preparations are being made for such an exhibition, and the law enforcement
officers may arrest any person there present and take possession of all animals
engaged in fighting, or there found for the purposes of fighting, along with
all implements, equipment, materials, furnishings or applications used in such
exhibition. This provision shall not be interpreted to authorize a search or
arrest without a warrant when such is required by law. (1988 Code § 6.08.050)
   F.   Poisoning: It is unlawful for any person, by any means, to make
accessible to any animal, with intent to cause harm or death, any substance
which has in any manner been treated or prepared with any harmful or poisonous
substance. This subsection shall not be interpreted so as to prohibit the use
of poisonous substances for the control of vermin in furtherance of the public
health, when applied in such a manner as to reasonably prohibit access by other
animals, or for the control of predators in a manner permitted by federal and
state law and regulations. (1988 Code § 6.08.060)
6-2-7: ANIMAL BITES; REPORT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Reports Generally: Any person having knowledge of any individual or
animal having been bitten by an animal of a species subject to rabies shall
report the incident immediately to the county sheriff's department or the
county health department.
   B.   Owner Of Animal That Bites; Bitten Person: The owner of an animal that
bites a person and any person bitten by an animal shall report the bite to the
county sheriff or the health department within twenty four (24) hours of the
bite, regardless of whether or not the biting animal is of a species subject to
rabies.
   C.   Person Treating Bitten Person: A physician, or other medical personnel,
who renders professional treatment to a person bitten by an animal shall report
to the county health department, within twenty four (24) hours of his first
professional attendance, the fact that he has rendered professional treatment.
He shall report the name, sex and address of the person bitten, as well as the
type and location of the bite. If known, he shall give the name and address of
the owner of the animal that inflicted the bite, and any other facts that may
assist the division of animal control in ascertaining the immunization status
of the animal.
   D.   Failure To Report: Any person not conforming with the requirements of
this section shall be in violation of this chapter. (1988 Code § 6.04.020)
6-2-8: RABIES SUSPECTS:
Any person having knowledge of the whereabouts of an animal known to have been
exposed to or suspected of having rabies, or of an animal or person bitten by
such a suspect animal, shall immediately notify the county sheriff's office,
the county health department, or the state division of health. (1988 Code §
6.04.040)
CHAPTER 3
HUNTING AND SHOOTING
SECTION:
6-3-1: Hunting And Shooting Prohibitions
6-3-2: Night Hunting
6-3-1: HUNTING AND SHOOTING PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases used in this section shall
have the following meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the
context:
    FIREARM: A pistol, revolver, shotgun, sawed off shotgun, rifle or sawed off
rifle, or any device that could be used as a dangerous weapon, from which is
expelled a projectile by action of an explosive.
   RESIDENCE: Actual place of abode or habitation of any person on a permanent
and not temporary basis.
   B.   Prohibited In Certain Areas 1 : It shall be unlawful for any person to
hunt or pursue game or wildlife of any type, or for any person to discharge any
type or kind of firearm, including a bow and arrow, within the following areas
of the county:
      1.   Any cemetery; and
      2.   All of the hereafter described real property in the county which is
not within the city or corporate limits of Fillmore City, Utah:
All of Section 28, the South one-half of Section 21, the Northwest quarter of
the Southwest quarter and the Southwest quarter of the Northwest quarter of
Section 27, all being in Township 21 South, Range 4 West, Salt Lake Base and
Meridian.
   C.   Shooting Rifle During Big Game Season: During big game season, it shall
be unlawful for any person to discharge any rifle, or shotgun using slugs,
within one-half (1/2) mile of any residence in the county.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this
section is guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 7.27, 9-28-1992; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 8-1-5M of this code for prohibited discharge within
  Gunnison Bend Park.
6-3-2: NIGHT HUNTING:
   A.   Definition: "Nighttime" or "night", within the meaning of this section,
shall be that time from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour
before sunrise. In the event that the provisions of the various hunting
proclamations are in conflict with this definition of "nighttime", such
proclamation provisions shall control for the time they are in force. (1988
Code § 7.28.020)
   B.   Nighttime Hunting Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
discharge a firearm or take any form of avian or terrestrial wildlife during
the nighttime hours. (1988 Code § 7.28.030)
   C.   Spotlighting:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to throw or cast the rays of any
spotlight, headlight or any other artificial light on any highway, field,
woodland, or forest while having in his possession or under his control any
firearm or weapon by which wildlife or livestock could be killed, even though
no animal is killed, injured, shot at or otherwise pursued.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection do not apply in a case where the
headlights of a motor vehicle operated in a usual manner on a highway cast a
light on such highway and there is no attempt or intent to locate the wildlife.
(1988 Code § 7.28.010; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Exemptions From Provisions: Nothing in this section shall prevent any
landowner or his authorized agent from using an artificial light or discharging
a firearm at any time on lands under his control for the purpose of protecting
crops or livestock. Neither shall this section prevent any peace, conservation
or wildlife officer in the performance of his duties from the use of an
artificial light or discharging a firearm at any time. (1988 Code § 7.28.040)
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this
section is guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 7.28.050; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Curfew Regulations
6-4-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions:
      1.   Under Fourteen: It is unlawful for any minor person under fourteen
(14) years of age to be in or on any of the sidewalks, streets, roads or public
places in the county between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and four
o'clock (4:00) A.M. of any day. (1988 Code § 7.24.010)
      2.   Under Eighteen: It is unlawful for any minor person under eighteen
(18) years of age to be in or on any of the sidewalks, streets, roads or public
places in the county between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
four o'clock (4:00) A.M. of any day. (1988 Code § 7.24.020)
   B.   Responsibility Of Business Owners: No person owning or operating a
business shall permit any minor person under the age of fourteen (14) to remain
on the business premises between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and four o'clock (4:
00) A.M.; nor shall the owner permit any minor person under eighteen (18) years
of age to be or to remain on such premises between twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and four o'clock (4:00) A.M. This subsection shall not apply to any
minor who is in the immediate presence of the parent or other adult person
having legal care and custody of that minor, or any minor who is lawfully
employed on the premises. (1988 Code § 7.24.030)
   C.   Responsibility Of Parents And Guardians: It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian or other person having legal care and custody of any minor to allow or
permit any such minor to go or be in or upon any of the sidewalks, streets,
roads or public places in the county within the times provided in this section.
(1988 Code § 7.24.040)
   D.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply where the minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult
person having the legal care and custody of such minor, or where the presence
of such minor in or upon any sidewalk, alley or road in the county is required
because of the employment or other lawful business of the minor. (1988 Code §
7.24.050)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Fireworks
6-5-2: Explosives
6-5-3: Blasting
6-5-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   State Regulations Adopted: The county hereby adopts the provisions and
regulations contained in the Utah fireworks act, Utah Code Annotated sections
11-3-1 et seq., as amended. The county further adopts the rules and definitions
regarding the retail sale of fireworks and the list of acceptable class C
fireworks as prescribed by the Utah state fire prevention board. (1988 Code §
7.20.010)
   B.   Public Display:
      1.   Permit Requirements:
         a.   The board of county commissioner may, upon written application
and the posting of a suitable bond or the filing of a public liability
insurance policy in amounts to be determined by the commissioners, grant a
permit for the public display of pyrotechnics by religious, educational,
fraternal or civic organizations, fair associations, amusement parks, or other
organizations or groups of individuals. After such permit has been granted,
sales, possession, use and distribution of pyrotechnics for such display shall
be lawful for that purpose only. (1988 Code § 7.20.020)
         b.   All applications for permission to operate a public display of
pyrotechnics shall be in writing and shall set forth:
            (1)   The name of the organization or person sponsoring the
display, together with the name, age and qualifications of persons actually in
charge of firing the display.
            (2)   The date and time of day at which the display is to be held.
            (3)   The exact location planned for the display.
            (4)   The manner and place of storage of fireworks prior to the
display. (1988 Code § 7.20.030)
      2.   Location And Procedures:
         a.   The actual point at which the fireworks are to be fired shall be
at least two hundred feet (200') from the nearest permanent building, public
highway or railroad, and fifty feet (50') from the nearest telegraph, telephone
or electric power pole or line, tree, or other overhead obstruction.
         b.   Spectators shall be restrained behind lines at least two hundred
feet (200') from the point at which the pyrotechnics are discharged.
         c.   All pyrotechnics that fire a projectile shall be so set up that
the projectile will go into the air as nearly as possible in a vertical
direction. In no event shall such pyrotechnics be set off so as to cause the
projectile to go in the direction of, or over, the spectators. (1988 Code §
7.20.040)
6-5-2: EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   Permit Requirements: It is unlawful for any person to manufacture,
keep, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of any explosive or explosives in
the county without first making written application and receiving a permit from
the board of county commissioners, which permit shall be attested by the county
clerk. The board of county commissioners may, at any time, revoke any permit
issued under the provisions of this section upon good cause being shown. (1988
Code § 7.20.050)
   B.   Transporting And Handling Explosives:
      1.   The transport of explosives in or upon any public conveyance
carrying passengers for hire is prohibited.
      2.   Every vehicle shall, while carrying explosives, have painted on its
front, side and back, in easily legible letters at least four inches (4") high
and in contrasting colors, the word "EXPLOSIVES"; or in lieu thereof, shall
display in such manner as to be visible from all directions, a red flag at
least twenty four inches (24") square with the word "DANGER" printed, stamped
or sewn thereon in white letters no less than six inches (6") high.
      3.   Smoking and open flames are prohibited in, or in the immediate
vicinity of, any vehicle containing explosives.
      4.   No explosives shall be loaded or unloaded in a careless manner or
while those performing the work are smoking or intoxicated.
      5.   It is unlawful for any person to place or carry in the bed or body
or cause to be placed or carried in the bed or body of any vehicle containing
such explosives, any metal tool or other piece of metal, or matches.
      6.   It is unlawful for any person to place or carry or to cause to be
placed or carried in any vehicle containing explosives, any exploders,
detonators, blasting caps, or other similar explosive material. (1988 Code §
7.20.060)
6-5-3: BLASTING:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall blast or carry on any blasting
operations whatsoever within the limits of the county without first having
obtained a permit from the board of county commissioners for such purpose.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for such permit must be made in
writing and submitted to the sheriff's office at least twenty four (24) hours
prior to intended blasting operations. The application must set forth the time,
location, and reasons for blasting, the location of nearby buildings, as well
as the name and address of the person or firm responsible, the names and
experience of those doing the actual blasting, and the approximate amount of
explosives involved. The sheriff's department shall transmit such application
and its recommendations to the board of county commissioners.
   C.   Bond Required: Before being granted a permit, the applicant must file
such bond as is deemed adequate in each case by the board of county
commissioners, which bond shall run to the county and shall be for the benefit
and use of any person or persons injured or the owners of any property damaged
through the blasting operations, whether arising through the acts or negligence
of the contractor, his agents or employees, or otherwise. If the circumstances
warrant, the board of county commissioners, according to its discretion, need
not require the applicant to file a bond. (1988 Code § 7.20.070)
CHAPTER 6
REGULATION OF LARGE PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Purpose
6-6-2: License Required
6-6-3: Definitions
6-6-4: Exemptions
6-6-5: Conditions For Issuing License
6-6-6: License Application
6-6-7: Issuance
6-6-8: Revocation
6-6-9: Enforcement
6-6-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the assemblage of large numbers
of people, in excess of those normally needing the health, sanitary, fire,
police, transportation, and utility services regularly provided in Millard
County, in order that the health, safety and welfare of all persons in Millard
County, residents and visitors alike, may be protected. (Ord. 08-09-16, 9-16-
2008)
6-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct, advertise, act as an
entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage, or sell or give tickets to an actual
or reasonably anticipated assembly of three hundred (300) or more people unless
a license to hold the assembly has first been issued by Millard County.
Application for such a license must be made at least thirty (30) days in
advance of the assembly. A license to hold an assembly issued to one person
shall permit any person to engage in any lawful activity in connection with the
holding of the licensed assembly. A separate license shall be required for each
location in which three hundred (300) or more people assemble or can reasonably
be anticipated to assemble. The fee for each license shall be two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for each twenty four (24) hour period or portion thereof. A
license shall permit the assembly of only the maximum number of people stated
in the license. The licensee shall not sell tickets to nor permit to assemble
at the licensed location more than the maximum permissible number of people.
(Ord. 08-09-16, 9-16-2008)
6-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
ASSEMBLY: A company of persons gathered together at any location at any single
time for any purpose.
PERSON: Any individual natural human being, partnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society, group or any other entity. (Ord. 08-09-16, 9-16-
2008)
6-6-4: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any regularly established, permanent place of
worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum, or other similar
permanently established place of assembly for assemblies which do not exceed by
more than two hundred fifty (250) people the maximum seating capacity of the
structure where the assembly is held.
This chapter shall also not apply to government sponsored fairs held on
regularly established fairgrounds nor to assemblies required to be licensed by
other ordinances and regulations of Millard County. (Ord. 08-09-16, 9-16-2008)
6-6-5: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUING LICENSE:
   A.   Before a license may be issued under this chapter, the applicant shall
determine the maximum number of people which will be assembled or admitted. The
maximum number shall not exceed that which can reasonably assemble at the
location in consideration of the nature of the assembly. Where the assembly is
to continue overnight, the maximum number shall not be more than is allowed to
sleep within the boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning or
health regulations of the county or the state of Utah.
   B.   Before the issuance of a license, the applicant shall provide proof
that he/she will furnish at his/her own expense before the assembly commences
the following:
      1.   Separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all state
and local specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds,
sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least three (3) toilets for every two hundred (200)
females and at least three (3) toilets for every three hundred (300) males,
together with an efficient, sanitary means of disposing of waste matter in
compliance with all state and local laws and regulations;
      2.   A sanitary method of disposing solid waste, in compliance with state
and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid waste
production of the maximum number of people to be assembled;
      3.   At least one emergency ambulance available for use at all times;
      4.   If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness,
illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly at the rate of
at least five (5) foot-candles, but not to shine unreasonably beyond the
boundaries of the enclosed location of the assembly;
      5.   A parking area inside the assembly grounds sufficient to provide
parking space for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of
at least one parking space for every four (4) persons;
      6.   If the assembly is to continue overnight, camping facilities in
compliance with all federal, state and local requirements sufficient to provide
camping accommodations for the maximum number of people to be assembled;
      7.   Security guards, either regular employees, duly sworn off duty peace
officers of the state of Utah or private guards, licensed in the state of Utah,
sufficient to provide adequate security for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least two (2) security guards for every three
hundred (300) people;
      8.   Fire protection, including alarms, extinguishing devices and fire
lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all federal, state and local standards
for the location of the assembly and sufficient emergency personnel to
efficiently operate the required equipment;
      9.   A bond, filed with the clerk of Millard County, either in cash or
underwritten by a surety company licensed to do business in Utah, at the rate
of three dollars ($3.00) per person for the maximum number of people permitted
to assemble, which shall indemnify and hold harmless Millard County or any of
its agents, officers, servants and employees from any liability or causes of
action which may arise by reason of granting this license, and from any cost
incurred in cleaning up any waste material produced or left by the assembly or
for damages caused thereby; and
      10.   A signed statement from the applicant and property owner that the
Millard County sheriff and/or his/her deputies are authorized to enter the
premises at all times to determine compliance with the terms of the license
conditions. (Ord. 08-09-16, 9-16-2008)
6-6-6: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   Application for a license to hold an assembly regulated by this chapter
shall be made at least thirty (30) days in advance of such assembly in writing
upon a form supplied by the Millard County recreation department, which shall
contain the following information:
      1.   A signed statement made upon oath or affirmation that the statements
contained therein are true and correct to the best knowledge of the applicant;
      2.   The name, age, residence and mailing address of the applicant,
company or corporation sponsoring the assembly;
      3.   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing addresses
of the record owner(s) of all such property;
      4.   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held or a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owner(s) of all
such property that the applicant has permission to use such property for the
assembly;
      5.   The name or purpose of the assembly;
      6.   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly is
to last;
      7.   The maximum number of persons the applicant shall permit to assemble
at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonably gather at
the location, in consideration of the nature of the assembly, or the maximum
number of persons allowed to sleep within the boundaries of the location of the
assembly by the zoning ordinances of Millard County if the assembly is to
continue overnight;
      8.   The maximum number of tickets to be sold;
      9.   Plans to limit the maximum number of people permitted to assemble;
      10.   Plans for fencing the assembly location and the gates contained in
such fence;
      11.   Plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities, including the
source, number, location, type and the means of disposing of waste deposited;
      12.   Plans for holding, collecting and disposing solid waste;
      13.   Plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly,
including the source and amount of power and the location of lamps;
      14.   Plans for emergency ambulance service;
      15.   Plans for parking vehicles, including size and location of lots,
points of highway access and interior roads, and routes between highway access
and parking lots;
      16.   Plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location;
      17.   Plans for security, including the number of guards, their
deployment, and their names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability;
      18.   Plans for fire protection, including the number, type and location
of all protective devices, alarms and extinguishers, and the number of
emergency fire personnel available to operate the equipment; and
      19.   Plans for food concessions and concessionaires who will be allowed
to operate on the grounds, including the names and addresses of all
concessionaires and their license or permit number.
   B.   The application shall be accompanied by the bond required and the
license fee. (Ord. 08-09-16, 9-16-2008)
6-6-7: ISSUANCE:
The application for a license shall be processed within fourteen (14) days of
receipt and shall be reviewed and approved by the county commission if all
conditions are complied with. The county commission may impose additional
conditions to protect health and safety. (Ord. 08-09-16, 9-16-2008)
6-6-8: REVOCATION:
A large assembly license issued under this chapter may be revoked by the
Millard County commission at any time, if any of the conditions necessary for
the issuing of or contained in the license are not complied with, or if any
condition previously met ceases to be complied with. (Ord. 08-09-16, 9-16-2008)
6-6-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by injunction in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   The holding of an assembly in violation of any provision or condition
contained in this chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated
as such.
   C.   It shall be a class "B" misdemeanor for any person to violate the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 08-09-16, 9-16-2008)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC ROADS AND HIGHWAYS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
7-1-1: Words And Terms Defined
7-1-2: County Jurisdiction And Control
7-1-3: Roads Within National Forests And BLM Property
7-1-4: Determination Of Width Of Rights Of Way
7-1-5: Preparation And Storage Of Plats And Descriptions
7-1-6: Limited Access Facilities
7-1-7: Restriction Of Highway Use
7-1-8: Unlawful Activities; Liability For Damages
7-1-1: WORDS AND TERMS DEFINED:
The following words and phrases used in this title shall have the following
meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ACCESS: The right of entry by means of an approved location and physical road
entryway.
ANNUAL BLANKET BOND AND PERMIT: An encroachment permit and bond issued for a
period of one calendar year to applicant, who, of necessity, may make numerous
encroachments. This permit is designed to alleviate the necessity of securing a
performance and completion bond for each encroachment.
APPLICANT: Every person, partnership, corporation, firm association or legal
entity making application for a permit for access or encroachment.
CLASS B ROADS: The same as "county roads", defined in this section.
CONSTRUCTION: The construction, reconstruction, replacement and improvement of
the public highways, including the acquisition of rights of way and material
sites.
COUNTY ROADS: Means and includes all public roads and streets within the
county, not designated as state highways, that are situated outside of
incorporated cities and towns which are designated as such on the general
highway map of Millard County, Utah. Said map as prepared by the Utah
department of transportation, is filed in the Millard County clerk's office,
and is amended from time to time. "County roads" also means the roads and
streets situated within incorporated cities and town within the county that
have been designated as county roads.
ENCROACHMENT: The disturbance of any roadway, whether by excavation, boring,
obstruction, vibroseising, flooding, sprinkling, dumping on, or extraordinary
short term use.
ENGINEER: The Millard County engineer or a duly appointed representative of the
Millard County engineer.
EXISTING MILLARD COUNTY ROADWAY: Any roadway listed on the Millard County road
department official road map.
HIGHWAY AUTHORITIES: The state road commission or the legislative and governing
body of a county, city or town.
HIGHWAY DIVISION: The highway division of the county public works department.
MAINTENANCE: The performance of all things necessary to keep a public highway
in serviceable condition.
OFFICIAL MAP: The official map or official maps of the county as adopted by the
commissioners, in accordance with law, showing the highways, freeways, parks,
parkways and sites for public buildings or works, including subsurface
facilities, in acquisition, financing or construction of which the county has
participated or may be called upon to participate.
PUBLIC HIGHWAY OR HIGHWAY: Any road, street, lane, court, place, viaduct,
tunnel, culvert, bridge, alley, or other public way situated within the county
laid out or erected as such by the public, or dedicated, abandoned or open to
the public, or made such in any action for the partition of real property, or
such other public property so designated by any ordinance or statute, and
includes the entire area within the right of way.
RIGHT OF WAY: Land, property or an interest therein, usually in a strip,
acquired for or devoted to use as a public highway.
SECTION: A section of this title unless some other section is specifically
mentioned.
SUPERVISOR: The Millard County road department supervisor or any representative
duly appointed by him. (1988 Code §§ 9.01.010 – 9.01.170)
7-1-2: COUNTY JURISDICTION AND CONTROL:
   A.   All highways, roads, paths and ways within the county not designated as
federal, state, city or special highways, roads, paths or ways shall be under
the direction and authority of the board of county commissioners. Such roads
shall be constructed and maintained by or under the authority of the county
commissioners from funds made available for that purpose, and the county
commissioners shall have the authority to expend or by contract cause to be
expended funds allocated to the county from the state road fund under rules
mutually adopted by the county commissioners and the state road commission. The
amount used annually from the state road fund for this purpose, together with
amounts from other sources as may be made available, shall constitute the funds
to be spent in constructing and maintaining class B roads within the county.
   B.   When, in the opinion of the county commissioners, the funds available
for road purposes from sources other than the levy made against tangible
property are adequate to properly construct and maintain the class B roads, the
county may cease making a levy for county road purposes or, at its option, may
use any portion of the class B road funds provided by Utah Code Annotated title
72, for the construction and maintenance of class A state roads by cooperative
agreement with the state road commission. (1988 Code § 9.04.010)
7-1-3: ROADS WITHIN NATIONAL FORESTS AND BLM PROPERTY:
The county is authorized and empowered to enter into agreements with the
appropriate federal agency for the use of federal funds to construct, improve
or maintain roads, other than state highways, within or partly within national
forests or BLM properties; provided, that the share of the county in the cost
of such cooperative road project shall be paid from county road funds; provided
further, that donations may be accepted in lieu of appropriations from county
road funds. (1988 Code § 9.04.020)
7-1-4: DETERMINATION OF WIDTH OF RIGHTS OF WAY:
The county road department may, subject to approval by the commissioners,
determine the permissible width of rights of way for public highways in the
county. (1988 Code § 9.04.030)
7-1-5: PREPARATION AND STORAGE OF PLATS AND DESCRIPTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the board of county commissioners to provide for the
preparation and storage of current plats and descriptions of all county roads
and of such other highways as the board may from time to time locate upon
public lands within the county. The plats and descriptions shall be kept on
file in the office of the county recorder. (1988 Code § 9.04.040)
7-1-6: LIMITED ACCESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Property Acquisition: The highway authorities of the county may acquire
private or public property or property rights for limited access facilities and
service roads, including rights of access, air, view and light, by gift,
devise, purchase or condemnation, in the same manner as such authorities are
now or hereafter may be authorized by law to acquire such property or property
rights in connection with highways, roads and streets within their respective
jurisdictions. All property rights so acquired may be in fee simple or in any
lesser estate or interest. In connection with the acquisition of property or
property rights for any limited access facility or portion thereof, or service
road in connection therewith, the county may, in its discretion, acquire an
entire lot, block or tract of land if, by so doing, the interests of the public
will be best served, even though the entire lot, block or tract is not
immediately needed for the right of way. (1988 Code § 9.04.050)
   B.   Control And Maintenance: The highway authorities of the county are
authorized to plan, designate, establish, regulate, vacate, alter, improve,
maintain and provide limited access facilities for public use whenever such
authorities are of the opinion that traffic conditions, present or future, will
justify such special facilities. The highway authorities of the county may also
exercise these powers relative to highways, roads or streets within their
respective jurisdictions. Such authorities may regulate, restrict or prohibit
the use of such limited access facilities by pedestrians, animals or the
various classes of vehicles or traffic. (1988 Code § 9.04.060; amd. 2005 Code)
7-1-7: RESTRICTION OF HIGHWAY USE:
Whenever it is deemed necessary because of construction or maintenance work or
because of emergency, the county commissioners may, subject to the
recommendation of the commissioner in charge of the county road department,
restrict the use of, or close, any highway or portion thereof. Whenever such
highway or portion thereof is restricted or closed to travel, the road
department shall erect or cause to be erected suitable barriers and notices to
be posted at the point where the detour road takes off from the closed or
restricted highway, and the detour road shall be clearly indicated by signs and
adequately maintained. (1988 Code § 9.04.070)
7-1-8: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES; LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
   A.   Disregard Of Warning Or Barricade: No person shall wilfully fail to
observe any barricade, warning light, sign or flagman warning the public that a
highway or portion thereof is restricted or closed to traffic. (1988 Code §
9.36.010)
   B.   Livestock On Highways: It is unlawful for any person to drive livestock
upon the public highways when a livestock highway is available and can be used
without undue inconvenience. (1988 Code § 9.36.020)
   C.   Violation Of Class B Road Use Regulations: No person shall wilfully
violate any of the rules and regulations of the county commissioners as to the
use of class B roads or traffic thereon, nor shall anyone unlawfully remove,
deface or interfere with any road sign, notice, warning or barrier. (1988 Code
§ 9.36.030)
   D.   Liability For Damages:
      1.   Any person who wilfully or negligently injures or damages any county
highway, highway equipment or road sign shall be liable for such damage. The
amount of such damage may be recovered in a civil action brought by the county
attorney in the name of the county. (1988 Code § 9.36.040)
      2.   Any person driving any vehicle, object or contrivance upon any
county highway or highway structure shall be liable for all damage that the
highway or structure may sustain as a result of the illegal operation, driving
or moving of the vehicle, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the
maximum weight specified by law. Whenever the driver is not the owner of such
vehicle, object or contrivance, but is operating the same with the express or
implied permission of the owner, then the owner and driver shall be jointly and
severally liable for the damage. Such damage may be recovered in a civil action
brought by the county attorney at the request of the county road department.
(1988 Code § 9.36.050)
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Where the performance of an act is prohibited or
declared unlawful by the provisions of this section, the doing of such an act
is declared to be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 9.36.060; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ACCESS TO PUBLIC ROADS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required
7-2-2: Access Permit Concurrent With Building Permit
7-2-3: Application For Permit
7-2-4: Review Fee
7-2-5: Approval Or Denial Of Permit
7-2-6: Access Standards
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person or vehicle shall gain access de novo, or increase the extent and
degree of access, to a designated county high speed collector road except by a
driveway or other means of access for which an access permit has first been
issued by the county engineer in accord with the terms of this chapter. (1988
Code § 9.08.010)
7-2-2: ACCESS PERMIT CONCURRENT WITH BUILDING PERMIT:
The application for a building permit may also be deemed a concurrent request
for an access permit for an increase in the extent and degree of access, if the
access to such building is on an existing driveway entering a designated high
speed collector road, or a concurrent application for an access permit for a
driveway, if the access to such building is to be on a new driveway that is
proposed to enter said road. When a building permit is applied for, the county
building inspector shall accept concurrent applications for access permits on
forms provided by the county planning commission and transmit the completed
application forms to the county engineer and the county supervisor for review.
No building permit shall be issued until the access permit is approved and
issued by the county building inspector, upon recommendation by the county
engineer and supervisor. (1988 Code § 9.08.020)
7-2-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
No access permit shall be issued unless a written application for the same is
first submitted to the county building inspector directly. The application
shall state the name and mailing address of the applicant, the street address
of the place of proposed access, structural plans for the off site improvements
proposed, and plot plans showing driveway, building setbacks and road
dedication lines. (1988 Code § 9.08.030)
7-2-4: REVIEW FEE:
A review fee, in the current amount as set by resolution of the board of county
commissioners, shall accompany each application for an access permit. (1988
Code § 9.08.040)
7-2-5: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The county building inspector shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny
each application for an access permit according to the terms and standards of
this chapter. (1988 Code § 9.08.050)
7-2-6: ACCESS STANDARDS:
The county building inspector shall not issue an access permit except in
compliance with the following standards:
   A.   Right Of Way: The portion of the road right of way lying between the
road centerline and road boundary line adjacent to the applicant's property
shall be dedicated to the county along its entire interface with the
applicant's property, and the width of said dedication shall be the standard
right of way width for the local, collector, or arterial class of road adopted
by the county.
   B.   Driveways: No more than two (2) driveways, each measuring thirty feet
(30') or less in width, shall be permitted to give access for any residential
structure. No more than two (2) driveways, each measuring fifty feet (50') or
less in width, shall be permitted for any other purpose of access. The county
engineer may permit acceleration and deceleration lanes to join the county road
when necessary to provide safe access.
   C.   Fences And Landscaping: Fences or sight obstructing landscaping shall
not be located within the road right of way.
   D.   Curb Cuts: No curb shall be wider than thirty feet (30') when serving a
residential structure, nor fifty feet (50') when serving any other purpose for
access. The county engineer may permit wider cuts when safety reasons require
them for acceleration or deceleration lanes.
   E.   Drainage: Drainage facilities shall be provided in the form of
culverts, bridges, curbs, etc., at each driveway and designed according to the
standards for public streets adopted by the county.
   F.   Ditches: Driveways shall access county roads across ditches in pipes or
culverts or standard design. No new open ditch shall be allowed within
dedicated rights of way. Ditch companies must give their approval for all pipes
placed in their ditches.
   G.   Location Of Access Points: The driveways or other points giving access
to a county road shall be no closer than six hundred feet (600') to one
another.
   H.   Angle: The driveway gaining access to a county road must meet the road
at an angle of from eighty (80) to ninety degrees (90°).
   I.   Grade: The driveway gaining access to a county road shall have a grade
of not more than five percent (5%) for the ten feet (10') closest to the road
right of way line.
   J.   Engineering Standards: The county engineer shall maintain design
standards for culverts, driveways, curbs, curb cuts, drainage facilities, etc.,
according to generally accepted engineering practices. (1988 Code § 9.08.060)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVEWAYS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permit Required
7-3-2: Bond
7-3-3: Construction Specifications And Grades
7-3-4: Deviation From Permitted Construction Prohibited
7-3-5: Inspection And Approval
7-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to construct, build, establish or maintain any
sidewalk, curb and gutter, or driveway over, across or upon any public street,
road, thoroughfare, or parkway, or to cut or change the construction of any
public sidewalk, curb or gutter for any purpose without having first obtained
from the county road department a permit for such construction, cut or change.
(1988 Code § 9.20.010)
7-3-2: BOND:
Before the issuance of any such permit, the contractor or person proposing the
construction shall file with the county clerk, on a form furnished by the
county, a penal bond in the sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
with good and sufficient surety thereon, conditioned that the makers shall save
harmless, defend and indemnify the county against or on account of accidents,
damages or claims arising out of or during the construction by the contractor.
All such bonds shall be continuing until terminated by notice in writing given
thirty (30) days in advance. (1988 Code § 9.20.020; amd. 2005 Code)
7-3-3: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS AND GRADES:
All construction authorized by the permit issued under section
7-3-1 of this chapter shall be in accordance with the specifications and grades
furnished by the county road department. The acceptance of such permit shall be
deemed an agreement by the permittee to perform such construction in accordance
with such specifications and grades. (1988 Code § 9.20.030)
7-3-4: DEVIATION FROM PERMITTED CONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to construct any sidewalk, curb and gutter, or
driveway over, across or upon any public street, road, thoroughfare or parkway,
or to cut or change the construction thereof except in accordance with the
permit issued by the county road department. (1988 Code § 9.20.040)
7-3-5: INSPECTION AND APPROVAL:
All sidewalks, curb and gutters, and driveways constructed in accordance with
the permits authorized by this chapter shall be subject to the supervision,
inspection and approval of the road department supervisor. (1988 Code §
9.20.050)
CHAPTER 4
BRIDGES, DITCHES AND WATERWAYS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Compliance With Provisions
7-4-2: Bridges
7-4-3: Ditches And Waterways
7-4-4: Headgates
7-4-5: Water Mains
7-4-6: Maintenance And Repair Of Bridges And Flumes
7-4-7: Violations Deemed Obstructions
7-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to construct, place, set, keep or maintain any
bridge, sewer, well, spill, or like obstruction upon, in, under or along any
public highway, road, street, avenue, lane, alley, trail or sidewalk in the
county, except as designated in this chapter. (1988 Code § 9.24.010)
7-4-2: BRIDGES:
   A.   Width:
      1.   Bridges over any ditch, waterway or opening across any sidewalk
shall not be less than the full width of such sidewalk.
      2.   Bridges over any ditch, waterway or opening across any roadway
section of any highway, trail or sidewalk shall not be narrower than the full
width of the roadway section.
   B.   Placement And Grade:
      1.   In all cases, bridges shall be set square with the road or sidewalk,
and their coverings shall be made to conform to the  grade of the road or
sidewalk as fixed by the county commissioners.
      2.   Bridges connecting the roadway with the sidewalk shall be made to
conform with the established grade of the roadway and sidewalk.
   C.   Construction Requirements: All bridges shall be of substantial material
and construction, and the plans and specifications shall be approved by the
county road department and shall be satisfactory to the county commissioners. 
(1988 Code § 9.24.020)
7-4-3: DITCHES AND WATERWAYS:
   A.   Permit Required; Conformance To Grade: No ditch, canal or waterway
shall be made or constructed across any sidewalk or highway except upon
receiving permission from the county commissioners and except after conforming
with the established grade thereof. When a change in the grade of any sidewalk
or highway becomes necessary for the convenience of any ditch, canal or
waterway, the changed grade shall be done by or at the expense of the person
constructing the ditch, canal or waterway, and shall be constructed only after
receiving permission to proceed from the board of county commissioners or its
delegated agent and shall be completed to the satisfaction of the board or its
agent.
   B.   Bridges And Flumes Required: All ditches, canals or waterways
constructed across or over any sidewalk or highway shall be securely bridged or
flumed; the bridges or flumes shall conform to the regulations provided in this
chapter.
   C.   Location: All ditches, canals or waterways running along any highway
shall be confined to a space on either side of such highway outside of the
right of way line unless otherwise approved by the county commissioners. It is
unlawful to construct or place any ditch, canal or waterway along any sidewalk,
or along any highway in the county, or within a public right of way without the
permission of the county commissioners. (1988 Code § 9.24.030)
7-4-4: HEADGATES:
Headgates for the control of irrigation or other water shall be placed either
in the ditch space or outside of the right of way line, as may be necessary.
(1988 Code § 9.24.040)
7-4-5: WATER MAINS:
Water mains for carrying water along or across any highway may be laid by
permission or upon order of the county commissioners, at a sufficient depth to
keep the roadway secure, and when laid along any highway, shall be located in
the roadway centering on a line five feet (5') nearer the center of the highway
than the curb line. No excavation for laying water mains or pipes shall be made
in any public highway without first obtaining the consent of the county
commissioners. (1988 Code § 9.24.050)
7-4-6: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF BRIDGES AND FLUMES:
It is unlawful for any person conveying water through or along any ditch, canal
or waterway along or across any highway to permit any flume, bridge, etc.,
under the control of or owned by the person, to become out of repair, and to
remain so after attention has been called thereto, longer than is necessary to
institute the work of repairs thereon, which work shall be diligently
prosecuted to completion. (1988 Code § 9.24.060)
7-4-7: VIOLATIONS DEEMED OBSTRUCTIONS:
It is the supervisor's duty to treat as obstructions any bridges, flumes, pipes
or ditches placed or constructed in violation of the terms of this chapter.
(1988 Code § 9.24.070)
CHAPTER 5
ENCROACHMENTS AND OBSTRUCTIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Permit Procedure
7-5-2: Fees
7-5-3: Bond Requirements
7-5-4: Liability Insurance
7-5-5: Annual Blanket Bond And Permits
7-5-6: Payment Of Fees, Bonds And Insurance
7-5-7: Administration, Enforcement And Inspections
7-5-8: Emergency Excavations
7-5-9: Prohibited And Restricted Encroachments
7-5-10: Removal Of Unlawful Installations
7-5-11: Confining And Securing Vehicle Loads
7-5-12: Responsibility For Contractors And Agents
7-5-1: PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Permit Required: Those persons making application for excavation,
boring, obstruction, vibroseising, or similar uses may obtain a permit from the
supervisor for these activities. Such activities are unlawful without an
encroachment permit. Violators shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 9.12.090; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Application For Permit; Processing Fee: Any party desiring to encroach
upon an existing county roadway must first make application for a permit by
fully completing an application form or a utility line agreement form, both of
which shall be provided by the county road department. A nonrefundable
processing fee in such amount as established by the county commission shall be
paid at the time application is made. The supervisor shall review the completed
forms and shall notify the applicant within a reasonable time of any
deficiencies.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit; Compliance Required: Upon acceptance by the
supervisor of the application or utility line agreement, the supervisor shall
issue a permit to the applicant for roadway encroachment. The applicant shall
fully comply with the terms of said permit, including any special provisions
required by the supervisor as conditions of issuance. (1988 Code § 9.12.010;
amd. 2005 Code)
7-5-2: FEES:
Upon acceptance of the application for encroachment, but before the issuance of
a permit, the supervisor will assess and collect fees in such amounts as
established by the county commission. (1988 Code § 9.12.020; amd. 2005 Code)
7-5-3: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The applicant, upon the supervisor's acceptance of the application for
encroachment, but before the issuance of a permit, shall secure and deliver to
the supervisor a performance and completion bond to ensure the restoration of
the site in at least the following amounts:
      1.   Hard surface road: Ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
      2.   Gravel surface road: Six thousand dollars ($6,000.00).
      3.   Dirt surface road: Six thousand dollars ($6,000.00).
   B.   The supervisor is authorized and directed to review each application as
to location, duration, and extent of encroachment, together with all other
pertinent factors. Upon such review, the supervisor shall determine the amount
of the bond reasonably necessary which, in no event, will be less than the
above indicated minimums. The supervisor shall notify the applicant of the
amount of the bond required, together with notification of acceptance of the
application of encroachment.
   C.   Bonds given pursuant to this section shall remain in force and effect
for a period of either one or three (3) years, as hereinafter indicated, from
the date the supervisor accepts the applicant's work, pursuant to section
7-5-7 of this chapter. Bonds are required for a three (3) year period when the
roadway or right of way is undermined or when any object, including, but not
limited to, utility lines or culverts, is placed beneath the surface of the
roadway or right of way. Bonds in all other cases shall be for a one year
period. (1988 Code § 9.12.040; amd. 2005 Code)
7-5-4: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
The applicant, upon acceptance of the application for encroachment by the
supervisor, but before the issuance thereof, shall secure and deliver to the
supervisor an insurance policy, naming the county as coinsured, providing
liability coverage in at least the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00). Said policy is to remain in force and effect until the
applicant is released pursuant to the provisions in section 9-5-7 of this
chapter. (1988 Code § 9.12.050; amd. 2005 Code)
7-5-5: ANNUAL BLANKET BOND AND PERMITS:
   A.   Applicants for annual blanket bond and permits shall notify the
supervisor of all encroachments before they are made as required herein, except
in emergency conditions. The applicants shall pay the fees specified before the
issuance of an annual blanket bond and permit.
   B.   The supervisor shall determine the performance and completion bond
required and the same shall be delivered to the supervisor before an annual
blanket bond and permit is issued. Holders of the annual blanket bond and
permits may, as directed by the supervisor, be required to provide a liability
policy for the calendar year corresponding with the permit year. (1988 Code §
9.12.030)
7-5-6: PAYMENT OF FEES, BONDS AND INSURANCE:
All fees required to be paid hereunder shall only be made and received at the
office of the county road department near Delta, Utah. The applicant must
deliver and deposit all bonds, insurance policies or other documents required
by this chapter to the county road department office. (1988 Code § 9.12.080)
7-5-7: ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The supervisor is hereby appointed to represent the county in all
matters pertaining to the review, granting, and enforcement of encroachment
permits. The supervisor may, as circumstances require, appoint representatives
to assist him in said duties.
   B.   The supervisor is authorized and directed to inspect operations at the
encroachment site. Any holder of a permit shall comply with any on site
directions of the supervisor.
   C.   Upon completion of the encroachment, the applicant shall notify the
supervisor. The supervisor shall then inspect the site and accept or reject the
work performed by the applicant. If the supervisor rejects the work, he shall
indicate the deficiencies which shall be corrected by the applicant. Upon
acceptance by the supervisor, the liability insurance provided pursuance to
section
7-5-4 of this chapter may be canceled. (1988 Code § 9.12.060)
7-5-8: EMERGENCY EXCAVATIONS:
The board of county commissioners recognizes that from time to time emergency
conditions may arise requiring encroachment upon county roadways. Should such
conditions exist, an applicant may proceed with the encroachment and then make
application for encroachment during the next working day. The applicant will
incur no penalty. If application for encroachment is not made during the next
working day, all fees will be twice the amount indicated. (1988 Code §
9.12.070)
7-5-9: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Water On Roadways: It is unlawful for any person to allow water to be
either sprinkled or flooded on the right of way of any county road; except,
that water may be channeled in the right of way in canals or ditches operated
by lawful irrigation companies and drainage districts who have been granted
approval by the county commissioners for the construction of said canals and
ditches.
   B.   Deposit Of Garbage And Debris: It is unlawful for any person to dump
debris, garbage, soil, rocks or any material in any county right of way. (1988
Code § 9.12.090)
   C.   Poles, Posts And Other Obstructions:
      1.   Prohibited Generally: It is unlawful for any person to set, place,
keep or maintain any pole, post, fence or like obstruction upon or along any
public highway, tree, road, street, avenue, lane, alley, trail or sidewalk in
the county, except as provided in this chapter. (1988 Code § 9.16.010; amd.
2005 Code)
      2.   Utilities; Permission Required: No telephone, telegraph, electric
light or other pole used for support of wire carrying electric current shall be
set on any public highway in the county without permission or a grant of right
of way therefor being first obtained from the county commissioners. (1988 Code
§ 9.16.020)
      3.   Mailboxes: Posts for carrying or holding mailboxes shall be set a
sufficient distance back of the curb line so as not to obstruct the street,
highway or sidewalk traffic. (1988 Code § 9.16.030)
      4.   Violation Deemed Obstruction: It is the duty of all road department
supervisors to treat as obstructions to public highways all poles, posts,
fences or other obstructions set or placed in violation of the terms of this
chapter. (1988 Code § 9.16.040)
7-5-10: REMOVAL OF UNLAWFUL INSTALLATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to place, construct or maintain any approach,
road, driveway, pole, pipeline, conduit, sewer, ditch, culvert, billboard,
advertising sign or any other structure or object of that kind or character
within the right of way of any county road without complying with the
regulations of the highway division, which division may:
   A.   Remove such installation from the right of way or require such person
to remove the same; or
   B.   Give written notice to such person to remove the installation from the
right of way. The notice may be served either by personal service or by mailing
the notice to the person by registered mail and posting a copy thereof on the
installation for a period of ten (10) days. If the installation is not removed
within ten (10) days after the notice is complete, the county road department
may remove the same and recover the costs and expenses. Further, the department
may recover the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each day the same
remained within the right of way after notice was complete, in an action for
the purpose; or
   C.   If such person disputes or denies the existence of such installation,
or refuses to remove or permit its removal, the highway division may bring an
action to abate the same as a nuisance. If judgment is recovered, there shall
also be recovered, in addition to having the same abated, the costs of action
and the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for every day such nuisance
remained within the right of way after notice was given for its removal in the
manner provided in subsection B of this section. (1988 Code § 9.12.100; amd.
2005 Code)
7-5-11: CONFINING AND SECURING VEHICLE LOADS 1 :
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any county highway unless so
constructed or loaded as to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting,
leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom. Sand or other abrasives may be dropped
for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substances may be
sprinkled on a roadway for cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on a public highway any vehicle with a load
unless the load and any covering thereon are suitably fastened, secured and
confined according to the nature of the load so as to prevent the covering or
load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to other users of
the highway. (1988 Code § 9.12.110)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-4-9 of this code.
7-5-12: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONTRACTORS AND AGENTS:
Any entity, whether public or private, who engages agents, general contractors,
or subcontractors for a project that requires roadway encroachment shall
require said agents, general contractors, or subcontractors to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. Any entity violating this section is guilty of a
class B misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 9.12.090; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CANYON ROADS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Purpose
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Roads Classified
7-6-4: Classification Map
7-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify the canyon roads for which the
county has maintenance responsibility and to classify the roads for the level
of maintenance to be performed. (1988 Code § 9.40.010)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CANYON ROADS: Canyon roads for which the county has maintenance responsibility.
They include:
Chalk Creek.
Corn Creek.
Fool Creek.
Maple Grove.
Maple Hollow.
Oak Creek Canyon.
DRY ROAD SURFACE: Road surfaces that can be maintained only during periods of
dry or fair weather.
SUMMER MAINTENANCE: Routine maintenance that can be performed between June 1
and September 15. (1988 Code § 9.40.020)
7-6-3: ROADS CLASSIFIED:
Canyon roads shall be classified according to the following categories:
   A.   Category 1 Road: A category 1 road consists of asphalt or concrete
pavement with the following characteristics:
      1.   No lane striping.
      2.   Regulatory and street identification signing.
      3.   Speed limits of five (5) to twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      4.   Summer maintenance only with dry road surface condition.
   B.   Category 2 Road: A category 2 road consists of gravel surface with the
following characteristics:
      1.   No lane striping.
      2.   No regulatory and street identification signing.
      3.   Speed limits of five (5) to twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      4.   Summer maintenance only with dry road surface condition.
   C.   Category 3 Road: A category 3 road consists of dirt surface with the
following characteristics:
      1.   No lane striping.
      2.   No regulatory and street identification signing.
      3.   Speed limits of five (5) to twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      4.   Summer maintenance only with dry road surface condition. (1988 Code
§ 9.40.030)
7-6-4: CLASSIFICATION MAP:
   A.   Map Established: The identification, location and categorization of
canyon roads for which the county has a maintenance responsibility shall be
placed on a map entitled the "Canyon Road Classification Map" which shall be on
file in the county road department. Such map, before becoming effective, shall
be approved by the board of county commissioners. (1988 Code § 9.40.040)
   B.   Amendments To Map: Amendments to the canyon road classification map may
be made by the supervisor of the county road department upon approval of the
board of county commissioners. Amendments to the categorization of canyon roads
shall be considered on the basis of safety, cost benefit ration and
serviceability factors. (1988 Code § 9.40.050)
CHAPTER 7
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE ROUTES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Routes Designated
7-7-2: Restrictions; Supervision Required
7-7-3: Penalty
7-7-1: ROUTES DESIGNATED:
The following county roads are designated as off highway vehicle routes for the
specific purpose of gaining direct access to or from a private or public area
open for off highway vehicle use, where persons, subject to the provisions of
Utah Code Annotated title 41, chapter 6, unless specifically excluded
otherwise, may legally operate off highway vehicles, as defined and in
compliance with Utah Code Annotated title 41, chapter 22:
Commencing Scipio Town boundary (old Highway 99), thence westerly and southerly
on East Frontage Road to Wild Goose turnoff, thence easterly on Wild Goose Road
to U.S. forest service boundaries.
Commencing Eight Mile overpass on I-15, thence northerly and westerly on
graveled county road to Highway 125 (near Oak City).
Commencing intersection Highway 50 and Deseret Harding Road, thence easterly to
graveled county road going to Oak City.
Commencing on graveled county road and Whiskey Creek turnoff, thence northerly
and easterly on Whiskey Creek Road to U.S. forest service, or bureau of land
management boundaries.
Commencing from Eight Mile overpass on I-15, thence southerly and westerly on
West Frontage Road to Holden Town boundary.
Commencing Wild Goose turnoff on East Frontage Road I-15, thence southerly on
county road to Frampton Heights turnoff on Junk Yard Road (500 South Fillmore).
Commencing Holden Town boundary and Wide Canyon Road, thence easterly on Wide
Canyon Road to bureau of land management and U.S. forest service boundaries.
Commencing South Holden interchange I-15, thence easterly on Maple Hollow Road
to bureau of land management and U.S. Forest service boundary.
Commencing Fillmore City boundary (500 North), thence easterly to U.S. forest
service boundary.
Commencing Fillmore City boundary Pink Elephant Lane, thence westerly on Old
Field Road to Highway 100, thence westerly to Clear Lake Road, thence westerly
to Pahvant Butte turnoff.
Commencing at Fillmore City boundary, 200 South (Canyon Road), thence easterly
to U.S. forest service boundaries (ATV trails at upper water tank).
Commencing at Fillmore City boundary, Sand Rock Ridge Road, thence southerly to
U.S. forest service boundary.
Commencing at Fillmore City boundary, 100 East and 500 South, thence southerly
to U.S. forest service boundary.
Commencing at Fillmore City boundary 200 West and 500 South, thence southerly
to Utah state lands boundary, thence northerly to 900 South and SR 99.
Commencing at Fillmore City boundary, 200 West and 500 South, thence southerly
on county and bureau of land management roads to Meadow Creek Road, thence
westerly on Meadow Creek Road to 900 East Meadow, thence south to 100 North, to
Meadow Town boundary.
Commencing Meadow Town boundary, 100 South and 500 East, thence easterly on
Meadow Dam Road, thence across dam to intersection of Meadow Creek Road.
Commencing at Fillmore City boundary, 200 South and 400 West, thence west on
200 South (Airport Road) to bureau of land management boundary.
Commencing Meadow Town boundary, 100 South and 200 West, thence west on Hot
Springs Road to Murray Lane, thence westerly to Kanosh City boundary.
Commencing on East Frontage Road and Meadow Canyon Road, thence easterly on
Meadow Canyon Road to bureau of land management and U.S. forest service
boundary.
Commencing at Meadow Town boundary, 500 East and 100 South, thence southerly
and easterly on Dry Creek Road to U.S. forest service boundary.
Commencing at Meadow Town boundary, Center Street and 100 East, thence westerly
to bureau of land management boundary.
Commencing at Meadow Town boundary, Murray Lane, thence easterly and northerly
to bureau of land management boundary.
Commencing at Kanosh Town boundary, 100 North and 200 West, thence westerly to
bureau of land management boundary.
Commencing at Kanosh Town boundary, 300 South and 200 East, Kanosh Canyon Road,
thence easterly to U.S. forest service boundary.
Commencing at Kanosh Town boundary, Main and 300 South, thence southerly to
Kanosh Cemetery Road, thence westerly and southerly to U.S. forest service
boundaries. Also continuing along County Road southerly and westerly to Cove
Fort.
   (2005 Code)
7-7-2: RESTRICTIONS; SUPERVISION REQUIRED:
Any operator of an off highway vehicle who is under sixteen (16) years of age
must be under the direct visual supervision of an adult who is at least
eighteen (18) years of age while using a route designated under Section
7-7-1 of this chapter. (2005 Code)
7-7-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a class C
misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 8
SHADE TREES
SECTION:
7-8-1: Care Of Trees Required
7-8-2: Authority Of County To Condemn, Remove And Trim Trees
7-8-1: CARE OF TREES REQUIRED:
In all cases, the abutting property owner who receives the beneficial use of
and benefit from trees is to care for and water the same. Failure to care for
trees may constitute a nuisance. (1988 Code § 9.28.010)
7-8-2: AUTHORITY OF COUNTY TO CONDEMN, REMOVE AND TRIM TREES:
   A.   Condemnation And Removal: The county road department, upon giving
proper notice to the abutting property owner, shall have the authority to
condemn and remove, or order the removal by the abutting property owner, of any
tree, tree stump, shrub or vine upon any county roads, avenues or ways where
the tree, tree stump, shrub or vine is dead, diseased or for any other reason
undesirable.
   B.   Trimming And Pruning: The highway division shall have authority to trim
or prune any road tree or remove any tree that is in violation of any county
ordinance, without serving notice upon the abutting property owner. (1988 Code
§ 9.28.020)
CHAPTER 9
STREET VACATIONS
SECTION:
7-9-1: Purpose
7-9-2: Definition
7-9-3: Conditions For Vacation
7-9-4: Fees And Advertising Costs
7-9-5: Legal Interest Of County
7-9-6: Evaluation Of Need For Street
7-9-7: Compensation
7-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a consistent standard regarding
compensation to the county for the vacation and/or transfer of its interest in
public streets. Vacation of the county's interest in streets should be viewed
as a transfer of a substantial property right for which the public should be
compensated. To prevent windfall enrichment to abutting property owners at
public expense, such transfer should not be made without compensation being
paid to the county. (1988 Code § 9.32.010)
7-9-2: DEFINITION:
"Street" means all major and minor streets, alleys, walkways, and trails. (1988
Code § 9.32.020)
7-9-3: CONDITIONS FOR VACATION:
Petitions for vacation of public streets shall be considered on the basis of
the following:
   A.   Alleys, Walkways And Trails: Alleys, walkways and trails are not
generally within the current planning and maintenance policies of the county.
Vacation of an alley, walkway or trail relieves the county from present or
future obligations to maintain such alley, walkway or trail. This benefit to
the county is declared to be adequate compensation for the county's interest.
Where appropriate, the county may require conditions precedent to the vacation
of any alley, walkway or trail, such as installation of landscaping, fencing or
other improvements which must be completed or bonded for prior to the enactment
of the vacation ordinance.
   B.   Major And Minor Streets: Major and minor streets shall not be vacated
or permanently closed unless adequate compensation has been paid for the
transfer of the county's interest in the land. (1988 Code § 9.32.030)
7-9-4: FEES AND ADVERTISING COSTS:
No petition for vacation of a county street shall be considered unless
accompanied by a fee in such amount as established by the county commission to
cover costs of review by county personnel. The petitioner shall pay all
advertising costs for public notices required for vacation hearings. (1988 Code
§ 9.32.040; amd. 2005 Code)
7-9-5: LEGAL INTEREST OF COUNTY:
No action shall be taken on any petition to vacate a street until the county
real estate section identifies and verifies the specific manner in which the
county acquired its interest in the street and the county attorney determines
the county's legal interest in the street. (1988 Code § 9.32.050)
7-9-6: EVALUATION OF NEED FOR STREET:
Each petition shall be evaluated in terms of the current use of the street and
the need in the foreseeable future for its use as a public street or for any
other public purpose. If such need exists or may exist in the foreseeable
future, the petition shall be denied. (1988 Code § 9.32.060)
7-9-7: COMPENSATION:
Any action providing vacation, sale or other transfer of the county's interest
in any street where compensation is required shall be conditioned upon prior
payment of such compensation and shall not be completed by an enactment of the
ordinance until all required compensation is paid to the county, together with
advertising costs for all public notices. Generally, such compensation shall be
the fair market value of the land. In appropriate cases, compensation may be
provided for in part or in whole through an exchange of land or relocation of
streets within an existing subdivision. Where the county's interest in a street
is transferred to another public entity for a public use which benefits the
county, the board of county commissioners may determine that the benefit to the
county from such use is adequate compensation for the land. Where appropriate,
the county may require conditions precedent such as the installation of
landscaping, fencing, or other improvements which must be completed or bonded
for prior to the enactment of a vacation ordinance. (1988 Code § 9.32.070)
CHAPTER 10
PROPERTY ADDRESSES
SECTION:
7-10-1: Purpose
7-10-2: Administration Of Provisions
7-10-3: Procedure
7-10-4: Display Of Addresses
7-10-5: Permits Requiring Address Display
7-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish an orderly method of addressing
within the unincorporated areas of the county, making it easier for government
agencies, county services, and interested parties to locate county residents.
(Ord. 9.44, 2-9-2004, eff. 3-1-2004)
7-10-2: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Designation Of Addresses; Address Required: The county building and
zoning department is authorized to designate addresses for all locations in the
unincorporated areas of the county. Said department shall issue addresses
according to the procedures set out in this chapter. The department is required
to issue addresses under the following circumstances:
      1.   For all building, electrical, plumbing or mechanical permits.
      2.   For all certificates of occupancy issued by the county.
      3.   For all business licenses issued by the county.
      4.   For all persons requesting an address for property in the county.
      5.   For all lots in subdivisions in the unincorporated areas of the
county.
      6.   Upon request of the county assessor, for all properties within the
county.
   B.   Installation Of Street Signs: The county road superintendent is hereby
authorized to place street signs at appropriate intersections in the
unincorporated areas in accordance with the street designations on the official
street map of county.
   C.   Use Of Addressing System: All agencies under the administration of the
board of county commissioners shall display and use in their daily operations
the official street map and address designation of the addressing system of the
county. (Ord. 9.44, 2-9-2004, eff. 3-1-2004)
7-10-3: PROCEDURE:
The procedure for addressing locations in the unincorporated areas shall be as
follows:
   A.   All street addresses shall be on the basis of a grid system of
addresses, emanating from the starting points in northerly, easterly, westerly
or southerly directions.
   B.   All addressing shall be required to display two (2) directions
indicating in which of the four (4) main quadrants the address is located. The
four (4) main quadrants are: northeast, northwest, southeast, and southwest.
(Ord. 9.44, 2-9-2004, eff. 3-1-2004)
   C.   There shall be three (3) addressing grids and starting points in the
county, namely, the Fillmore grid, the Delta grid, and the West Desert grid.
The starting point for the Fillmore grid shall be the center of the
intersection of Center Street and Main Street. The starting point for the Delta
grid shall be the center of the intersection of 100 West and Main Street. The
starting point for the West Desert grid shall be the southeast corner of
section 36, township 20 south, range 19 west, Salt Lake Base and Meridian. All
locations on the south and east portions of the county generally shall be
numbered according to the Fillmore starting point. All locations in the north
and west portions of the county lying east of the West Desert grid generally
shall be numbered according to the Delta starting point. All locations in the
extreme western portions of the county generally shall be numbered according to
the West Desert starting point. (Ord. 9.44, 2-9-2004, eff. 3-1-2004; amd. 2005
Code)
   D.   Addressing from the Fillmore and Delta starting points shall meet
generally along a southwest-northwest diagonal line which runs through the
undeveloped area about halfway between the two (2) cities. Addressing from the
Delta and West Desert starting points shall meet along latitude line West
113°30'. In all cases, the line shown on the official street map of the county
shall govern.
   E.   All addresses in the Fillmore grid shall be given on the basis of seven
hundred (700) numbers per mile north, south, east or west of Fillmore. All
addresses in the Delta and West Desert grids shall be given on the basis of one
thousand (1,000) numbers per mile north, south, east or west.
   F.   All even numbered street numbers shall be on the right hand side of the
street as the addressing system proceeds away from the starting point or in the
direction of increasing numbers.
   G.   The formula for designating an address in the Fillmore grid shall be as
follows:
Distance = distance in feet from section line to main access
Distance/5280 = %
%/.1429 x 100 + section line address = address
   H.   The formula for designating addresses in the Delta and West Desert
grids shall be as follows:
Address = location of the main access for the residence or business in miles
north, south, east or west of the starting point taken, times 1,000.
   I.   All addresses shall be rounded up to the next odd or even number as
determined above, plus the designation of the street the residence or business
abuts.
   J.   House numbers always precede street numbers.
   K.   Streets may be given a name designation as well as a number
designation.
   L.   Diagonal streets shall be numbered separately as determined by the
county surveyor or his or her designated agent. (Ord. 9.44, 2-9-2004, eff. 3-1-
2004)
7-10-4: DISPLAY OF ADDRESSES:
   A.   Display Required: In order for the addressing system to be effective,
participation in the addressing system must be extensive. Therefore, before the
issuance of final approval for the permits listed below, it will be necessary
for residences or businesses to display the designated address on the front
face of the building in close proximity to the main access, or on a post
immediately adjacent to the main access to the property.
   B.   Specifications: All addresses must be displayed with permanently
affixed letters or painted in letters contrasting with the face of the building
or sign. All letters must be at least four inches (4") high and proportionately
wide enough to make the address legible from the closest public vantage point.
(Ord. 9.44, 2-9-2004, eff. 3-1-2004; amd. 2005 Code)
7-10-5: PERMITS REQUIRING ADDRESS DISPLAY:
   A.   The following permits require address display:
Type Of Permit When Address Display Is To Be Completed
Type Of Permit           When Address Display Is To Be Completed
                         
Building                 Prior to final inspection
Electrical alone         Prior to final inspection
Plumbing alone           Prior to final inspection
Mechanical               Prior to final inspection
Certificate of occupancy Prior to issuance
Business license         Prior to issuance
 
   B.   The county building and zoning department shall not issue any of the
above approvals unless the applicant for any of the above permits complies with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 9.44, 2-9-2004, eff. 3-1-2004)
TITLE 8
PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 1
GUNNISON BEND PARK
SECTION:
8-1-1: Park Established
8-1-2: Park Administrator
8-1-3: Disputes And Decisions
8-1-4: Hours Of Operation
8-1-5: Rules And Regulations
8-1-6: Violation; Penalty
8-1-1: PARK ESTABLISHED:
The county hereby establishes the Gunnison Bend Park (also referred to in this
chapter as the "park") for the use, enjoyment, and recreation of the county's
citizens and visitors. The park boundaries are on file in the office of the
county clerk for public use and inspection. (1988 Code § 8.01.010; amd. 2005
Code)
8-1-2: PARK ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Administrator Designated: The county commissioners shall, from time to
time, designate an individual as the park administrator. Said person shall
faithfully perform his duties as established by the commissioners and as
dictated by the provisions of this chapter. (1988 Code § 8.01.020)
   B.   Duties: The park administrator's duties include, but are not limited
to:
      1.   Screening applicants for, and hiring of, the park custodian.
      2.   Scheduling all events which will occur on the premises of the park.
      3.   Overseeing the operations and maintenance of the park.
      4.   Coordinating with the state any programs regarding administration of
the park. Such programs might include: placement of buoys, establishment of
swimming areas, and administration of law enforcement policies. (1988 Code §
8.01.030)
8-1-3: DISPUTES AND DECISIONS:
All major decisions regarding the use of the park shall be resolved by the
board of county commissioners. (1988 Code § 8.01.030)
8-1-4: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The Gunnison Bend Park shall be open to the public during the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. daily. The park
administrator may alter the park hours as he feels necessary unless ordered
otherwise by the county commissioners. (1988 Code § 8.01.040)
8-1-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Camping: It is unlawful for any person to camp overnight within the
boundaries of the park. (1988 Code § 8.01.050)
   B.   Animals: It is unlawful for any person to possess within the boundaries
of the park any animal, pet or livestock, unless said animal, pet or livestock
is at all times confined inside a vehicle, cage or secure box. Dogs trained to
assist handicapped persons, such as seeing eye dogs for the blind, and dogs
used by law enforcement agencies are the exception to this rule. (1988 Code §
8.01.060; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Games In Unauthorized Areas: No person shall play ball games,
horseshoes, or other similar activities in picnic or campground areas except in
designated areas.
   D.   Sound Amplification; Permit Required: No person shall use outside
electronic sound equipment, including electrical speakers, at a volume which
emits sounds beyond the immediate individual picnic site without prior,
specific, written permission of the park administrator. (1988 Code § 8.01.080)
   E.   Public Nuisance: No person shall commit a public nuisance within the
park. For the purpose of this chapter, a "public nuisance" is a crime against
the order and economy of the state and its citizens and consists in unlawfully
doing any act or omitting to perform any duty, which act or omission either:
      1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of three (3) or more persons; or
      2.   Offends public decency; or
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage, the reservoir or any public area; or
      4.   In any way renders three (3) or more persons insecure in life or
limb or in the use of the park. (1988 Code § 8.01.070)
   F.   Disorderly Conduct And Assemblies: No person shall use threatening,
abusive, boisterous, insulting, or indecent language or make an indecent
gesture in the park; nor shall any person conduct or participate in a
disorderly assemblage. (1988 Code § 8.01.080)
   G.   Disturbing The Peace: No person shall maliciously or wilfully disturb
the peace and quiet of any other person by loud or unusual noise, by
discharging firearms, by tumultuous or offensive conduct, by threatening,
quarreling, challenging to fight, or by fighting within the park or its
immediate surrounding area. (1988 Code § 8.01.100)
   H.   Disrobing: No person shall disrobe within the boundaries of the park
except in a properly enclosed building, tent or vehicle. Clothing sufficient to
conform to common standards of decency in the community shall be worn at all
times. (1988 Code § 8.01.090)
   I.   Peddling And Soliciting: No person shall solicit, sell, hawk, peddle or
distribute any goods, wares, merchandise, liquids, edibles, or circulars within
the park without prior written approval from the park administrator. Those
persons receiving approval from the park administrator are still subject to the
provisions of title 4, chapter 3 of this code. (1988 Code § 8.01.110)
   J.   Alcohol And Drugs:
      1.   Under Influence: No person shall be in an intoxicated condition or
under the influence of illicit drugs within the park.
      2.   Possession; Amount: No person shall have in his or her possession
within the park a container which contains an alcoholic beverage in excess of
one fluid gallon unless prior written approval has been obtained from the park
administrator. (1988 Code § 8.01.120)
      3.   Minors: No minor, while within the park, shall have in his or her
possession any alcoholic beverage. (1988 Code § 8.01.130)
   K.   Glass Containers: No person, while within the boundaries of the park,
shall have in his or her possession any glass beverage container. (1988 Code §
8.01.120)
   L.   Vehicle Operation: Vehicles within the park shall be operated only upon
such roads and parking areas designated for vehicular use. No person shall park
a vehicle except in the areas designated and marked for that purpose. (1988
Code § 8.01.140)
   M.   Discharge Of Weapons 1 : No person shall discharge within the
boundaries of the park any firearm, bow and arrow, crossbow, air or gas weapon,
or any other similar device capable of injuring or killing any animal or human,
or damaging or destroying public or private property. (1988 Code § 8.01.150;
amd. 2005 Code)
   N.   Reservation Of Pavilion Or Fire Pit Area: The pavilion and fire pit
areas located within the park may be reserved in advance by contacting the park
administrator. The county commissioners shall establish fees and regulations
for reservation of the pavilion, the fire pit, and any other public facilities
within the park. (1988 Code § 8.01.160)
   O.   Open Fires: No person shall light, build or maintain an open fire
within the boundaries of the park, except in a fireplace or fire pit provided
or designated by the park administrator. (1988 Code § 8.01.170)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-3-1B of this code for general prohibition.
8-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a
class B misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 8.01.180; amd. 2005 Code)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Copies On File
9-1-3: Amendments To Codes
9-1-4: Abandonment Of Construction
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The following codes are hereby adopted in their entirety by the county by
reference:
   A.   International building code, current edition;
   B.   National electrical code, current edition;
   C.   International plumbing code, current edition;
   D.   International fire code, current edition;
   E.   International mechanical code, current edition;
   F.   International code for the abatement of dangerous buildings, current
edition;
   G.   International residential code. (2005 Code)
9-1-2: COPIES ON FILE:
Three (3) copies of each code adopted herein shall be immediately filed in the
office of the county clerk for use and examination by the public. (2005 Code)
9-1-3: AMENDMENTS TO CODES:
Any and all amendments or updates hereafter made to any of said respective
codes hereby adopted shall be automatically incorporated herein and fully
adopted by the county, unless expressly and specifically, by affirmative action
of the county commission, not adopted. (2005 Code)
9-1-4: ABANDONMENT OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Definition:
ABANDONMENT OF CONSTRUCTION: Under a lawfully issued building permit shall
mean: Failure of the owner or owner's authorized agent to call for and obtain
an approved inspection at least once every six (6) months from the date the
building permit is issued until final inspection of the construction project.
APPROVED INSPECTION: The contractor or owner has passed the inspection that was
requested with no corrections pending and has made substantial progress with
the construction project between each inspection.
SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS: Progress of the construction project shall be determined
at the sole discretion of the building inspector. (Ord. 09-07-07, 7-7-2009)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, DECLARATION OF INTENT AND EFFECTIVE DATE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: Declaration
10-1-4: Purpose
10-1-5: Definitions
10-1-6: Administrative Guidelines, Standards, And Other Materials; Compliance
Required
10-1-7: Applicability
10-1-8: Conflict
10-1-9: Permits And Licenses To Conform To This Title
10-1-10: Effective Date
10-1-11: Omissions Not A Waiver
10-1-12: Repealer And Effect
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be referred to as the MILLARD COUNTY ZONING
ORDINANCE. The Millard County zoning ordinance may, in subsequent chapters and
sections, and in the administrative manual be referred to as "ordinance", "the
ordinance", "this ordinance" or "zoning ordinance". This ordinance may be
codified in the Millard County code. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
The board of county commissioners of Millard County, Utah (hereinafter "BOCC")
adopts this title pursuant to the state of Utah county land use, development,
and management act, as provided at section 17-27a-101 et seq., Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, as amended (hereinafter "the act") and all other authorities
and provisions of Utah and federal statutory and common law, as applicable.
This title constitutes part, and is a component of, the Millard County land use
ordinances, as provided and authorized by the act. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-1-3: DECLARATION:
This title provides for the establishment of zoning districts, with associated
requirements, standards, and other provisions for the guidance, management, and
regulation of land uses, buildings and structures, and activities occurring on
all unincorporated areas located within the boundaries of Millard County. This
title is declared to be consistent with, and to meet the requirements of the
act. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-1-4: PURPOSE:
This title is provided to implement the goals and policies of the Millard
County general plan (hereinafter "general plan") and the other purposes, as
provided by the act. This title contains standards, provisions and requirements
intended to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens and
businesses of Millard County, to guide and manage growth and development, and
to promote the orderly use of all unincorporated lands within the county. It is
the purpose of this title to provide a means of ensuring predictability and
consistency in the use and development of all unincorporated lands within the
county. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
All definitions included in the administrative manual are incorporated herein
by this reference and shall be considered as if they are included and part of
this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-1-6: ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES, STANDARDS, AND OTHER MATERIALS; COMPLIANCE
REQUIRED:
   A.   The BOCC may provide a "Land Use Ordinances Administrative Manual"
(hereinafter "administrative manual") to provide administrative guidelines,
standards, forms, and other documents to assist the county staff, county
residents, and applicant(s) in providing and processing applications and
interpreting and administering the county's land use ordinances, including this
title.
   B.   When provided by the BOCC the land use applications required by this
title shall be reviewed and approved or denied by the land use authority, as
applicable, in compliance with all requirements and standards of this title and
all guidelines, standards, forms, or other documents, as applicable, and in
effect on the date an application is determined complete by the county planner/
zoning administrator. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-1-7: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Applications accepted as complete for any approval required by the
provisions of this title shall be processed, reviewed and approved or denied,
subject to the provisions of this title and all other ordinances and
resolutions of the county, as applicable and in effect at the time the
application is determined to be "complete", by the Millard County planner/
zoning administrator (hereinafter "county planner/zoning administrator") as
required by this title and all other ordinances and resolutions, as applicable.
   B.   No building or structure shall be erected, and no existing building or
structure shall be moved, altered or enlarged nor shall any land, building or
premises be used, designed or intended to be used for any use, activity,
purpose, or in any manner other than as allowed by this title.
   C.   The provisions of this title shall apply to all unincorporated lands
located within the boundaries of Millard County, unless exempted by the
provisions of this title, or other law.
   D.   The provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum
requirements necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of Millard County, and achieve the purposes of this title and the act.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-1-8: CONFLICT:
This title shall not nullify any laws, ordinances, or requirements that are
more restrictive, but shall prevail notwithstanding such laws, ordinances, or
requirements that are less restrictive. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-1-9: PERMITS AND LICENSES TO CONFORM TO THIS TITLE:
All officials, employees, and agents with the duty or authority to issue
approvals, permits, or licenses required by this title shall require that such
approvals, permits, or licenses conform to the provisions of this title and
shall not issue any approval, permit, or license for any use(s), activity(ies),
building(s), or structure(s) in conflict with the provisions of this title. Any
approval, permit, or license issued in violation of this title shall be invalid
and void. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-1-10: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This title shall take effect on January 1, 2013. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-1-11: OMISSIONS NOT A WAIVER:
An omission to specify or enumerate in this title those provisions of general
law applicable to all Utah counties shall not be construed to be a waiver of
any such laws. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-1-12: REPEALER AND EFFECT:
Upon its adoption by the BOCC, and upon its effective date, the ordinance
codified herein shall repeal the zoning regulations, county code of Millard
County, Utah, existing prior to the effective date hereof. This title shall
govern and apply to the use of all unincorporated lands located within the
boundaries of Millard County, Utah. The provisions of this title shall be
construed to carry out the purposes of this title and the purposes of the state
of Utah enabling laws, including the act, and to avoid conflict with the laws
of the United States Of America, the state of Utah, or any other limitations
imposed by law. If a court of competent jurisdiction declares any chapter,
section, subsection, provision, sentence, clause or word of this title
unconstitutional, such determination shall not impair the validity of the
remainder of this title, which shall remain in effect. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
CHAPTER 2
LAND USE AUTHORITIES
SECTION:
10-2-1: Land Use Authorities Generally
10-2-2: Board Of County Commissioners
10-2-3: Planning Commission
10-2-4: County Planner/Zoning Administrator
10-2-5: Land Use Hearing Officer
10-2-6: Support
10-2-7: Meetings And Public Hearings
10-2-8: Exactions
10-2-9: Acquisition, Removal Or Allowance Of A Billboard
10-2-10: Acquiring Property
10-2-1: LAND USE AUTHORITIES GENERALLY:
The land use authorities identified by this title shall have responsibilities
for implementing and administering the Millard County general plan, this title,
the Millard County subdivision ordinance, and the county's other land use
ordinances and resolutions, as provided and allowed by the act. The county's
land use authorities, with their respective responsibilities and other
organization and functioning items, are identified by the following sections.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-2-2: BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Powers And Duties: The BOCC is both a land use authority and appeals
authority, as defined by the act, and shall have the following powers and
duties under this title:
      1.   To appoint members of a planning commission to carry out the duties
and responsibilities as provided by this title.
      2.   To appoint a land use hearing officer to carry out the duties and
responsibilities as provided by this title.
      3.   To appoint a county planner/zoning administrator for the efficient
and consistent administration of this title and to carry out the duties and
responsibilities as provided by this title.
      4.   To initiate and adopt amendments to the Millard County general plan,
and all elements of the general plan.
      5.   To initiate and adopt amendments to the county's land use
ordinances, including this title.
      6.   To initiate and approve amendments to the county's land use
resolutions, including the administrative manual.
      7.   To approve, approve with conditions, or deny all conditional C-2 use
applications.
      8.   To approve, approve with requirements, or deny all preliminary
subdivision (major) applications and all final subdivision (major)
applications.
      9.   To appoint a recording secretary for all land use authorities, as
identified herein.
      10.   To render a decision, or appoint a hearing officer to render a
recommendation to the BOCC prior to a BOCC decision, if an applicant asserts a
deprivation of, or has been subject to a taking of property without just
compensation, or asserts some other constitutional invalidity, as provided by
chapter 24 of this title.
      11.   By resolution to establish a fee schedule for all approvals,
permits and licenses required by this title.
      12.   To approve all bylaws, policies, and procedures for the conduct of
all duties and meetings, for the consideration of applications, and for any
other purposes for the efficient functioning of the county's land use
authorities.
      13.   To take such other action(s) not expressly delegated to any other
land use authority.
   B.   Effective Date Of Decisions, Exceptions, Meeting Minutes: All decisions
of the BOCC, made under this title, shall take effect on the date of the BOCC
meeting when the decision is made, unless a different date is designated by the
BOCC at the time the decision is made. The minutes of all meetings of the BOCC
shall be filed in the office of the Millard County clerk (hereinafter "county
clerk"). All such records shall be the official record of the BOCC and shall be
available for public review and access in accordance with the state of Utah
government records and access management act (hereinafter "GRAMA"). (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-2-3: PLANNING COMMISSION:
The Millard County planning commission (hereinafter "commission") was
heretofore created and established by the BOCC pursuant to the act, or its
prior enactments. The commission is a land use authority, as defined by the
act.
   A.   Powers And Duties: The commission shall be an advisory body to the BOCC
on legislative matters pertaining to the general plan and land use ordinances.
The commission shall have the following powers and duties under this title:
      1.   To prepare, or cause to be prepared, the proposed Millard County
general plan, any proposed plan element, any amendments thereto, and to
transmit such plan, element or amendments to the BOCC, with the commission's
recommendation.
      2.   To prepare or cause to be prepared all proposed county land use
ordinances, including all maps and text, any amendments thereto, and to
transmit such land use ordinances, maps, text, or amendments thereto to the
BOCC, with the commission's recommendation.
      3.   To approve, approve with revisions, or deny all permitted P-2 use
and sign applications.
      4.   To approve, approve with conditions, or deny all conditional C-1 use
applications.
      5.   To hear, review, and recommend approval, approval with conditions,
or denial of all conditional C-2 use applications and to transmit such
recommendation to the BOCC.
      6.   To approve, approve with conditions, or deny all conditional C-1 and
C-2 sign applications.
      7.   To approve, approve with requirements, or deny all preliminary
subdivision (minor) applications and all final subdivision (minor)
applications.
      8.   To hear, review, and recommend approval, approval with revisions, or
denial of all preliminary subdivision (major) applications and all final
subdivision (major) applications and to transmit such recommendation to the
BOCC.
      9.   To adopt bylaws, policies, and procedures for the conduct of the
duties and meetings of the commission, provided that such bylaws, policies, and
procedures are approved by the BOCC before taking effect.
      10.   Advise the BOCC on all other matters as the BOCC may direct.
   B.   Membership; Appointment, Removal, Terms, And Vacancies:
      1.   The commission shall consist of seven (7) members.
      2.   The members of the commission shall be residents of Millard County.
      3.   The BOCC shall appoint members of the commission.
      4.   The BOCC may remove any member of the commission after a public
hearing and by a majority vote of the BOCC.
      5.   Members of the commission shall serve without compensation, and the
BOCC shall provide for reimbursement to commission members for approved actual
expenses incurred, upon presentation of proper receipts.
      6.   Members of the commission shall serve a term of three (3) years.
Members' terms are to be staggered so that not more than two (2) members' terms
shall expire each year. A commission member shall not be automatically
reappointed.
      7.   At an annual organizational meeting to be held the first regular
meeting in the new calendar year, and at other times as required, the members
of the commission shall, by motion and majority vote of the commission, appoint
one of their members as chair and one of their members as vice chair. The chair
and vice chair shall serve a term of one year. In the absence of the chair, the
vice chair shall act as chair and shall have all powers of the chair.
      8.   The chair, or in the chair's absence, the vice chair shall be in
charge of all proceedings before the commission, and shall take such actions as
necessary to preserve order and the integrity of all proceedings before the
commission.
      9.   Commission vacancies occurring for any reason shall be filled by the
BOCC. Vacancies of the commission occurring in ways other than through the
expiration of terms shall be filled for the remainder of the member's unexpired
term.
   C.   Recording Secretary: The recording secretary shall keep the minutes of
all proceedings of the commission, which minutes shall be the official record
of all proceedings before the commission, attested to by a majority vote of the
members of the commission. The minutes of all meetings of the commission shall
be filed in the office of the county clerk. All such records shall be available
for public review and access in accordance with GRAMA. The recording secretary
shall be compensated as approved by the BOCC.
   D.   Quorum And Necessary Vote: No meeting of the commission shall be called
to order, nor may any business be transacted without a quorum consisting of at
least four (4) members of the commission being present. The chair shall be
included for purposes of establishing a quorum and shall act as a voting member
of the commission. All decisions and recommendations of the commission shall
require the concurring vote of a minimum of four (4) members of the commission.
The commission may transmit reports of its decisions and recommendations to the
BOCC. Any member of the commission may also make a concurring or dissenting
report or recommendation to the BOCC.
   E.   Effective Date Of Decisions: All decisions of the commission shall
become effective on the date of the meeting when the decision is made, unless
the commission at the time the decision is made designates a different date.
   F.   Meetings, Hearings, And Procedure:
      1.   The commission shall establish a regular meeting schedule.
      2.   Special meetings may be requested by a majority vote of the
commission, or by the chair of the commission.
      3.   When a matter is postponed due to lack of a quorum, the matter shall
be rescheduled. The recording secretary shall notify all members of the
commission, and all interested parties, of the date when the commission will
hear the rescheduled matter. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-2-4: COUNTY PLANNER/ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The Millard County planner is hereby designated as the county planner/zoning
administrator and a land use authority, as defined by the act.
   A.   Powers And Duties: It is the responsibility of the county planner/
zoning administrator to ensure all administrative processes, procedures and
other provisions of the land use ordinances are consistently and equitably
applied. The county planner/zoning administrator shall have the following
powers and duties:
      1.   To make necessary interpretations of this title, as provided by the
administrative manual.
      2.   To approve, approve with revisions, or deny all permitted P-1 use
and sign applications.
      3.   To perform and carry out all other duties, as identified herein or
by the county's other land use ordinances and the administrative manual.
      4.   To determine completeness of all land use applications, as required
by chapter 2 of the administrative manual.
      5.   To perform and carry out all other duties, as identified by this
title and the administrative manual. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-2-5: LAND USE HEARING OFFICER:
The Millard County land use hearing officer (hereinafter "LUHO") is both a land
use authority and appeals authority, as defined by the act.
   A.   Powers And Duties: The LUHO shall:
      1.   Hear and decide applications for a variance from the terms of this
title, with a finding of an unreasonable hardship as required by the act, and
as provided by chapter 11 of this title.
      2.   Hear and decide applications for a determination of a nonconforming
use, noncomplying structure, or other nonconformity, as provided by chapter 12
of this title.
      3.   To act as an appeal authority, as provided by chapter 14 of this
title.
      4.   Recommend to the commission and BOCC amendments to the Millard
County general plan and any county land use ordinance, as the LUHO considers
necessary.
      5.   To adopt bylaws, policies, and procedures for the conduct of the
duties and meetings of the LUHO, provided that such bylaws, policies, and
procedures are approved by the BOCC before taking effect.
   B.   No Power Or Authority Of Consideration: The LUHO shall have no power or
authority to consider any of the following:
      1.   To hear and decide a variance or waiver to any of the standards
governing the approval of a general plan amendment application, or land use
ordinance amendment application.
      2.   To hear and decide any applications for a general plan amendment.
      3.   To hear and decide any applications for any land use ordinance
amendment.
      4.   Make any decisions or determinations that would have the effect of
authorizing a use, which is not identified in section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses.
      5.   To take any other action, or make any decision, not expressly
provided by this section.
   C.   Membership; Appointment, Removal, Terms, And Vacancies:
      1.   The LUHO shall consist of a single person.
      2.   The BOCC shall appoint the LUHO.
      3.   The BOCC may remove the LUHO with cause in writing.
      4.   The LUHO shall serve with compensation, and the BOCC shall provide
for reimbursement to the LUHO for approved actual expenses incurred, upon
presentation of proper receipts.
      5.   The LUHO shall serve a term of five (5) years. The LUHO shall not be
automatically reappointed.
   D.   Recording Secretary: The recording secretary shall keep the minutes of
all proceedings of the LUHO, which minutes shall be the official record of all
proceedings before the LUHO. The minutes of all meetings of the LUHO shall be
filed in the office of the county clerk. All such records shall be available
for public review and access in accordance with GRAMA. The recording secretary
shall be compensated as approved by the BOCC.
   E.   Effective Date Of Decisions: All decisions of the LUHO shall become
effective on the date of the meeting when the decision is made, unless a
different date is designated by the LUHO at the time the decision is made.
   F.   Meetings, Hearings, And Procedure:
      1.   Regular meetings of the LUHO shall be held as required. (Ord. 12-12-
04, 12-4-2012)
10-2-6: SUPPORT:
The officers and staff of the county shall provide support and assistance to
the BOCC, commission, county planner/zoning administrator and LUHO, as required
to effectively implement the general plan and land use ordinances. (Ord. 12-12-
04, 12-4-2012)
10-2-7: MEETINGS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS:
All meetings and hearings of the BOCC, commission, and LUHO required by the
land use ordinances, including this title, shall comply with the provisions for
such meetings and hearings, and the requirements of the Utah Code Annotated, as
amended, for open and public meetings. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-2-8: EXACTIONS:
A land use authority may impose an exaction, or exactions, on a land use
application if:
   A.   An essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
each exaction; and
   B.   Each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and in extent,
to the impact being created by the proposed use, activity, or development.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-2-9: ACQUISITION, REMOVAL OR ALLOWANCE OF A BILLBOARD:
The county shall comply with all requirements of the act when a billboard is
acquired by the county by eminent domain, or when the county requires the
removal of a billboard without compensation, or when a billboard is determined
to be a nonconforming use or noncomplying structure. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-2-10: ACQUIRING PROPERTY:
   A.   The county may acquire property through purchase, gift, voluntary
dedication, or eminent domain.
   B.   A land use authority may require the public dedication and improvement
of a road, street, or other infrastructure or facility if the county, because
of a proposed use activity or development finds the road, street, or other
infrastructure or facility necessary, and with a finding that such requirement
complies with the standards of section
10-2-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 3
LAND USE APPLICATIONS; DECISION MAKING STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Various Applications Provided
10-3-2: Decision Making Standards
10-3-1: VARIOUS APPLICATIONS PROVIDED:
   A.   This title and the administrative manual provide for a number of land
use applications.
   B.   The land use applications required by this title and the administrative
manual shall be reviewed and approved or denied by the land use authority, as
applicable, and in compliance with all requirements and standards of this title
and the administrative manual, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-3-2: DECISION MAKING STANDARDS:
The decision making standards set forth in this chapter are provided, based on
the distinction between legislative and administrative proceedings. Legislative
proceedings establish public law and policy that is applicable generally, while
administrative proceedings apply public law and policy to factually distinct,
individual circumstances.
   A.   Legislative Proceedings: The BOCC is hereby identified to be the only
land use authority of the county authorized to render a decision on any
application determined to be a legislative matter and subject to a legislative
proceeding. The following applications and actions are declared to be
legislative matters and subject to legislative proceedings:
      1.   General plan adoption.
      2.   General plan amendment application.
      3.   Land use ordinance adoption.
      4.   Land use ordinance amendment application.
      5.   Zoning districts map amendment application (rezones).
      6.   Official map amendment application.
      7.   Temporary land use regulations.
   B.   Legislative Proceedings; Decision Standards: A decision regarding a
legislative matter shall be based on the "reasonably debatable" standard, as
follows:
      1.   In rendering a decision for a legislative matter, involving a
legislative proceeding, the BOCC may consider the following to promote the
public health, safety, and the public interest of the county and its residents:
         a.   Reports, information and testimony presented at the public
hearing(s) or public meeting(s) when the legislative matter was considered; and
         b.   The personal knowledge of BOCC members regarding the various
conditions and activities bearing on the issue.
      2.   The BOCC shall identify the basis, and any findings of fact for the
decision, in the public record of the meeting when the legislative matter is
decided.
   C.   Administrative Proceedings: The following types of applications are
hereby declared to be administrative matters and subject to administrative
proceedings:
      1.   Permitted P-1 use application.
      2.   Permitted P-1 sign application.
      3.   Permitted P-2 use application.
      4.   Permitted P-2 sign application.
      5.   Conditional C-1 use application.
      6.   Conditional C-1 sign application.
      7.   Conditional C-2 use application.
      8.   Conditional C-2 sign application.
      9.   All subdivision applications, including all preliminary and final
subdivision applications.
      10.   Applications for a determination of nonconforming use(s),
noncomplying structure(s), and other nonconformities.
      11.   Variance application.
      12.   Building permit application.
      13.   Determination of application completeness.
      14.   All development agreements.
      15.   All other applications for any necessary approval, permit, or
license required by the provisions of this title, and not identified to be a
legislative matter, subject to legislative proceedings, as identified by this
section.
   D.   Administrative Proceedings; Decision Standards: All decisions regarding
an administrative matter shall be based on the "substantial evidence" standard
including, as a minimum, the following:
      1.   A statement of the standards for approval applicable to the
application;
      2.   A summary of the facts and evidence presented to the land use
authority at the public hearing(s) or public meeting(s) when the administrative
matter was considered;
      3.   A statement of findings of fact or other factors considered,
including the specific references to applicable standards, as set forth in the
land use ordinances, or other provisions; and
      4.   A statement of approval, approval with revisions or conditions, or
disapproval, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 4
LAND USE APPLICATIONS; PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose
10-4-2: Application Forms
10-4-3: Land Use Application Procedures
10-4-4: Determination Of Completeness Of Land Use Applications
10-4-5: Scope Of Land Use Application Approvals
10-4-6: Land Use Authorities To Comply With All Land Use Ordinances And
Resolutions
10-4-7: Land Use Permits Required To Comply With Land Use Authority Decision
10-4-8: Approval Of An Application; Exceptions
10-4-9: Vesting Of Zoning Rights
10-4-10: Procedural Irregularities
10-4-1: PURPOSE:
Land use applications, and their accompanying procedures, are formulated to
achieve the purposes of this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-4-2: APPLICATION FORMS:
The BOCC may provide application forms and may identify submittal requirements
and processing procedures for the acceptance and filing of all land use
applications. Such requirements and procedures may be contained in the
administrative manual. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-4-3: LAND USE APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
The steps in the review and consideration of the various land use applications,
authorized by this title may be provided with the applicable application form.
Such applications may be contained in the administrative manual. (Ord. 12-12-
04, 12-4-2012)
10-4-4: DETERMINATION OF COMPLETENESS OF LAND USE APPLICATIONS:
All land use applications required by this title shall be determined to be
complete, by the county planner/zoning administrator, as required by the
administrative manual and prior to its consideration by a land use authority.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-4-5: SCOPE OF LAND USE APPLICATION APPROVALS:
   A.   The rights conferred by a land use application approval by the land use
authority shall be limited to those rights granted in the applicable provisions
of this title and subject to any requirements or conditions.
   B.   A land use application approval shall be void and invalid one hundred
eighty (180) calendar days after approval, unless the applicant has proceeded
with reasonable diligence to establish the approved use or activity, or unless
the land use authority provides an alternative time period with the land use
application approval.
   C.   A land use application approval shall be invalid and null and void if a
use is not conducted, or a building or structure is established in violation of
any requirements of all land use ordinances, requirements or conditions of
approval. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-4-6: LAND USE AUTHORITIES TO COMPLY WITH ALL LAND USE ORDINANCES AND
RESOLUTIONS:
Each land use authority shall comply with all requirements of all land use
ordinances, as applicable, including this title, and shall comply with all
resolutions, including the administrative manual, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-
04, 12-4-2012)
10-4-7: LAND USE PERMITS REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH LAND USE AUTHORITY DECISION:
All land use permits shall comply with all requirements, conditions, terms and
standards of approval. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-4-8: APPROVAL OF AN APPLICATION; EXCEPTIONS:
An applicant is entitled to the approval of an application, required by this
title, if such application conforms to the requirements of this title, and the
county's other land use ordinances and resolutions, including the
administrative manual, as applicable, and in effect when the application is
determined to be complete by the county planner/zoning administrator unless:
   A.   The land use authority, on the record, finds a compelling,
countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the
application; or
   B.   In the manner provided by this title, and before the application is
submitted or determined to be complete, the county has formally initiated
proceedings to amend its land use ordinances in a manner that would prohibit
approval of the application, as submitted.
   C.   The county shall process an application without regard to proceedings
initiated to amend the county's land use ordinances if:
      1.   One hundred eighty (180) calendar days have passed since the
proceedings were initiated; and
      2.   The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits
approval of the application, as submitted.
   D.   If the land use application conforms fully to this title, the county's
other land use ordinances, and all resolutions including the administrative
manual, the land use application shall be approved.
   E.   The county shall not impose on an applicant, or any holder of any
approval required by this title, any requirement that is not expressed:
      1.   In the approval required by this title, or in documents on which
such approval is based; or
      2.   In this title, or in the county's other land use ordinances and
resolutions.
   F.   The county shall not withhold the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy because of an applicant's failure to comply with a requirement that
is not expressed:
      1.   In the building permit, or in documents on which the building permit
is based;
      2.   In the approval required by this title, or in documents on which
such approval is based; or
      3.   In this title, or the county's other land use ordinances and
resolutions, including the subdivision ordinance and the administrative manual.
   G.   The county shall be bound by the terms and standards of this title, and
the county's other land use ordinances and resolutions, including the
administrative manual, as applicable, and shall comply with all mandatory
requirements and provisions of such ordinances and resolutions.
   H.   The county shall process and render a decision on each application
required by this title with reasonable diligence. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-4-9: VESTING OF ZONING RIGHTS:
On the date of a determination of a complete application by the county planner/
zoning administrator, an application for any land use application, as may be
required by this title, shall vest pursuant to the terms of this title in
effect, unless such vesting is affected by a pending amendment to this title,
or a temporary zoning regulation. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-4-10: PROCEDURAL IRREGULARITIES:
   A.   Validity Of Action: Notwithstanding any provision of this title which
sets forth a procedure for any matter, no action, inaction or recommendation
regarding the matter which is the subject of the procedure shall be void or
invalid or set aside by a court due to any error (including, but not limited
to, any irregularity, informality, neglect or omission) which pertains to an
application, notice, finding, record, hearing, report, recommendation or any
other procedural matter whatsoever unless:
      1.   The procedure is required by state or federal law; and
      2.   In an examination of the circumstances, including the record, the
court is of the opinion that the procedural error complained of was prejudicial
to a substantial right of the complainant as shown by the following:
         a.   Had the error not occurred the decision made pursuant to the
procedure would have been different, and
         b.   Because of the error, the complainant suffered an injury for
which relief must be given.
   B.   Presumption Of Validity: The court shall presume that action taken
pursuant to a procedure was done in good faith and shall not presume that an
error is prejudicial or that an injury occurred. The complainant shall have the
burden of proof to show that an error is prejudicial or that an injury
occurred. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 5
APPLICATIONS TO AMEND GENERAL PLAN
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose
10-5-2: Land Use Authority
10-5-3: Procedures And Review Standards
10-5-4: Findings Required For Approval
10-5-5: Effect Of Approval
10-5-6: Appeals
10-5-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter and the administrative manual provide the minimum standards and
procedures required for the review of applications to amend the county's
general plan.
The Millard County general plan, with its accompanying text and maps, is
considered an advisory policy document for the purposes of land use decision
making. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-5-2: LAND USE AUTHORITY:
The BOCC is authorized as the land use authority responsible to review and
approve, approve with revisions, or deny all general plan amendment
applications. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-5-3: PROCEDURES AND REVIEW STANDARDS:
   A.   The procedures for the review of a general plan amendment application
are identified by chapter 9 of the administrative manual.
   B.   In considering a general plan amendment application, the commission in
formulating a recommendation, and the BOCC in deciding a general plan amendment
application shall consider the following factors, among others:
      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the well being of the
county.
      2.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the public health, welfare,
and safety.
      3.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the interests of the county,
and its residents.
      4.   The ability of the county, and other service providers, as
applicable, to provide all infrastructure, facilities, and services required by
the uses and activities proposed by the amendment.
      5.   Compatibility of the proposed uses and activities with nearby and
adjoining properties.
      6.   The suitability of the properties for the uses and activities
proposed.
      7.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals,
objectives, and policies of the general plan, and listing any revisions to the
county's land use ordinances, and any other ordinances required to implement
the amendment. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-5-4: FINDINGS REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL:
The commission in making a recommendation, and the BOCC in deciding a general
plan amendment application, shall find that all the procedural requirements and
review standards of section
10-5-3 of this chapter have been met. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-5-5: EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
The approval of a general plan amendment application shall not authorize the
development of land. After the BOCC has approved a general plan amendment
application, no development shall occur until the required land use application
approval have been issued by a land use authority, as applicable, consistent
with the requirements of the county's land use ordinances, and other ordinances
and resolutions, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-5-6: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the BOCC for any general plan amendment
application may appeal the decision to the appeal authority, as identified by
chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 6
APPLICATIONS TO AMEND LAND USE ORDINANCES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Land Use Authority
10-6-3: Procedures And Review Standards
10-6-4: Findings Required For Approval
10-6-5: Effect Of Approval
10-6-6: Appeals
10-6-7: Temporary Land Use Regulations
10-6-8: Effect Of A Pending Land Use Ordinance, Official Map Amendment, Or
Temporary Land Use Regulation
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter and the administrative manual provide the standards and procedures
for the review of applications to amend the county's land use ordinances,
including applications to amend this title, including text and map amendments,
a rezone (zoning districts map amendment) or official map amendment.
All Millard County land use ordinances, including this title, with the
accompanying zoning districts map, is considered the county's land use laws for
the purposes of land use decision making. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-6-2: LAND USE AUTHORITY:
The BOCC is authorized as the land use authority responsible to review and
approve, approve with revisions, or deny all land use ordinance amendment
applications. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-6-3: PROCEDURES AND REVIEW STANDARDS:
   A.   The procedures for the review of a land use ordinance amendment
application are identified by chapter 10 of the administrative manual.
   B.   In considering a land use ordinance amendment application, the
commission in formulating a recommendation, and the BOCC in deciding a land use
ordinance amendment application shall consider the following factors, among
others:
      1.   Consistency of the proposed amendment with the county general plan.
      2.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the well being of the
county.
      3.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the public health, welfare,
and safety.
      4.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the interests of the county,
and its residents.
      5.   The ability of the county, and other service providers, as
applicable, to provide all infrastructure, facilities, and services required by
the uses and activities allowed by the proposed amendment.
      6.   Compatibility of the proposed uses and activities with nearby and
adjoining properties.
      7.   The suitability of the properties for the uses and activities
proposed.
      8.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals,
objectives, and policies of the general plan, and listing any revisions to the
county's land use ordinances, and any other ordinances and resolutions,
required to implement the amendment. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-6-4: FINDINGS REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL:
The commission in making a recommendation, and the BOCC in deciding a land use
amendment application, shall find that all the procedural requirements and
review standards of section
10-6-3 of this chapter have been met. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-6-5: EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
The approval of a land use ordinance amendment application shall not authorize
the development of land. After the BOCC has approved a land use ordinance
amendment application, by ordinance, no development shall occur until the
required land use application approvals have been issued by a land use
authority, as applicable, consistent with the requirements of the county's land
use ordinances, and other ordinances and resolutions, as applicable. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-6-6: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the BOCC for any land use ordinance
amendment application may appeal the decision to the appeal authority, as
identified by chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-6-7: TEMPORARY LAND USE REGULATIONS:
As provided by the act, the BOCC without receiving a commission recommendation
and without holding a public hearing may adopt a temporary land use regulation
for all or a part of the unincorporated areas of the county if the BOCC makes a
finding of a compelling, countervailing public interest, or the area is
unregulated. A temporary land use regulation shall comply with all requirements
of the act, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-6-8: EFFECT OF A PENDING LAND USE ORDINANCE, OFFICIAL MAP AMENDMENT, OR
TEMPORARY LAND USE REGULATION:
   A.   An applicant is entitled to action on a land use application by the
land use authority, as applicable, in effect on the date the county planner/
zoning administrator determines the application complete and all fees have been
paid unless:
      1.   The land use authority, on the record, finds a compelling,
countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the
application; or
      2.   In the manner provided by this chapter, and before the land use
application is filed and determined to be complete by the county planner/zoning
administrator, the county has formally initiated proceedings to amend a land
use ordinance, including this title, or official map, in a manner that would
prohibit or otherwise affect the approval of the application, as submitted; or
      3.   The BOCC, as provided by section
10-6-7 of this chapter, has adopted a temporary land use regulation affecting
the application.
   B.   A land use application approval affected by a pending land use
ordinance amendment, official map amendment, or temporary land use regulation
shall be subject to the following:
      1.   The application shall not be acted upon until one hundred eighty
(180) days from the date when the pending land use ordinance amendment,
official map amendment, or temporary land use regulation was first noticed on a
commission or BOCC agenda, unless:
         a.   The applicant voluntarily agrees to amend the land use
application to conform to the requirements of the pending amendment or
temporary land use regulation; or
         b.   One hundred eighty (180) calendar days have passed since the
amendment proceedings were initiated or the adoption of the temporary land use
regulation; or
         c.   A decision concerning the proposed amendment is made sooner than
one hundred eighty (180) calendar days since the amendment proceedings were
initiated.
   C.   Upon a decision on a land use ordinance amendment or official map
amendment application by the BOCC, all decisions for any approval, permit or
license filed during the period the land use ordinance amendment or official
map amendment is pending, or thereafter, shall conform to the requirements of
the land use ordinance or official map, as amended.
   D.   A land use authority shall process an application without regard to
proceedings initiated to amend a land use ordinance or official map if:
      1.   One hundred eighty (180) calendar days have passed since the
proceedings were initiated; and
      2.   The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that would
prohibit action on the application, as submitted; or
      3.   One hundred eighty (180) calendar days have passed since the
adoption of the temporary land use regulation.
   E.   An application shall be deemed "filed" when the application is
determined complete by the county planner/zoning administrator and all fees
have been paid.
   F.   When a proposed land use ordinance amendment or official map amendment
application is pending, an application for any land use application approval,
permit, or license, as required by the land use ordinances of the county, which
may be affected by the proposed amendment, shall not be entitled to rely on the
existing land use ordinances or official map, which may be amended. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 7
PERMITTED USE APPLICATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Land Use Authorities
10-7-3: Procedures And Review Standards
10-7-4: Findings Required For Approval
10-7-5: Decision
10-7-6: Effect Of Approval
10-7-7: Appeals
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter and the administrative manual provides the minimum standards and
procedures for the review of all permitted use and permitted sign applications
and required to determine compliance with this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-7-2: LAND USE AUTHORITIES:
   A.   The county planner/zoning administrator is authorized as the land use
authority responsible to review and approve, approve with revisions, or deny
all permitted P-1 use applications and all permitted P-1 sign applications.
   B.   The commission is authorized as the land use authority responsible to
review and approve, approve with revisions, or deny all permitted P-2 use
applications and all permitted P-2 sign applications. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-7-3: PROCEDURES AND REVIEW STANDARDS:
   A.   The procedures for the review of a permitted P-1 use application, and a
permitted P-1 sign application, are identified by chapter 4 of the
administrative manual.
   B.   The procedures for the review of a permitted P-2 use application, and a
permitted P-2 sign application, are identified by chapter 4 of the
administrative manual.
   C.   The county planner/zoning administrator for permitted P-1 use
applications and permitted P-1 sign applications, and the commission for
permitted P-2 use applications and permitted P-2 sign applications, shall
review the application and shall determine:
      1.   The proposed use is a permitted P-1 use or a permitted P-2 use
within the zoning district as identified in section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses.
      2.   The proposed sign is a permitted P-1 sign or a permitted P-2 sign
within the zoning district, as identified by chapter 9 of this title.
      3.   The proposed use or sign complies with all requirements of the
zoning district, including all minimum area, setbacks, height, and all other
requirements as applicable.
      4.   The proposed use or sign will be conducted in compliance with the
requirements of this title, all other applicable land use ordinances, and all
applicable federal, state, or local requirements and regulations.
      5.   The property on which the use or sign is proposed is of adequate
size to permit the conduct of the use or sign in a manner that will not be
detrimental to adjoining and surrounding properties.
      6.   The proposed use or sign complies with all site plan and building
requirements, as provided and required by this title, all other applicable land
use ordinances, and all applicable federal, state, or local requirements and
regulations.
      7.   The proposed use or sign complies with all applicable dedication
requirements of the county and provides the necessary infrastructure, as
required.
      8.   Such use or sign will not be detrimental to the health, general
welfare and safety of persons or injurious to property or improvements of the
immediate area or the county as a whole. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-7-4: FINDINGS REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL:
In deciding a permitted use or permitted sign application the county planner/
zoning administrator for permitted P-1 use and permitted P-1 sign applications,
and the commission for permitted P-2 use and permitted P-2 sign applications
shall find that the procedural requirements and review standards of section
10-7-3 of this chapter have been met. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-7-5: DECISION:
   A.   If the permitted use or sign application complies with all the
requirements of this title, all other applicable ordinances and resolutions,
and the building codes as adopted, the county planner/zoning administrator for
permitted P-1 use or permitted P-1 sign applications, and the commission for
permitted P-2 use or permitted P-2 sign applications shall approve the
application, with or without revisions and requirements determined necessary
for compliance to all requirements.
   B.   If the permitted use or sign application does not comply with the
requirements of this title, all other applicable ordinances and resolutions,
and the building codes as adopted, the county planner/zoning administrator for
permitted P-1 use or permitted P-1 sign applications and the commission for
permitted P-2 use or permitted P-2 sign applications shall not approve the
application, and no building permit shall be issued. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-7-6: EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Approval of a permitted P-1 use or permitted P-1 sign application by
the county planner/zoning administrator shall authorize the establishment of
the approved use or sign, subject to any revisions and requirements. Only when
the county planner/zoning administrator has approved the permitted P-1 use or
permitted P-1 sign application, and a building permit issued, as required, may
any building, activity, construction, or occupancy be commenced. Approval of a
permitted P-1 use application or a permitted P-1 sign application shall not be
deemed an approval of any other land use application, permit, or license.
   B.   Approval of a permitted P-2 use or permitted P-2 sign application by
the commission shall authorize the establishment of the approved use or sign,
subject to any revisions and requirements. Only when the commission has
approved the permitted P-2 use or permitted P-2 sign application, and a
building permit issued, as required, may any building, activity, construction,
or occupancy be commenced. Approval of a permitted P-2 use application or a
permitted P-2 sign application shall not be deemed an approval of any other
land use application, permit, or license. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-7-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the county planner/zoning
administrator for any permitted P-1 use application or permitted P-1 sign
application may appeal the decision to the appeal authority, as identified by
chapter 14 of this title.
   B.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the commission for any permitted
P-2 use application or permitted P-2 sign application may appeal the decision
to the appeal authority, as identified by chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 8
CONDITIONAL USE APPLICATIONS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Land Use Authorities
10-8-3: Procedures And Review Standards
10-8-4: Findings Required For Approval
10-8-5: Reasonable Conditions Authorized For Approval
10-8-6: Decision
10-8-7: Effect Of Approval
10-8-8: Approved Conditional Use Or Conditional Sign Permit To Be Recorded
10-8-9: Appeals
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter and the administrative manual provide the standards and procedures
for the review of all conditional use and conditional sign applications and
required to determine compliance with this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-8-2: LAND USE AUTHORITIES:
   A.   The commission is authorized as the land use authority responsible to
review and approve, approve with conditions, or deny all conditional C-1 use
applications and all conditional C-1 and C-2 sign applications.
   B.   The BOCC, following the receipt of a commission recommendation, is
authorized as the land use authority responsible to review and approve, approve
with conditions, or deny all conditional C-2 use applications. (Ord. 12-12-04,
12-4-2012)
10-8-3: PROCEDURES AND REVIEW STANDARDS:
   A.   The procedures for the review of a conditional C-1 use application and
a conditional sign application are identified by chapter 5 of the
administrative manual.
   B.   The procedures for the review on a conditional C-2 use application are
identified by chapter 5 of the administrative manual.
   C.   The commission for conditional C-1 use applications and all conditional
sign applications, and the commission in formulating a recommendation, and the
BOCC in deciding a conditional C-2 use application shall review the application
and shall determine:
      1.   The proposed use is a conditional use within the zoning district as
identified in section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses.
      2.   The proposed sign is a conditional sign within the zoning district
as identified in chapter 9 of this title.
      3.   The proposed use or sign complies with all requirements of the
zoning district, including all minimum area, setbacks, height, and all other
requirements as applicable.
      4.   The proposed use or sign will be conducted in compliance with the
requirements of this title, all other applicable land use ordinances, and all
applicable federal, state, or local requirements and regulations.
      5.   The property on which the use or sign is proposed is of adequate
size to permit the conduct of the use or sign in a manner that will not be
detrimental to adjoining and surrounding properties.
      6.   The proposed use or sign with all site plan and building
requirements, as provided and required by this title, all other applicable land
use ordinances, and all applicable federal, state, or local requirements and
regulations.
      7.   The proposed use or sign complies with all applicable dedication
requirements of the county and provides the necessary infrastructure, as
required.
      8.   Such use or sign will not, under the conditions required, be
detrimental to the health, general welfare and safety of persons or injurious
to property or improvements of the immediate area or the county as a whole.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-8-4: FINDINGS REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   The commission in deciding a conditional C-1 use or conditional sign
application shall find that the procedural requirements and review standards of
section
10-8-3 of this chapter have been met.
   B.   The commission in making a recommendation and the BOCC in deciding a
conditional C-2 use application shall find that the procedural requirements and
review standards of section
10-8-3 of this chapter have been met. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-8-5: REASONABLE CONDITIONS AUTHORIZED FOR APPROVAL:
The commission and the BOCC may impose reasonable conditions with respect to
location, construction, maintenance, operation, site planning, traffic control,
hours of operation, and other items for the approval of a conditional C-1 or C-
2 use application or conditional sign application deemed necessary by the
commission or BOCC to mitigate possible detrimental effects of the proposed use
or sign, to secure the purposes of this title, and to protect adjacent
properties and the public interest. Reasonable conditions may include:
   A.   Size, configuration, and site plan design and layout.
   B.   Site ingress and egress locations.
   C.   The provision of adequate public facilities and amenities, including
roads and streets, water, sewer, storm drainage, public safety and fire
protection, and other utilities.
   D.   The location and amount of off street parking and loading areas.
   E.   Site circulation patterns for vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   F.   Building(s) and sign(s) size and location(s), building and sign design
and features, materials, and colors.
   G.   The location and design of all site features, including the location of
proposed building(s), sign(s), lighting, and waste collection.
   H.   The provision of open space, public features, and recreational
amenities.
   I.   Fencing, screening, buffering, and landscape treatments and other
features designed to increase the attractiveness of the site and protect
adjoining property owners from adverse impacts.
   J.   Measures designed to minimize or eliminate potential nuisance factors
including, but not limited to, noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors,
gases, noxious matter, heat, glare, electromagnetic disturbances, and
radiation.
   K.   Measures designed to protect the natural features of the site,
including, but not limited to, rivers and creeks, lakes and reservoirs,
wetlands, drainageways, groundwater protection, and slopes.
   L.   The regulation of operating hours.
   M.   Identifying a time for regular review and monitoring to ensure the use
or sign continues to operate in compliance with all conditions and requirements
of approval.
   N.   Such other conditions determined reasonable and necessary by the
commission and the BOCC to allow the operation of the use or sign in compliance
with the requirements of this title, all other land use ordinances, and all
federal, state, or local regulations, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-8-6: DECISION:
   A.   If the conditional use or conditional sign application complies with
all the requirements of this title, all other applicable ordinances and
resolutions, and the building codes as adopted, the commission or BOCC, as
applicable, shall approve the application, with or without revisions,
requirements, and conditions determined necessary for compliance to all
requirements.
   B.   If the conditional use or conditional sign application does not comply
with the requirements of this title, all other applicable ordinances and
resolutions, and the building codes as adopted, the commission or BOCC, as
applicable, shall not approve the conditional use application, and no building
permit shall be issued. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-8-7: EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Approval of a conditional C-1 use or conditional sign application by
the commission shall authorize the establishment of the approved use or sign,
subject to any revisions, requirements, and conditions. Only when the
conditional C-1 use or conditional sign application has been approved by the
commission, and a building permit issued, as required, may any building,
activity, construction, or occupancy be commenced. Approval of a conditional C-
1 use or conditional sign application by the commission shall not be deemed an
approval of any other land use application, permit, or license.
   B.   Approval of a conditional C-2 use by the BOCC shall authorize the
establishment of the approved use, subject to any revisions, requirements, and
conditions. Only when the conditional C-2 use has been approved by the BOCC,
and a building permit issued, as required, may any building, activity,
construction, or occupancy be commenced. Approval of a conditional C-2 use by
the BOCC shall not be deemed an approval of any other land use application,
permit, or license. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-8-8: APPROVED CONDITIONAL USE OR CONDITIONAL SIGN PERMIT TO BE RECORDED:
Following the approval of a conditional C-1 use or conditional sign by the
commission or a conditional C-2 use by the BOCC, the county planner/zoning
administrator shall record the approved conditional use or sign permit in the
office of the Millard County recorder. The recorded conditional use or
conditional sign permit shall act as the official permit. The applicant for the
conditional use or conditional sign permit shall bear the costs of recording
the approved permit. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-8-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the commission for any
conditional C-1 use application or any conditional sign application may appeal
the decision to the appeal authority, as identified by chapter 14 of this
title.
   B.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the BOCC for any conditional C-
2 use application may appeal the decision to the appeal authority, as
identified by chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 9
SIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Property Owner Approval
10-9-3: Exempt Signs
10-9-4: Prohibited Signs
10-9-5: General Provisions
10-9-6: Building Permit Required
10-9-7: Standards Of Construction
10-9-8: Required Maintenance For All Signs
10-9-9: Valid Business License Required
10-9-10: Enforcement
10-9-11: Type Of Sign Application Required
10-9-12: Land Use Authorities For Sign Applications
10-9-13: Minimum Requirements; Findings And Standards For Approval Of Sign
Applications
10-9-14: Findings Required For Approval Of Sign Applications
10-9-15: Effect Of Approval
10-9-16: Appeals
10-9-17: Allowed Signs
10-9-18: Sign Lighting Requirements
10-9-19: Billboards
10-9-20: Noncomplying Signs
10-9-21: Unused And Abandoned Signs
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
These requirements are provided to achieve the purposes of the Millard County
general plan and to achieve the following additional purposes:
   A.   To provide for the necessary identification of activities, businesses,
sites and buildings located within the county.
   B.   To provide a convenient method of public communication without clutter
or obtrusiveness.
   C.   To avoid confusion of allowed signs with traffic signs and other
regulatory and public safety signs.
   D.   To minimize any adverse effects of signs, and associated lighting, on
adjacent properties.
   E.   To protect the natural character and amenities of the county, including
protecting views and vistas.
   F.   To protect property values. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-2: PROPERTY OWNER APPROVAL:
All signs placed on private property shall be allowed only with the
authorization of the property owner. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-3: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The signs identified in table
10-9-1, "Exempt Signs", of this section are exempt from these requirements,
provided such signs are not a prohibited sign, as provided by section
10-9-4 of this chapter.
   TABLE
10-9-1
   EXEMPT SIGNS
Sign Type Sign Requirement
Sign Type                        Sign Requirement
                                 Signs such as "Enter" and "Exit"
                                 provided:
                                    There shall be no more than 2 access
                                 A. location signs per driveway entrance
Access location signs               to a lot or parcel.
                                    No access location sign shall be
                                 B. greater than 6 square feet in area and
                                    have a height greater than 3 feet
                                    above grade.
                                 Posters and fliers announcing community
Community events posters and     events provided such posters or fliers do
announcements                    not advertise products or services not
                                 associated with the community event.
                                 A sign not exceeding a total area of 64
                                 square feet established at a location
                                 different from an activity, business, or
                                 service located in Millard County, and
                                 intended to provide direction to the
Directional sign                 activity, business, or service and
                                 meeting all requirements of section
                                 10-9-17, table
                                 10-9-2, of this chapter, as applicable,
                                 including not being located in any clear
                                 view area.
Flags                            Any flag of any nation, state, county,
                                 city, civic, or religious organization.
                                 Plaques erected for the purposes of
Historic plaques                 identifying a historic site, building, or
                                 structure.
                                 Official government notices and notices
Official notices                 posted by government officers or
                                 employees in the performance of their
                                 duties.
                                 A sign not exceeding a total area of 64
                                 square feet and allowed for a period not
                                 to exceed 12 months at the location of
                                 the activity, business, or service
On premises temporary sign       connected with the message of the sign
                                 and meeting all requirements of section
                                 10-9-17, table
                                 10-9-2, of this chapter, as applicable,
                                 including not being located in any clear
                                 view area.
                                 Political signs used to identify and for
                                 the support of candidates for national,
                                 state, county, city, school board,
                                 service district, or other public office
                                 provided such signs meet the following
                                 requirements:
                                 A. Are stationary and unlighted.
Political signs                  B. Are not erected earlier than 60 days
                                    prior to the specified voting day.
                                 C. Are removed within 7 days after the
                                    specified voting day.
                                 D. Is not located within any clear view
                                    area.
                                    Signs placed on private property are
                                 E. permitted only with the permission of
                                    the property owner.
                                 Signs required for safety or
Public necessity signs           instructional purposes, installed, and
                                 maintained by Millard County, or other
                                 federal or state agency.
                                 Signs posted by a property owner and
Public notice signs              designed to advise the public of "No
                                 Trespassing", "No Fishing", and/or "No
                                 Hunting" is permitted by the owner.
                                 A "small on premises sign" and meeting
                                 all requirements for such signs and
                                 advertising real property for sale, lease
                                 or rent within Millard County and meeting
                                 the following requirements:
                                 A. A maximum of 1 real estate sign per
                                    street frontage.
                                    Is placed on the property that is for
                                 B. sale, lease, or rent, or adjacent
Real estate signs                   thereto.
                                 C. Such signs are stationary.
                                    Signs must be professionally prepared,
                                 D. neat in appearance, and well
                                    maintained.
                                 E. Are removed within 30 days from the
                                    date of sale, lease, or rental.
                                    Is not located within any clear view
                                 F. area or placed where it creates a
                                    safety hazard.
Religious symbols                Any religious symbol attached to a place
                                 of religious worship.
                                 1 nameplate sign showing the name of the
                                 occupant of a dwelling, the address of
Residential nameplates, street   the dwelling or the name and nature of
address or combination           the home occupation conducted within the
                                 dwelling. The sign shall not exceed 2
                                 square feet in area.
Restaurant menu boxes            Restaurant menu boxes of up to 30 square
                                 feet for displaying menus.
Road and street address numbers  Street address numbers no higher than 12
                                 inches.
                                 Decorations or displays, when such are
                                 clearly incidental to, and are
                                 customarily or commonly associated with,
Seasonal decorations             any national, local or religious
                                 celebration provided that such
                                 decorations or displays are maintained in
                                 an attractive condition and do not
                                 constitute a fire hazard.
                                 Signs required or specifically authorized
Signs authorized by law          for a public purpose by any law, statute,
                                 or ordinance, including traffic control
                                 signs.
                                 Pieces of art, monuments, statuary,
                                 sculpture, water features, fountains, and
                                 other similar features, not containing
Site and building features       any corporate advertising, logo,
                                 insignia, or other symbol, and used to
                                 identify or distinguish a site or
                                 building.
                                 A "small on premises sign" and meeting
                                 all requirements for such signs and
                                 identifying a site development or a
                                 subdivision and typically located at the
                                 entrance of such site or subdivision
                                 project and provided such signs and
                                 meeting the following requirements:
                                    Not more than 1 sign for each entrance
                                    to the site or subdivision, indicating
Site development and subdivision A. only the name, symbol, logo, or other
identification signs                graphic identification of the site or
                                    subdivision.
                                 B. Such signs are stationary and
                                    unlighted.
                                    Signs must be professionally prepared,
                                 C. neat in appearance, and well
                                    maintained.
                                    Are removed when the project is
                                 D. completed or all lots or units are
                                    sold.
                                 A sign not exceeding a total area of 64
                                 square feet established at the location
                                 of the activity, business, or service
                                 connected with the message of the sign
Small on premises sign           and meeting all requirements of section
                                 10-9-17, table
                                 10-9-2, of this chapter, as applicable,
                                 including not being located in any clear
                                 view area.
                                 Electronic message signs that change copy
                                 electronically identifying the "time,
Time and date signs              date, and temperature" only provided no
                                 electronic message sign shall exceed 40
                                 percent of the maximum sign face area.
                                 Signs displayed on motor vehicles or
                                 trailers being operated in the normal
Vehicle signs                    course of business, such signs indicating
                                 the name of the owner or business if the
                                 primary purpose of such vehicles is not
                                 for the display of signs.
                                 Temporary or permanent signs erected by a
Warning signs                    government agency, utility companies, or
                                 a construction company to warn of danger,
                                 or hazardous conditions.
                                 A sign affixed or attached to a window
                                 and visible from outside of the building.
                                 All window signs shall be no larger than
                                 the window with which the sign is
Window signs                     associated. No window sign shall project
                                 beyond the exterior surface of the
                                 window. All window sign lighting sources
                                 shall be fully shielded and no lighting
                                 source shall be exposed or visible from
                                 any road, street, or adjacent property.
 
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
All signs allowed within the county are identified in section
10-9-3, table
10-9-1, "Exempt Signs" or section
10-9-17, table
10-9-2, "Allowed Signs", of this chapter. All other signs are hereby declared
to be prohibited signs within the county including, but not limited to, the
following signs:
   A.   All directional and off premises signs larger than sixty four (64)
square feet and designed or intended to direct attention to a business,
product, or service that is not provided, sold, offered, or existing on the
property where the sign is located, including billboards. (See section
10-9-19 of this chapter for provisions relating to billboards existing on the
effective date in section
10-9-19 of this chapter.)
   B.   All on premises signs larger than sixty four (64) square feet and
established in violation of these requirements.
   C.   All signs having intermittent or flashing illumination, animated or
moving parts, rotating or simulating movement by any means of fluttering,
spinning or reflection devices or that emit sound.
   D.   Signs placed on private property without the approval of the property
owner.
   E.   Signs on any county owned property, except for signs maintained by the
county.
   F.   All banners, pennants, streamers, balloons, searchlights, strobe
lights, beacons, and inflatable signs, objects, and characters.
   G.   Portable signs that can be moved from place to place and not
permanently affixed to the ground or building.
   H.   All signs erected, moved, reconstructed, enlarged, or structurally
altered without receiving the necessary sign approval.
   I.   All signs constituting a hazard to the public health, welfare, or
safety.
   J.   All roof mounted signs.
   K.   Any sign, statement, symbol or picture of an obscene nature. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   No sign shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, enlarged, or
structurally altered except in compliance with the requirements of this title.
   B.   This chapter shall apply to all signs, but does not apply to any exempt
signs and signs located within the interior of any buildings or structures, or
handheld placards and other similar devices traditionally used for public
protest and the noncommercial exercise of free speech.
   C.   No sign shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, enlarged, or
structurally altered unless a valid permit application has been approved by the
land use authority, as applicable, and a valid building permit has been issued
by the building official, as applicable.
   D.   No part of any sign shall be allowed within five feet (5') of any road
or street right of way or utility easement and all signs must maintain
necessary clearances from underground or overhead utility transmission lines.
   E.   No sign, or part thereof, shall be allowed in a manner that any portion
of its surface or support(s) will interfere with the free use of fire
protection appliances; including hydrants, standpipes, automatic fire sprinkler
connections, and similar fire protection and suppression equipment. No sign or
sign structure shall obstruct any fire lane.
   F.   No portion of any sign shall be allowed to be located in any clear view
area, and no portion of any sign shall be permitted that creates any traffic
hazard. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-6: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   In compliance with the county building code, as adopted, and as
applicable, no sign shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, enlarged, or
structurally altered unless a valid building permit application has been
approved by the building official, as applicable.
   B.   The requirement for a building permit shall apply to all new signs and
existing signs that are proposed to be erected, moved, reconstructed, enlarged,
or structurally altered, unless allowed as a limited sign.
   C.   The building official, or designee, shall inspect any sign for which a
building permit has been issued and for which an inspection is required. Such
inspections shall ensure that all signs are in conformance with this chapter
and building code, as adopted. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-7: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
All signs shall comply with this chapter and the building code, as adopted, and
as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-8: REQUIRED MAINTENANCE FOR ALL SIGNS:
All signs shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair and
condition. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-9: VALID BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
All businesses and services advertised on any sign located within Millard
County shall maintain all necessary approvals, licenses and permits, including
a valid Millard County business license, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-9-10: ENFORCEMENT:
A sign determined to be a hazard to the public health or safety, or determined
to be a nuisance because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, or be a
violation of this chapter or building code shall be remedied and corrected upon
notice by the county planner/zoning administrator or building official. A sign
not remedied or corrected within thirty (30) calendar days written notice by
the county planner/zoning administrator or building official shall be subject
to removal by the county, or other remedies that may be available to the county
under the law. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-11: TYPE OF SIGN APPLICATION REQUIRED:
The type of land use application required to erect, reconstruct, enlarge, or
structurally alter a sign associated with a proposed or existing use or
activity shall be as identified by section
10-9-17, table
10-9-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-12: LAND USE AUTHORITIES FOR SIGN APPLICATIONS:
   A.   The county planner/zoning administrator is authorized as the land use
authority for permitted P-1 sign applications.
   B.   The commission is authorized as the land use authority for permitted P-
2 sign applications and all conditional sign applications. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-
4-2012)
10-9-13: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS; FINDINGS AND STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF SIGN
APPLICATIONS:
   A.   The procedures for the review of a permitted P-1 sign application are
as provided and identified for a permitted P-1 use application.
   B.   The procedures for the review of a permitted P-2 sign application are
as provided and identified for a permitted P-2 use application.
   C.   The procedures for the review of a conditional sign application shall
be identical to those required for a conditional C-1 use application.
   D.   The county planner/zoning administrator for permitted P-1 sign
applications, the commission for permitted P-2 sign applications and all
conditional sign applications shall review the application and shall determine:
      1.   The proposed sign is a permitted P-1 sign, a permitted P-2 sign, or
a conditional sign within the zoning district.
      2.   The proposed sign complies with all requirements of this title,
including the minimum area, setbacks, height, and all other requirements as
applicable.
      3.   The proposed sign complies with all building code requirements, as
applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-14: FINDINGS REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL OF SIGN APPLICATIONS:
   A.   If a permitted P-1 sign application or permitted P-2 sign application
complies with all the requirements of this title, the building codes, and all
other applicable ordinances and resolutions, as adopted, the county planner/
zoning administrator for permitted P-1 sign applications and the commission for
permitted P-2 sign applications shall approve the application, with or without
revisions and requirements necessary for compliance to the requirements of this
title.
   B.   If a conditional sign application complies with all the requirements of
this title, the building codes, and all other applicable ordinances and
resolutions, as adopted, the commission shall approve the application, with or
without revisions, requirements and reasonable conditions necessary for
compliance to the requirements of this title.
   C.   If any sign application does not comply with the requirements of this
title, the building codes, or any other applicable land use ordinance, as
adopted, the land use authority, as applicable, shall not approve the
application, and no building permit shall be issued. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-15: EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
Approval of a sign application shall authorize the establishment of the
approved sign, subject to any and all revisions, requirements and reasonable
conditions determined necessary to comply with all land use ordinances of the
county. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-16: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the county planner/zoning
administrator for any permitted P-1 sign application may appeal the decision to
the appeal authority, as provided by chapter 14 of this title.
   B.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the commission for any permitted
P-2 sign application may appeal the decision to the appeal authority, as
provided by chapter 14 of this title.
   C.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the commission for any
conditional sign application may appeal the decision to the appeal authority,
as provided by chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-17: ALLOWED SIGNS:
All signs allowed within Millard County are identified in table
10-9-2 of this section.
   TABLE
10-9-2
   ALLOWED SIGNS
            Sign Types
Sign        Signs Requiring Approval                            Exempt Signs
Requirement On Premises  On Premises          On       On       Small On
            Freestanding FreestandingMonument Premises Premises Premises FreestandingDirectional Temporary
            Pylon                             Wall     Canopy   Sign
             Sign Types
Sign         Signs Requiring Approval                                      Exempt Signs
Requirement  On Premises  On Premises          On Premises  On Premises    Small On
             Freestanding FreestandingMonument Wall         Canopy         Premises     FreestandingDirectional Temporary
             Pylon                                                         Sign
                                               A sign
                                               displayed or
                                               attached
                                               against the
                                               wall of a    A sign
             A sign                            building,    attached to,
             attached to                       where the    or included in                                      A sign
             the ground                        exposed face the                                                 allowed for
             or a                              of the sign  construction   A sign                               a limited
             foundation   A sign constructed   is parallel  of a canopy,   permitted                            period, not
             with a pole, and attached         to the wall  which may be   only at the  A sign provided at a    to exceed 12
             or poles,    directly to the      and extends  located over a location of  separate and different  months and
             and only     ground by a          not more     fuel island or the          location from an        only
             permitted at foundation and only  than 12"     drive-through  activity,    activity, business, or  permitted at
Definition   the location permitted at the     horizontally and only       business, or service located in the  the location
             of the       location of the      from the     permitted at   service      county, and intended to of the
             activity,    activity, business,  face of the  the location   connected    provide direction to    activity,
             business, or or service connected wall and     of the         with the     the activity, business, business, or
             service      with the message of  only         activity,      message of   or service              service
             connected    the sign             permitted at business, or   the sign                             connected
             with the                          the location service                                             with the
             message of                        of the       connected with                                      message of
             the sign                          activity,    the message of                                      the sign
                                               business, or the sign
                                               service
                                               connected
                                               with the
                                               message of
                                               the sign
             Conditional                       Permitted P-
             C-1 sign in                       2 sign in    Permitted P-   Allowed in                           Allowed in
             the highway  Conditional C-1 sign the highway  1 sign in the  all zones                            all zones
             commercial   in the highway       commercial   highway        without land Allowed in all zones    without land
             district     commercial district  district     commercial     use          without land use        use
Zoning       (HC), light  (HC), light          (HC), light  district (HC), authority    authority approval      authority
districts    industrial   industrial district  industrial   light          approval     provided all standards  approval
allowed      district     (LI) and heavy       district     industrial     provided all and requirements are    provided all
             (LI) and     industrial district  (LI) and     district (LI)  standards    met                     standards
             heavy        (HI)                 heavy        and heavy      and                                  and
             industrial                        industrial   industrial     requirements                         requirements
             district                          district     district (HI)  are met                              are met
             (HI)                              (HI)
             Reviewed and                      Reviewed and Reviewed and
             approved or  Reviewed and         approved or  approved or
Land use     denied by    approved or denied   denied by    denied by the                                      
authority    the          by the commission    the          county
             commission                        commission   planner/zoning
                                                            administrator
                                               1 wall sign
                                               for each
                                               building
                                               wall that    1 canopy sign
                                               faces        for each
                                               directly     canopy side
                                               toward a     that faces
                                               public road  directly
                                               or street    toward a
                                               with a       public road or
             1                                 maximum of 2 street with a
             freestanding                      wall signs   maximum of 2
             pylon sign   1 freestanding       for each     canopy signs   1 small on                           1 temporary
Number of    for each lot monument sign for    building or  for each       premises     1 freestanding          sign for
signs        or parcel    each lot or parcel   structure,   canopy, which  sign for     directional sign for    each lot or
allowed      that         that includes any    which        includes any   each lot or  each lot or parcel      parcel
             includes any exempt sign          includes any exempt sign.   parcel
             exempt sign                       exempt sign. No canopy sign
                                               No wall sign shall be
                                               shall be     permitted that
                                               permitted on does not face
                                               any building directly
                                               facade that  toward a
                                               does not     public road or
                                               face         street
                                               directly
                                               toward a
                                               public road
                                               or street
             As approved
             by the                                                        No part                              No part
             commission.                                                   within 5' of                         within 5' of
             No part                                                       any road or                          any road or
             within 5' of                                                  street right                         street right
             any road or                                                   of way,                              of way,
             street right                                                  property                             property
             of way,      As approved by the                               line, or                             line, or
             property     commission. No part                              utility                              utility
             line, or     within 5' of any                                 easement and No part within 5' of    easement and
             utility      road or street right              As approved by must         any road or street      must
             easement and of way, property     As approved  the county     maintain     right of way, property  maintain
             must         line, or utility     by the       planner/       necessary    line, or utility        necessary
             maintain     easement and must    commission.  zoning         clearances   easement and must       clearances
Sign         necessary    maintain necessary   No wall sign administrator. from         maintain necessary      from
location     clearances   clearances from      shall        All canopy     underground  clearances from         underground
             from         underground or       project      signs shall be or overhead  underground or overhead or overhead
             underground  overhead power       above the    attached or    power        power transmission      power
             or overhead  transmission lines,  wall surface painted flat   transmission lines, as required by   transmission
             power        as required by the                against the    lines, as    the electrical power    lines, as
             transmission electrical power                  canopy         required by  provider. Must maintain required by
             lines, as    provider. Must                                   the          clear view requirements the
             required by  maintain clear view                              electrical                           electrical
             the          requirements                                     power                                power
             electrical                                                    provider.                            provider.
             power                                                         Must                                 Must
             provider.                                                     maintain                             maintain
             Must                                                          clear view                           clear view
             maintain                                                      requirements                         requirements
             clear view
             requirements
             As provided  As provided by table As provided  40% of the
Maximum sign by table     10-9-4 of this       by table     total area of  64 sq. ft.   64 sq. ft.              64 sq. ft.
area2        10-9-3 of    section              10-9-5 of    the canopy
             this section                      this section
                                               No higher
             25' above                         than the                    15' above                            15' above
             natural or   8' above natural or  eave line or                natural or   15' above natural or    natural or
Maximum      finished     finished grade,      top of the   No higher than finished     finished grade,         finished
height1      grade,       whichever is higher  parapet wall the canopy     grade,       whichever is higher     grade,
             whichever is                      of the                      whichever is                         whichever is
             higher                            building or                 higher                               higher
                                               structure
Lighting     See section
requirements 10-9-18 of this chapter
Clear view   No sign shall be permitted to be located in any clear view area and no sign shall be permitted that creates any
area         traffic or pedestrian hazard
Fire         No sign or sign structure shall be permitted in a manner that any portion of its surface or supports will
suppression  interfere with free use of all fire appliances; including hydrants, standpipes, automatic fire sprinkler
access       connections, and similar fire protection and suppression equipment. No sign or sign structure shall obstruct
             any fire lane
Building     A valid building permit approval may be necessary, as required by the adopted building code. All signs for
permit       which a building permit is required, including necessary footings, structural permits, or electrical permits,
required     shall comply with the requirements of the building code, as adopted, and shall be subject to inspection
Sign         A sign is authorized and valid only for the approved location
validity
Valid
business     All businesses and services advertised shall maintain necessary licenses and permits, as may be required by
license      state of Utah and the county's business licensing requirements, as applicable
required
Sign         All signs shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair
maintenance
             Any sign determined to be a hazard to the public health, welfare, or safety, or determined to be a nuisance
             because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, or building code violation shall be remedied upon notice by
Enforcement  the county planner/zoning administrator or building official. Any sign not remedied within 30 days' notice by
             the county planner/zoning administrator or building official, shall be subject to removal by the county, or
             other remedies that may be available to the county
 
Notes:
    1.    Maximum Sign Height: The height from the highest point of the
structure to the lowest point of the finished or natural grade, immediately
adjacent to the structure. No ground shall be bermed, or other earthwork
provided, that would have the effect to exceed the maximum allowed sign
structure height.
    2.    Maximum Sign Area: The area of the sign calculated by multiplying the
highest point of the sign by the longest length of the sign and including all
text, insignia, logo, or other advertising or identification materials.
   TABLE
10-9-3
   MAXIMUM ALLOWED SIZE OF FREESTANDING PYLON SIGNS
Lot Frontage (Feet) Maximum Pylon Sign Area (Square Feet)
Lot Frontage (Feet) Maximum Pylon Sign Area (Square Feet)
   <140          80
   140 - 179     90
   180 - 199     100
   200 - 219     110
   220 - 239     120
   240 - 259     140
   260 and greate140
 
   TABLE
10-9-4
   MAXIMUM ALLOWED SIZE OF FREESTANDING MONUMENT SIGNS
Lot Frontage (Feet) Maximum Monument Sign Area (Square Feet)
Lot Frontage (Feet) Maximum Monument Sign Area (Square Feet)
   <140          80
   140 - 179     90
   180 - 199     100
   200 - 219     110
   220 - 239     120
   240 - 259     130
   260 and greate140
 
   TABLE
10-9-5
   MAXIMUM ALLOWED SIZE OF WALL SIGNS
Wall Area (Square Feet) Maximum Wall Sign Area (Square Feet)
Wall Area (Square Feet) Maximum Wall Sign Area (Square Feet)
   <140              80
   140 - 179         90
   180 - 199         100
   200 - 219         110
   220 - 239         120
   240 - 259         130
   260 and greater   140
 
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-18: SIGN LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   As provided by section
10-9-4 of this chapter, no sign shall have intermittent or flashing
illumination, animated or moving parts, rotating or simulating movement by any
means of fluttering, spinning or reflection devices or that emits sound.
   B.   In addition to the sign requirements provided in section
10-9-17, table
10-9-2 of this chapter, the following sign lighting requirements are provided
to achieve the purposes of this title:
      1.   Externally illuminated signs are permitted as follows:
         a.   All externally lit signs shall be illuminated with steady, fully
shielded light sources aimed directly onto the sign.
         b.   No fixture used to illuminate signs shall be directed toward any
adjacent properties.
         c.   All light sources shall be fully shielded or hooded.
      2.   Internally illuminated signs are permitted as follows:
         a.   Individual backlit letters that are silhouetted against an
illuminated wall.
         b.   Individual letters with translucent faces, containing lighting
elements inside each letter.
         c.   Metal faced box signs with cutout letters and soft glow
fluorescent tubes.
      3.   Changeable copy signs and electronic message centers may be
installed as a part of an allowed sign but shall not exceed forty percent (40%)
of the total sign face area. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-19: BILLBOARDS:
Decisions and actions related to a billboard, legally established and existing
in the unincorporated area of the county on January 1, 2003, shall comply with
the applicable requirements of the act, as amended. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-20: NONCOMPLYING SIGNS:
All signs allowed within the county shall comply with this chapter and section
10-9-2, table
10-9-1, or section
10-9-17, table
10-9-2 of this chapter, unless such signs are determined to be a legal
noncomplying structure. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-9-21: UNUSED AND ABANDONED SIGNS:
A sign shall be considered unused or abandoned and shall be removed after the
use, activity, product, business, or service, which it advertised, has ceased
or has vacated the building, structure, lot or parcel for a period not less
than one calendar year. All unused or abandoned signs shall be removed by the
property owner, upon written notice by the county planner/zoning administrator
and shall be subject to removal by the county, if not removed by the property
owner within thirty (30) calendar days of notice by the county planner/zoning
administrator or other remedies that may be available to the county. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 10
RESERVED
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 11
VARIANCE APPLICATIONS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Land Use Authority
10-11-3: Procedures And Review Standards
10-11-4: Findings Required For Approval
10-11-5: Decision
10-11-6: Variance Requirements
10-11-7: Use Variance Prohibited
10-11-8: Effect Of Approval
10-11-9: Appeals
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter and the administrative manual provide the standards and procedures
for the review of all variance applications and are required to determine
compliance with this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-11-2: LAND USE AUTHORITY:
The LUHO is authorized as the land use authority responsible to review and
approve, approve with revisions, or deny all variance applications. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-11-3: PROCEDURES AND REVIEW STANDARDS:
   A.   The procedures for the review of a variance application are identified
by chapter 11 of the administrative manual.
   B.   The LUHO shall review the application and shall determine:
      1.   Literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would cause an
unreasonable hardship for the applicant with the applicant providing sufficient
evidence demonstrating that the hardship is located on, or associated with the
subject property, for which the variance is sought, and is peculiar to the
property rather than conditions generally existing on other properties located
in the same zoning district or immediate area.
      2.   The identified hardship is not self-imposed.
      3.   The identified hardship is not economic in nature.
      4.   There exists special circumstances peculiar to the property that do
not apply to other properties in the same zoning district. The LUHO may find an
unreasonable hardship exists only if the alleged hardship is located on, or
associated with, the property for which the variance is sought and comes from
circumstances peculiar to the property, not from conditions that are general to
the immediate area.
      5.   The variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property
right possessed by other property in the same zoning district. The LUHO may
find that special circumstances attached to the property exist only if the
special circumstances relate to the hardship complained of and deprive the
property of privileges granted to other properties in the same zoning district.
      6.   The approval of the variance application will not be contrary to the
public interest.
      7.   The approval of the variance application will not have the effect of
nullifying in any way the intent and purpose of this title, or the county's
other land use ordinances. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-11-4: FINDINGS REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL:
In deciding a variance application the LUHO shall find that all the procedural
requirements and review standards of section
10-11-3 of this chapter have been met. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-11-5: DECISION:
   A.   If the variance application complies with all the requirements of
section
10-11-3 of this chapter the LUHO may approve the application, with or without
revisions and requirements determined necessary for compliance to the
requirements of this title.
   B.   If the variance application does not comply with all the requirements
of section
10-11-3 of this chapter the LUHO shall not approve the application. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-11-6: VARIANCE REQUIREMENTS:
In approving a variance application, the LUHO may require such revisions and
requirements that in the judgment of the LUHO are necessary to mitigate any
negative effects of approving the variance application and to secure the
purposes of this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-11-7: USE VARIANCE PROHIBITED:
The LUHO may not authorize the establishment of a use in the zoning district
that is not identified in section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-11-8: EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
The approval of a variance application shall not authorize the establishment or
extension of any use, or the development, construction, reconstruction,
alteration or moving of any building or structure, but is a prerequisite to the
preparation, filing, review, and determination of any land use application
approval that may be required by this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-11-9: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the LUHO for any variance application may
appeal the decision to the appeal authority, as identified by chapter 14 of
this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING USES, NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES, AND OTHER NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose
10-12-2: Land Use Authority
10-12-3: Procedures And Review Standards
10-12-4: Findings Required For Approval
10-12-5: Decision
10-12-6: Effect Of Approval
10-12-7: Requirements For Nonconforming Uses
10-12-8: Requirements For Noncomplying Structures
10-12-9: Termination Of A Nonconforming Use Due To Abandonment
10-12-10: Noncomplying Lots
10-12-11: Noncomplying Signs
10-12-12: Appeal
10-12-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter and the administrative manual provide standards and procedures for
determining the existence, expansion, or modification of a legal nonconforming
use, a legal noncomplying structure, or other legal nonconformity, including
noncomplying lots and signs. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-12-2: LAND USE AUTHORITY:
The LUHO is authorized as the land use authority with the responsibility to
determine the existence of any legal nonconforming use, a legal noncomplying
structure, or other legal nonconformity. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-12-3: PROCEDURES AND REVIEW STANDARDS:
   A.   The procedures for the review of a determination of legal nonconforming
use, legal noncomplying structure, or other legal nonconformity application are
identified by chapter 12 of the administrative manual.
   B.   The LUHO shall review the application and shall determine, from the
evidence presented by the applicant, who shall have the burden of proof of
establishing the existence of a legal nonconforming use, legal noncomplying
structure, lot, sign, or other legal nonconformity, as provided by the act. If
the LUHO finds that sufficient evidence is presented to clearly establish that
the use, structure, lot, sign, or other nonconformity legally existed on the
date of adoption hereof, and complied with all prior enactments of this title,
the county's other land use ordinances, including the subdivision ordinance,
the LUHO shall approve the determination of legal nonconforming use,
noncomplying structure, or other nonconformity application. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-
4-2012)
10-12-4: FINDINGS REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL:
In deciding a determination of legal nonconforming use, noncomplying structure,
or other nonconformity application the LUHO shall find that all the procedural
requirements and review standards of this chapter have been met.
   A.   Documentation and other materials have been presented, and provided
from a credible source(s), to clearly establish that the use, structure, lot,
sign, or other nonconformity legally existed prior to the date of adoption and
effective date of the county's first land use ordinances, including the zoning
ordinance and subdivision ordinance.
   B.   Documentation and other materials have been presented, and provided
from a credible source(s), to clearly establish that the use, structure, lot,
sign, or other nonconformity legally existed on the date of adoption hereof,
and complied with all prior enactments of this title, or the county's other
land use ordinances, including the zoning ordinance and subdivision ordinance.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-12-5: DECISION:
   A.   If it is determined that the nonconforming use, noncomplying structure,
or other nonconformity application complies with all the requirements of this
chapter, the LUHO shall approve the application.
   B.   If it is determined that the nonconforming use, noncomplying structure,
or other nonconformity application does not comply with all the requirements of
this chapter the LUHO shall deny the application. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-12-6: EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
   A.   A finding by the LUHO of a legal nonconforming use, noncomplying
structure, lot, sign, or other nonconformity shall not authorize the
establishment, restoration, reconstruction, extension, alteration, expansion,
or substitution of any nonconforming use, noncomplying structure, lot, sign, or
other nonconformity.
   B.   A finding by the LUHO of a legal nonconforming use, noncomplying
structure, lot, sign, or other nonconformity shall not be deemed an approval of
any application, permit, or license.
   C.   A finding by the LUHO of a legal nonconforming use, noncomplying
structure, lot, sign, or other nonconformity shall allow the filing of a land
use application for any necessary approval, permit, or license, as may be
required by the county's land use ordinances, including this title. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-12-7: REQUIREMENTS FOR NONCONFORMING USES:
Following a determination by the LUHO of the existence of a legal nonconforming
use, the use shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Continuance: The present or future property owner may continue a
nonconforming use.
   B.   Extension Through Same Building: As allowed by the act, a legal
nonconforming use may be extended through the same building, provided no
structural alteration of the building is proposed or made for the purposes of
the extension. For the purposes of this subsection, the addition of a solar
energy device to a building is not a structural alteration.
   C.   Maintenance And Repairs: Necessary maintenance and repairs may be made
to a structure housing a legal nonconforming use by following the procedures
for a land use application approval, permit, or license, including the issuance
of a building permit, for such maintenance and repairs.
   D.   Termination: The county may require the termination of a legal
nonconforming use by providing a formula establishing a reasonable time period
during which the owner can recover or amortize the amount of investment in the
nonconforming use.
   E.   Involuntary Destruction: The county may not terminate a nonconforming
use of a structure that is involuntarily destroyed, in whole or in part, due to
fire or other calamity unless the use has been abandoned.
   F.   Deterioration Or Demolition: A nonconforming use of a structure shall
terminate if:
      1.   The structure is allowed to deteriorate to a condition that the
structure is rendered uninhabitable and is not repaired or restored within six
(6) months after written notice is provided to the property owner, by the
county planner/zoning administrator or building official, that the structure is
uninhabitable and that the nonconforming use will be lost if the structure is
not repaired or restored within six (6) months.
      2.   The property owner has voluntarily demolished a majority of the
building that houses the nonconforming use.
   G.   Change In Use: A nonconforming use may only be changed to a use allowed
in section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses, for the zoning district in
which the property is located by following the land use application approval
procedures for such new use, as required by this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-12-8: REQUIREMENTS FOR NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES:
Following a determination by the LUHO of the existence of a legal noncomplying
structure, the structure shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   The present or future property owner may continue a noncomplying
structure.
   B.   The county may not prohibit the reconstruction or restoration of a
noncomplying structure that is involuntarily destroyed, in whole or in part,
due to fire or other calamity unless the structure has been abandoned.
   C.   Necessary maintenance and repairs may be made to a legal noncomplying
structure by following the procedures for a land use application approval,
permit, or license, including the issuance of a building permit, for such
maintenance and repairs.
   D.   A noncomplying structure shall terminate if:
      1.   The structure is allowed to deteriorate to a condition that the
structure is rendered uninhabitable and is not repaired or restored within six
(6) months after written notice is provided to the property owner, by the
county planner/zoning administrator or building official, that the structure is
uninhabitable and that the noncomplying structure will be lost if the structure
is not repaired or restored within six (6) months.
      2.   The property owner has voluntarily demolished a majority of the
noncomplying structure. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-12-9: TERMINATION OF A NONCONFORMING USE DUE TO ABANDONMENT:
   A.   Any party claiming a nonconforming use has been abandoned shall have
the burden of establishing the abandonment.
   B.   Abandonment may be presumed to have occurred if:
      1.   A majority of the primary structure associated with the
nonconforming use has been voluntarily demolished without prior written
agreement with the county regarding an extension of the nonconforming use;
      2.   The use has been discontinued for a minimum period of one year; or
      3.   The primary building associated with the nonconforming use remains
vacant for a minimum period of one year.
   C.   The property owner may rebut the presumption of abandonment under this
section and shall have the burden of establishing that any claimed abandonment
under this section has not in fact occurred. The LUHO shall have authority to
review and decide all disputes relating to abandonment of structures associated
with a nonconforming use or noncomplying structures.
   D.   The county may terminate the nonconforming use status of a school
district or charter school when the property associated with the school
district or charter school use or structure ceases to be used for school
district or charter school purposes for a minimum period of one year. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-12-10: NONCOMPLYING LOTS:
   A.   A lot of record, or any parcel of record, legally existing on the
effective date hereof and the effective date of the subdivision ordinance
shall:
      1.   Be eligible for a building permit authorizing the construction of
one single-family dwelling, even though such lot or parcel may not conform to
the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located, provided:
         a.   That such lot or parcel of land is located in a zoning district
that allows single-family dwellings, and
         b.   The proposed construction can qualify for the issuance of a
building permit, as required by the building codes, as adopted. (Ord. 12-12-04,
12-4-2012)
10-12-11: NONCOMPLYING SIGNS:
This section shall apply to signs that were legal on the date of adoption
hereof, or prior enactments, but which may now be determined to be a legal
noncomplying structure.
   A.   A noncomplying sign shall not be enlarged.
   B.   A noncomplying sign shall not be moved or replaced, except to bring the
sign into compliance with this title and the county's other land use
ordinances.
   C.   The text message of a noncomplying sign may be changed if such changes
do not create any new nonconformities or other noncompliance.
   D.   A noncomplying sign shall be considered abandoned if it advertises a
business, service, commodity, or other activity that has been discontinued for
a minimum period of one year. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-12-12: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the LUHO for any determination of legal
nonconforming use, noncomplying structure, or other nonconformity application
may appeal the decision to the appeal authority, as identified by chapter 14 of
this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 13
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Required Notice To Consider General Plan Adoption And General Plan
Amendment Applications
10-13-3: Required Notice To Consider A Land Use Ordinance And Official Map
10-13-4: Required Notice For Other Public Hearings
10-13-5: Courtesy Notice For Public Hearings
10-13-6: Required Notice For Other Public Meetings
10-13-7: Required Applicant Notice; Waiver Of Requirements
10-13-8: Notice Challenge
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
As provided by the act, the county is required to provide notice of all public
hearings and public meetings. The notice requirements for public hearings and
public meetings required by the county's land use ordinances, including this
title, and the act, are provided by this chapter. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-13-2: REQUIRED NOTICE TO CONSIDER GENERAL PLAN ADOPTION AND GENERAL PLAN
AMENDMENT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Public Hearings: The county planner/zoning administrator for public
hearings by the commission and the county clerk for public hearings by the BOCC
to consider a general plan adoption or general plan amendment application shall
provide notice as follows:
      1.   Notice of date, time, and place of the public hearing at least ten
(10) calendar days before the public hearing which notice shall be:
         a.   Published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county;
         b.   Mailed to each "affected entity", as defined in the act.
         c.   Posted in at least three (3) public locations within the county;
or on the county's official website.
      2.   Notice of the date, time, and place of the public hearing shall be
mailed at least ten (10) calendar days before the public hearing to each
applicant for a general plan amendment application, as required by this title
and the act.
   B.   Public Meetings: The county planner/zoning administrator for public
meetings by the commission and the county clerk for public hearings by the BOCC
to consider a general plan adoption or general plan amendment application shall
provide notice as follows:
      1.   Notice of the date, time, and place of the public meeting, at least
twenty four (24) hours before the meeting, which notice shall be:
         a.   Submitted to a newspaper of general circulation in the county;
         b.   Posted in at least three (3) public locations within the county;
or on the county's official website.
      2.   Notice of the date, time, and place of each public meeting shall be
provided at least twenty four (24) hours before the public meeting to each
applicant for a general plan amendment application, as required by this title
and the act. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-13-3: REQUIRED NOTICE TO CONSIDER A LAND USE ORDINANCE AND OFFICIAL MAP:
   A.   Public Hearings: The county planner/zoning administrator for public
hearings by the commission and the county clerk for public hearings by the BOCC
to consider a land use ordinance, land use ordinance amendment application,
official map, or official map amendment application shall provide notice as
follows:
      1.   Notice of the date, time, and place of the public hearing at least
ten (10) calendar days before the hearing which notice shall be:
         a.   Published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
         b.   Mailed to each "affected entity" as defined by this title and the
act.
         c.   Posted in at least three (3) public locations within the county;
or on the county's official website.
      2.   Notice of the date, time, and place of each public hearing shall be
mailed at least ten (10) calendar days before the public hearing to each
applicant for a land use ordinance amendment application or official map
amendment application, as required by this title and the act.
   B.   Public Meetings: The county planner/zoning administrator for public
meetings by the commission and the county clerk for public meetings by the BOCC
to consider a land use ordinance, land use ordinance amendment application,
official map, or official map amendment application shall provide notice as
follows:
      1.   Notice of the date, time, and place of the public meeting, at least
twenty four (24) hours before the meeting, which notice shall be:
         a.   Posted in at least three (3) public locations within the county,
or on the county's official website.
      2.   Notice of the date, time, and place of each public meeting shall be
provided at least twenty four (24) hours before the public meeting to each
applicant for a land use ordinance amendment application or official map
amendment application, as required by this title and the act. (Ord. 12-12-04,
12-4-2012)
10-13-4: REQUIRED NOTICE FOR OTHER PUBLIC HEARINGS:
When required by the provisions of this title, the county planner/zoning
administrator and/or the county clerk shall provide notice of the public
hearing as follows:
   A.   Notice of the date, time, and place of each public hearing shall be at
least ten (10) calendar days before the public hearing, which shall be:
      1.   Published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
      2.   Mailed to each "affected entity" as defined by this title and the
act.
      3.   Posted in at least three (3) public locations within the county; or
on the county's official website.
   B.   Notice of the date, time, and place of each public hearing shall be
mailed at least ten (10) calendar days before the public hearing to each
applicant, as required by this title and the act. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-13-5: COURTESY NOTICE FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS:
For public hearings required by this title, the county planner/zoning
administrator and/or the county clerk may provide actual notice provided by
regular United States mail and postmarked at least ten (10) calendar days prior
to the public hearing to all owners of property located within three hundred
feet (300') of the property that is the subject of the public hearing. (Ord.
12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-13-6: REQUIRED NOTICE FOR OTHER PUBLIC MEETINGS:
When required by the provisions of this title, the county planner/zoning
administrator and/or the county clerk shall provide notice of the public
meeting as follows:
   A.   Notice of the date, time, and place of each public meeting shall be at
least twenty four (24) hours before the public meeting, which shall be:
      1.   Posted in at least three (3) public locations within the county; or
on the county's official website.
   B.   Notice of the date, time, and place of each public meeting shall be
provided at least twenty four (24) hours before the public meeting to each
applicant, as required by this title and the act. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-13-7: REQUIRED APPLICANT NOTICE; WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS:
For each land use application, the county planner/zoning administrator and/or
the county clerk shall:
   A.   Notify the applicant of the date, time, and place of each public
hearing and public meeting to consider the land use application.
   B.   Notify the applicant of any decision on the application by a land use
authority.
   C.   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
land use application at least three (3) business days before the public hearing
or public meeting.
   D.   If the county fails to comply fully with the requirements of this
section, an applicant may waive the failure so that the land use application
may stay on the public hearing or public meeting agenda and be considered as if
the requirements of this chapter had been met. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-13-8: NOTICE CHALLENGE:
Except for the courtesy notice, which is not subject to challenge, if notice
given under authority of this chapter is not challenged, as provided by the
act, within thirty (30) calendar days after the meeting or action for which
notice is given, the notice is considered adequate and proper. (Ord. 12-12-04,
12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 14
APPEAL AUTHORITIES AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose
10-14-2: Appeal Authorities
10-14-3: District Court
10-14-4: Board Of County Commissioners
10-14-5: LUHO
10-14-6: Maximum Time Allowed To File Appeal
10-14-7: Requirements For An Appeal Of A Land Use Authority Decision
10-14-8: Condition Precedent To Judicial Review; Appeal Authority Duties
10-14-9: Application Required
10-14-10: Meetings, Records, And Action Of An Appeal Authority
10-14-11: Due Process
10-14-12: Burden Of Proof
10-14-13: Standard Of Review For Appeals
10-14-14: Final Decision
10-14-15: District Court Review
10-14-1: PURPOSE:
Any person, including the applicant for any land use application approval,
license, or permit required by this title and any decision making body or
officer of the county, adversely affected by a decision of a land use authority
administering or interpreting this title may appeal the decision to the appeal
authority, as identified by this chapter. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-2: APPEAL AUTHORITIES:
To provide for appeals of decisions of land use authorities and to comply with
the act, the following appeal authorities, with their appeal responsibilities
are identified. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-3: DISTRICT COURT:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the BOCC may file a
petition with district court.
   B.   Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the LUHO may file a
petition with district court. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-4: BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the commission may file an
appeal application with the BOCC. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-5: LUHO:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the county planner/zoning
administrator, as required by this title, may file an appeal application with
the LUHO. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-6: MAXIMUM TIME ALLOWED TO FILE APPEAL:
A person, including the applicant for any land use application required by this
title and any decision making body or officer of the county, adversely affected
by a decision of a land use authority administering or interpreting this title
may, within ten (10) calendar days of the date of the decision, appeal the
decision to the appeal authority identified by this chapter, except an appeal
of a final decision by the BOCC shall be filed within thirty (30) calendar days
with the district court, as provided by section
10-14-15 of this chapter. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-7: REQUIREMENTS FOR AN APPEAL OF A LAND USE AUTHORITY DECISION:
An appeal of a land use authority's decision shall identify the alleged error
in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the land use
authority. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-8: CONDITION PRECEDENT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW; APPEAL AUTHORITY DUTIES:
   A.   As a condition precedent to judicial review, each adversely affected
person shall timely and specifically challenge a land use authority's decision,
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   An appeal authority shall:
      1.   Act in a quasi-judicial manner; and
      2.   Serve as the final arbiter of issues involving the interpretation or
application of land use ordinances; and
      3.   May not entertain an appeal of a matter in which the appeal
authority, or any participating member, had first acted as the land use
authority.
   C.   An appeal authority shall require an adversely affected party to
present every theory of relief that it can raise in district court.
   D.   An appeal authority shall not require an adversely affected party to
pursue duplicate or successive appeals before it or another appeal authority as
a condition of the adversely affected party's duty to exhaust administrative
remedies. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-9: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
An appeal of any order, requirement, decision, or determination of a land use
authority shall be made by filing an appeal application, complying with the
requirements as provided by the administrative manual. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-14-10: MEETINGS, RECORDS, AND ACTION OF AN APPEAL AUTHORITY:
Each appeal authority shall:
   A.   Notify each of its members of any meeting or hearing;
   B.   Provide each of its members with the same information and access to
county resources as any other member;
   C.   Convene only if a quorum of its members is present; and
   D.   Act only upon the vote of a majority of its convened members.
   E.   The county planner/zoning administrator, county clerk and county
attorney shall transmit to the appeal authority all materials constituting the
full record of the decision of the land use authority.
   F.   Following a written decision by the appeal authority, the county
planner/zoning administrator and/or the county clerk shall provide the
applicant with a copy of the written decision.
   G.   A record of the decisions of the appeal authority shall be maintained
in the office of the county clerk, which shall constitute the record of the
appeal. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-11: DUE PROCESS:
   A.   An appeal authority shall conduct each appeal as provided.
   B.   An appeal authority shall respect the due process rights of each of the
participants. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-12: BURDEN OF PROOF:
Any person presenting an appeal application alleging an error of a land use
authority's order, requirement, decision, or determination has the burden of
proof that the land use authority erred. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-13: STANDARD OF REVIEW FOR APPEALS:
   A.   Each appeal authority shall hear and review all appeal applications "on
the record", including the review of all factual matters. Each appeal authority
shall only consider the materials presented and originally before the land use
authority in making the decision that is the subject of the appeal.
   B.   The appeal authority shall determine the correctness of the order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the land use authority.
   C.   Only those decisions where a land use authority has applied the
requirements of this title to a particular application, person, lot, or parcel
may be appealed to an appeal authority.
   D.   An appeal application shall not be used to waive, modify, or amend any
requirement, provision, or term of this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-14-14: FINAL DECISION:
A decision of each appeal authority shall take effect on the date when the
appeal authority, as applicable, issues a written decision, which shall
constitute a final decision by the county in the matter. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-14-15: DISTRICT COURT REVIEW:
   A.   Required Time For Filing:
      1.   No person may challenge in district court a decision of a land use
authority until that person has exhausted all administrative remedies as
provided by this chapter and received a final decision from an appeal
authority.
      2.   Any person adversely affected by a final order, requirement,
decision, or determination made in the exercise of or in violation of the
provisions of this title may file a petition for review of the order,
requirement, decision, or determination with the district court within thirty
(30) calendar days after the appeal authority's decision is final.
   B.   Tolling Of Time:
      1.   The required time for filing for district court review shall be
tolled from the date the person files a request for arbitration of a
constitutional taking issue with the property rights ombudsman, as provided by
section 13-43-204 Utah Code Annotated, until thirty (30) days after:
         a.   The arbitrator issues a final award; or
         b.   The property rights ombudsman issues a written statement under
section 13-43-204(3)(b) Utah Code Annotated, declining to arbitrate or to
appoint an arbitrator.
      2.   A tolling under this section operates only as to the specific
constitutional taking issue that is the subject of the request for arbitration
filed with the property rights ombudsman by a property owner.
      3.   A request for arbitration filed with the property rights ombudsman
after the time under subsection B1 of this section to file a petition has
expired does not affect the time to file a petition.
   C.   Standards Governing Court Review:
      1.   The court shall:
         a.   Presume that a final decision made under the authority of the act
is valid; and
         b.   Determine only whether or not the final decision is arbitrary,
capricious, or illegal.
      2.   A decision, ordinance, or regulation involving the exercise of
legislative discretion is valid if the decision, ordinance, or regulation is
reasonably debatable and not illegal.
      3.   A decision of a land use authority or an appeal authority involving
the exercise of administrative discretion is valid if the decision is supported
by substantial evidence in the record and is not arbitrary, capricious, or
illegal.
      4.   A determination of illegality requires a determination that the
decision, ordinance, or regulation violates a law, statute, or ordinance in
effect at the time the decision was made or the ordinance or regulation
adopted.
      5.   The time requirements for the filing of a petition with district
court, as provided by this section apply from the date on which the land use
authority takes final action on a land use application for any adversely
affected third party, if the land use authority conformed with the notice
provisions of this title, as applicable, or for any person who had actual
notice of the pending decision.
      6.   If the county has complied with the notice requirements, as provided
by this title, a challenge to the enactment of this title or the enactment of
the Millard County general plan may not be filed with the district court more
than thirty (30) calendar days after the enactment.
      7.   A petition is barred unless it is filed within thirty (30) calendar
days after the appeal authority's decision is final.
   D.   Record On Review:
      1.   The land use authority or appeal authority, as the case may be,
shall transmit to district court the record of its proceedings, including all
minutes, findings, orders, and, if available, a true and correct transcript of
its proceedings.
      2.   If the proceeding was tape recorded, a transcript of that tape
recording is a true and correct transcript for purposes of this section.
      3.   If there is a record, the district court's review is limited to the
record provided by the land use authority or appeal authority, as the case may
be.
      4.   The district court may not accept or consider any evidence outside
the record of the land use authority or appeal authority, as the case may be,
unless that evidence was offered to the land use authority or appeal authority,
respectively, and the court determines that it was improperly excluded.
      5.   If there is no record, the court may call witnesses and take
evidence.
      6.   The filing of an appeal does not stay the decision of the land use
authority or appeal authority, as the case may be.
   E.   Staying Of Decision:
      1.   Before filing a petition under this section, or a request for
mediation or arbitration of a constitutional taking issue under section 13-43-
204 Utah Code Annotated, the aggrieved party may petition the appeal authority
to stay its decision.
      2.   Upon receipt of a petition to stay, the appeal authority may order
its decision stayed pending district court review, if the appeal authority
finds it to be in the best interest of the county.
      3.   After a petition is filed under this section, or a request for
mediation or arbitration of a constitutional taking issue is filed under
section 13-43-204 Utah Code Annotated, the petitioner may seek an injunction
staying the appeal authority's decision. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 15
RESERVED
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 16
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Zoning By Districts
10-16-2: Zoning Districts Purposes
10-16-1: ZONING BY DISTRICTS:
In accordance with the requirement of the act, that zoning within counties be
by districts, Millard County, as shown on the Millard County zoning districts
map, is divided into zoning districts that govern the use, intensity and other
requirements for the use or activities occurring on all unincorporated lands
located within the county. The map accompanying the ordinance codified herein,
the Millard County zoning districts map, is incorporated herein by this
reference as a part of this title.
To achieve the purposes of this title and the act, the following zoning
districts are provided:
Range and forest (RF) district
Agriculture 20 (AG-20) district
Agriculture (AG) district
Agricultural industrial (AI) district
Residential (R1) district
Highway commercial (HC) district
Light industrial (LI) district
Heavy industrial (HI) district
Sensitive lands (SL) overlay district (not mapped)
Airport (AO) overlay district (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-16-2: ZONING DISTRICTS PURPOSES:
The zoning districts are provided and achieve the purposes of the county
general plan and to provide that all allowed uses:
   A.   Are necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which will
contribute to the general well being of the county; and
   B.   Will be conducted in a manner so as not to be detrimental to the
health, general welfare and safety of persons or injurious to property or
improvements of the immediate area or the county as a whole. (Ord. 12-12-04,
12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 17
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL PROPERTY AND USES
SECTION:
10-17-1: Purpose
10-17-2: Consistency And Conformity To The General Plan Required
10-17-3: Public Uses To Conform To General Plan
10-17-4: Effect Of Official Maps
10-17-5: Allowed Minimum Use Of Legal Lots
10-17-6: Illegal Lots, Uses, Buildings And Structures
10-17-7: Allowed Uses
10-17-8: Prohibited Uses
10-17-9: Major Utility Corridors
10-17-10: Use Approval And Building Permit Required Prior To Any Construction
10-17-11: Applications Required
10-17-12: All Buildings Taxed As Real Property
10-17-13: Payment Of Taxes And Charges Required
10-17-14: Land Purchased, Leased, Or Otherwise Acquired From Federal Or State
Government
10-17-15: Private Uses On Federal Or State Owned Land
10-17-16: Compliance With Zoning District Requirements
10-17-17: Subdivision And Sale Of Property
10-17-18: Legal Access To All Properties Required
10-17-19: Minimum Lot Frontage Required
10-17-20: Minimum Buildable Area
10-17-21: Lot Standards; Creation Of Noncomplying Lots Prohibited
10-17-22: All Buildings Or Structures To Be On A Single Lot
10-17-23: Lots In Two Or More Zoning Districts
10-17-24: Required Yard Areas For One Building Only
10-17-25: Required Yards To Be Unobstructed; Exceptions
10-17-26: Setbacks Measured From Mapped Roads
10-17-27: Clear View Area Requirements
10-17-28: Maximum Height Of All Primary Buildings
10-17-29: Exceptions To Maximum Height Limitations
10-17-30: Adequate Public Facilities Requirements
10-17-31: Culinary Water, Sanitary Sewer And Fire Protection Requirements
10-17-32: Required Roads, Streets, Fire Protection And Other Facilities
10-17-33: Residential Dwellings
10-17-34: Guarantee Of Installation Of Improvements
10-17-35: Certificate Of Occupancy Required
10-17-36: Business License Required; Continuing Obligations
10-17-37: Tables Of Lot And Setback Requirements For Primary Buildings
10-17-38: Off Street Parking Requirements
10-17-39: Construction Subject To Geologic, Flood, Or Other Natural Hazards
10-17-40: Noxious Weeds
10-17-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of general property standards is to further the purposes of the
county general plan and the county's land use ordinances. Compliance with all
general property standards, as well as all other requirements of this title,
and all other federal, state and local requirements, as applicable, is required
for the approval of all land use applications. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-2: CONSISTENCY AND CONFORMITY TO THE GENERAL PLAN REQUIRED:
No land use application approval, license or permit, and no land use ordinance,
or amendment thereto, no map, or amendment thereto, and no official map, or
amendment thereto shall be approved unless such land use application approval,
license, permit, amendment, ordinance or map is found to be consistent and
conform to the county general plan, as adopted. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-3: PUBLIC USES TO CONFORM TO GENERAL PLAN:
As required by the act, no publicly owned road, street, way, place, space,
building, structure, or facility, and no public utility line, infrastructure,
or facility, whether publicly or privately owned, may be constructed unless:
   A.   It conforms to the county's general plan, including consistency with
the accompanying map(s); or
   B.   It has been considered by the commission and, after receiving the
recommendation of the commission, has been approved by the BOCC as an amendment
to the county's general plan.
   C.   Received necessary land use application approval by the land use
authority, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-4: EFFECT OF OFFICIAL MAPS:
   A.   As provided by the act, the county may adopt official maps.
   B.   An official map does not:
      1.   Require a landowner to dedicate and/or construct a road or street as
a condition of development approval, except under circumstances provided by
section
10-2-10 of this title, or
      2.   Require the county to immediately acquire property. (Ord. 12-12-04,
12-4-2012)
10-17-5: ALLOWED MINIMUM USE OF LEGAL LOTS:
Except for lots or parcels created as an agricultural division as provided by
the subdivision ordinance, nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent
the establishment of one single- family dwelling on any legal lot or parcel of
land, as determined by the county planner/zoning administrator, and provided
that such legal lot or parcel is located in a zoning district that permits
single-family dwellings, and any proposed construction can qualify for a
building permit, as required by the building code, as adopted. (Ord. 12-12-04,
12-4-2012)
10-17-6: ILLEGAL LOTS, USES, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
Any lot, use, building or structure that was not authorized by a prior land use
ordinance, shall remain as an illegal lot, use, building, or structure, unless
such lot, use, building, or structure is authorized and permitted as required
by this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-7: ALLOWED USES:
All allowed uses are identified in section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-8: PROHIBITED USES:
Any use not specifically provided for in section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses is declared to be a prohibited
use in the unincorporated area of Millard County. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-9: MAJOR UTILITY CORRIDORS:
   A.   The Millard County general plan provides for major utility corridors.
   B.   Any use, building, structure, or activity proposed to be located within
a major utility corridor, as defined and identified by the Millard County
general plan, as adopted, shall be reviewed and considered by the Millard
County planning commission for major utility corridor compatibility.
   C.   If such use, building, structure, or activity is determined by the
planning commission to conflict with the purpose(s) of the major utility
corridor, or to be incompatible in any way, such use, building, structure, or
activity shall be a prohibited use, building, structure or activity within the
major utility corridor.
   D.   See also subsection 10-25-1A5 of this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-10: USE APPROVAL AND BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED PRIOR TO ANY CONSTRUCTION:
No use shall be established and no construction, alteration, enlargement,
repair, or removal of any building, structure, or part thereof shall be
commenced until the approval of the required land use application, license, or
permit. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-11: APPLICATIONS REQUIRED:
All requests to establish a use, or construct, alter, enlarge, repair, or
demolish any building, structure, or part thereof shall be initiated by the
submission of necessary application(s), to the county, as required by the
county's land use ordinances, including this title, the administrative manual,
and building code, as adopted. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-12: ALL BUILDINGS TAXED AS REAL PROPERTY:
All buildings shall be taxed as real property. For a mobile home, an affidavit
shall be filed with the state tax commission, pursuant to the requirements of
the Utah Code Annotated, as amended. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-13: PAYMENT OF TAXES AND CHARGES REQUIRED:
A land use application approval and any other permit or license approval may
provide that the land use application approval, permit, or license is not valid
and no building permit shall be issued until all delinquent taxes and charges
for the property have been paid to the date of approval. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-17-14: LAND PURCHASED, LEASED, OR OTHERWISE ACQUIRED FROM FEDERAL OR STATE
GOVERNMENT:
Land purchased, leased, or otherwise acquired or obtained from any federal,
state or local agency shall comply with all provisions and requirements of this
title and the administrative manual. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-15: PRIVATE USES ON FEDERAL OR STATE OWNED LAND:
All private uses occurring on any federal or state owned lands shall comply
with all provisions and requirements of this title and the administrative
manual. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-16: COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
Every use established, and all buildings or structures erected, reconstructed,
altered, enlarged or moved shall be used, established, or constructed only as
allowed by the requirements of this title, and the county's other land use
ordinances, and the administrative manual. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-17: SUBDIVISION AND SALE OF PROPERTY:
No person shall subdivide any lands, located wholly or partially within the
unincorporated area of the county for any purpose, unless approval for such
subdivision has been received from the applicable land use authority, as
required by the county subdivision ordinance, and the administrative manual.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-18: LEGAL ACCESS TO ALL PROPERTIES REQUIRED:
To protect the property rights of all owners and to provide adequate and
convenient legal access no person shall subdivide any lands, located wholly or
partially within the unincorporated area of the county, without providing a
legal access to all adjacent properties. No land use application approval,
permit, or license shall be approved by the county that has the potential or
effect of landlocking any property(ies). (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-19: MINIMUM LOT FRONTAGE REQUIRED:
Every lot or parcel created shall have frontage upon a dedicated or publicly
approved road or street, or right of way providing direct access to a dedicated
or publicly approved road or street. The required lot frontage shall be not
less than the minimum lot width requirement as measured at the minimum front
yard setback, as required by the zoning district in which the lot is located.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-20: MINIMUM BUILDABLE AREA:
Every lot or parcel created after the effective date hereof shall have a
minimum buildable area sufficient to establish a building or structure thereon
that meets the minimum standards of the zoning district in which the lot or
parcel is located. Any area located within an easement may not be included
within any minimum buildable area unless the easement beneficiary executes and
records a release of the easement in a form acceptable to the county attorney.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-21: LOT STANDARDS; CREATION OF NONCOMPLYING LOTS PROHIBITED:
Every lot or parcel created after the effective date hereof shall comply with
the minimum lot size, frontage, width, depth, and all other requirements of
this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-22: ALL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES TO BE ON A SINGLE LOT:
All buildings or structures shall be located and maintained on a lot, as
defined, such lot meeting all requirements of this title and the county's other
land use ordinances. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-23: LOTS IN TWO OR MORE ZONING DISTRICTS:
Where a lot is located in two (2) or more zoning districts, the more
restrictive zoning district provisions shall apply. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-24: REQUIRED YARD AREAS FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
   A.   All required yard or setback areas shall be situated on the same lot as
the primary building or structure to which it is required.
   B.   No required yard or setback area for any lot or building required for
the purposes of complying with the county's land use ordinances, including this
title, shall be considered as providing the required yard or setback for any
other lot or building.
   C.   No area required to meet the lot width, area, setback, or other
requirements of this title for a lot or building may be divided, sold, or
leased separately from such lot or building. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-25: REQUIRED YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS:
All required yard or setback areas shall be open to the sky and unobstructed
and all buildings or parts thereof shall comply with the setback requirements
of the zoning district, except for permitted and approved accessory buildings,
for the projection of sills and other ornamental features. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-
4-2012)
10-17-26: SETBACKS MEASURED FROM MAPPED ROADS:
Wherever a required front yard or side yard abuts on a road or street, the
required front yard and side yard setbacks shall be measured from the mapped
road or street line provided by the official map, as adopted. (Ord. 12-12-04,
12-4-2012)
10-17-27: CLEAR VIEW AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Corner Lot: In all required setback areas, no obstruction to view in
excess of three feet (3') in height shall be placed on any corner lot within
the triangle formed by the property lines and a line connecting them at points
forty feet (40') from the intersection of the property lines.
   B.   Roads: The clear view area on roads shall be the triangle formed by the
property lines and a line connecting them at points forty feet (40') from the
intersection of the property lines.
   C.   Driveways: The clear view area for a driveway shall be the triangle
formed by the driveway lines and the property line and a line connecting them
at points twenty five feet (25') from the intersection of the driveway line and
property line.
   D.   Modification Of Clear View Area: The land use authority, as applicable,
may make a modification of the clear view areas. The land use authority is
authorized to increase or decrease the required clear view area if it is
determined that there is a valid reason to increase or decrease the required
clear view area. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-28: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF ALL PRIMARY BUILDINGS:
The maximum height of all primary buildings shall be as identified in section
10-25-2 of this title, appendix B-1, table of development standards, for the
zoning district in which the primary building is located. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-17-29: EXCEPTIONS TO MAXIMUM HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
The requirement for maximum building height shall not apply to:
   A.   Steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, wireless or television masts that are
not used for human occupancy.
   B.   Agricultural buildings provided such buildings are not used for human
occupancy. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-30: ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS:
Land shall be developed only to the extent that adequate infrastructure and
services are available, or will be available concurrent with the development
activity, and at capacities sufficient to meet the needs of the proposed
development. A land use authority may require an analysis to be completed and
provided to determine if adequate public facilities and services are available
to serve the proposed development and if such development will change the
existing levels of service, or will create a demand for services that exceeds
available capacities.
Public facilities that may be required by a land use authority to be included
in a public facilities analysis include, but are not limited to, road and
street facilities, intersection and bridge capacities, culinary water
facilities, sanitary sewer facilities, storm drainage facilities, fire
protection and suppression facilities, culinary water pressure, fire and
emergency services response times, sheriff's services, and other required
public facilities and services. A land use authority may deny or modify a
proposed development activity if the demand for public facilities and services
exceeds available capacities or require an applicant for a land use application
approval, license, or permit to provide the required facilities and services,
at the capacities required, and concurrent with the demand created by the
development activity, consistent with all applicable legal authorities. (Ord.
12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-31: CULINARY WATER, SANITARY SEWER AND FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All uses and primary buildings requiring culinary water and sanitary
sewer services shall comply with the requirements of the culinary water
authority and sanitary sewer authority, as applicable.
   B.   All uses and primary buildings shall comply with the requirements of
the fire authority, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-32: REQUIRED ROADS, STREETS, FIRE PROTECTION AND OTHER FACILITIES:
The installation of necessary roads and streets, road and street widening and
improvement(s), fire protection facilities, and other improvements and
facilities required by the county's land use ordinances shall be required as a
condition of any required land use application approval, permit, or license.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-33: RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS:
Land use and building permit applications required to establish a residential
dwelling in the unincorporated area shall execute a dated and notarized
declaration recognizing the proposed dwelling will be located in an
unincorporated area of Millard County. Such declaration, prepared by the
county, may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
   A.   A description of the general location of the property.
   B.   A legal description of the property, provided by the applicant.
   C.   The name of the applicant and recognition that the land use permit
allows the applicant to build, install, maintain, repair, replace and make
betterments to a dwelling in the unincorporated area of the county.
   D.   The identification of all necessary requirements and conditions for the
issuance of the land use permit, including a building permit.
   E.   Execution of the dated notarized declaration, signed and dated by the
property owner and with notary public attestation, complying with all accepted
standards, the applicant acknowledges:
      1.   It is acknowledged and understood that agricultural production is
limited to an area where there is availability of water and good soil.
Therefore, agricultural production is a priority use, and dwellings are an
intrusive use.
      2.   The applicant has chosen to build a residential structure in the
unincorporated area of the county, with full acknowledgment that by so doing,
there will be possible exposure to certain agricultural activities considered
by some to be nuisances such as, but not limited to, pesticide spraying, field
burning, all types of machinery operation, fertilizing, composting, dust from
both roads and fields, pollinator bees, flies, dairy operations, feedlots,
grazing, moving of livestock, various odors, and other farming operations, all
of which may happen any time of day or night. The use and enjoyment of this
property as a residential dwelling is expressly conditioned upon acceptance of
any annoyance or inconvenience that may result from agricultural practices,
activities and procedures.
      3.   The applicant has chosen to locate a dwelling accessed by county
roads as they are presently constructed and maintained, and that the county is
under no obligation or requirement to upgrade or otherwise improve the present
status of any road. Further, the applicant acknowledges that at the very least,
they will be partially responsible for the cost of any road improvements the
applicant requests.
      4.   The applicant agrees to locate and arrange all new construction and
service equipment in such a way that it will in no way interfere with the
normal operation of agricultural production in the vicinity. This shall include
the dwelling and all outbuildings, fences, power poles and lines, water lines,
ditches, roadways, etc.
      5.   The applicant agrees to locate all dwellings not less than one
thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') from an existing concentrated
animal feeding operation (CAFO) or animal feeding operation (AFO), as defined,
except for dwellings occupied by the owner and employees.
      6.   The applicant agrees to waiver and enforcement as follows:
Being aware of and acknowledging all requirements and conditions hereby
voluntarily waives and relinquishes any right, claim, or privilege arising out
of the agricultural activities on the lands in the vicinity of the dwelling.
Further, all successors in interest, shall be stopped from claiming any future
right, claim or privilege arising out of the future agricultural activities.
Millard County or a private landowner may enforce this document.
      7.   Effective date and recordation as follows:
This permit, and all requirements and conditions, shall become effective
immediately upon execution by the chairman of the Millard County Planning
Commission and the Applicant and shall be binding upon all subsequent owners
and successors until such time as the permitted dwelling is permanently removed
from the property described above. This permit shall be recorded in the Office
of the Millard County Recorder and be attached to the deed of the property
herein described and thereafter shall impart notice to all successors in
interest of the terms and provisions herein.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-34: GUARANTEE OF INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
A land use authority with responsibility to approve a required land use
application approval, license, or permit, shall guarantee the installation of
any required facilities and services by one of the methods specified as
follows:
   A.   The applicant(s) may furnish and file with the county clerk a bond with
corporate surety in an amount equal to the cost of the improvements as approved
by the county attorney and filed with the county clerk.
   B.   The applicant(s) may deposit in escrow with an escrow holder approved
by the BOCC an amount of money equal to the cost of the improvements as
approved by the county attorney and filed with the county clerk. (Ord. 12-12-
04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-35: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED:
   A.   Unless exempted by the building code(s), as adopted, no building or
structure shall be occupied, or used, until the building official has issued a
certificate of occupancy.
   B.   It is unlawful to occupy or use a building or structure until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued for such building or structure.
   C.   Failure to obtain a certificate of occupancy shall be a violation of
this title and the building code(s), as adopted. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-36: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; CONTINUING OBLIGATIONS:
All activities requiring a business license, as required by the business
license requirements of the county, including all home occupations shall be
operated in compliance with all requirements of the land use application, as
approved, and all business license requirements. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-37: TABLES OF LOT AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIMARY BUILDINGS:
Section
10-25-2 of this title, appendix B-1, table of development standards, identifies
the minimum lot size, building location requirements, and other requirements
for buildings and structures in each zoning district provided by this title.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-38: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
All uses shall meet the required off street parking requirements identified by
chapter 19 of this title. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-39: CONSTRUCTION SUBJECT TO GEOLOGIC, FLOOD, OR OTHER NATURAL HAZARDS:
To protect the public health, welfare and safety from geologic, flood, or other
natural hazards all land use applications for any approval, license, or permit
shall comply with the requirements of the sensitive lands overlay district
(SL), as applicable, and as provided by chapter 20 of this title. (Ord. 12-12-
04, 12-4-2012)
10-17-40: NOXIOUS WEEDS:
All property owners shall comply with the requirements of the "Utah noxious
weeds act", Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 18
SUPPLEMENTARY STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN USES
SECTION:
10-18-1: Purpose
10-18-2: Home Occupations
10-18-3: Childcare
10-18-4: Manufactured Homes
10-18-5: Church
10-18-6: Accessory Buildings And Accessory Uses
10-18-7: Limitations On The Size And Location Of Accessory Buildings In
Residential Zones
10-18-8: Smaller Accessory Buildings; Exemption From Building Permit
Requirements
10-18-9: Accessory Dwelling Unit For An Owner Or Employee
10-18-10: Fences And Walls
10-18-11: Bed And Breakfast Inn
10-18-12: Residential Facilities For Elderly Persons
10-18-13: Residential Facilities For Persons With A Disability
10-18-14: Residential Facilities For Persons With A Disability That Are
Substance Abuse Facilities And Located Within Five Hundred Feet Of A School
10-18-15: Therapeutic School
10-18-16: Outdoor Youth Programs
10-18-17: Prohibited Animals
10-18-18: Wireless Telecommunications Site/Facility
10-18-19: Amateur Radio Antennas
10-18-20: Sale, Distribution, And Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages And
Alcoholic Products
10-18-21: Sexually Oriented Business
10-18-22: Wind Energy Systems (Major)
10-18-23: Wind Energy Systems (Minor)
10-18-24: Animal Confinement Activities (AFO And CAFO)
10-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of supplementary standards is to further the purposes of this title
and to address the use, location, construction, and operation of particular
uses and activities. Compliance with all supplementary standards, as
applicable, as well as all other requirements of this title, and all other
federal, state, and local requirements is required for the approval of all land
use applications. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-2: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
All applications to establish a home occupation shall comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   The home occupation is clearly incidental to the use of the dwelling
unit for residential purposes and does not change the character of the
structure.
   B.   Entrance to the home occupation from outside shall be the main entrance
or the same entrance used by the residents of the dwelling unit, except when
required to be otherwise by the fire authority, board of health, or other
public agency with authority.
   C.   The physical appearance, traffic, and other activities in connection
with the home occupation are not contrary or in conflict with the purposes of
the zoning district in which the dwelling unit is located.
   D.   All activities associated with the home occupation shall be conducted
entirely within the dwelling unit and conducted by the residents of the
dwelling only and does not involve the use of any accessory buildings or
outside areas for the storage of goods or materials or the conduct of the home
occupation.
   E.   The home occupation shall maintain a valid business license. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-3: CHILDCARE:
   A.   All childcare facilities, including a "childcare, facility",
"childcare, hourly", "childcare, licensed family", and "childcare, residential
certificate" shall comply with all licensure requirements of the state of Utah
department of child and family services.
   B.   All childcare facilities, including a "childcare, facility",
"childcare, hourly", "childcare, licensed family", and "childcare, residential
certificate" shall be inspected and provide a "fire clearance" issued by the
fire authority.
   C.   All childcare facilities, including a "childcare, facility",
"childcare, hourly", "childcare, licensed family", and "childcare, residential
certificate" shall maintain a valid business license. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-18-4: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
As required by the act, and for the purposes of this section, a manufactured
home is the same as defined in section 58-56-3, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as
amended, except that the manufactured home must be attached to a permanent
foundation in accordance with plans providing for vertical loads, uplift, and
lateral forces and frost protection in compliance with the applicable building
code. All associated carports, garages, storage buildings, additions, or
alterations must be built in compliance with the applicable building code.
   A.   A manufactured home may not be excluded from any zoning district in
which a single-family residence would be permitted, provided the manufactured
home complies with all land use ordinances, building codes, and any restrictive
covenants, applicable to a single-family residence within that zoning district
or area.
   B.   The county may not:
      1.   Adopt or enforce an ordinance or regulation that treats a proposed
development that includes manufactured homes differently than one that does not
include manufactured homes; or
      2.   Reject a development plan because the development is expected to
contain manufactured homes. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-5: CHURCH:
The establishment of any "church" shall comply with all requirements of the
"Utah religious land use act". (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   All accessory buildings or accessory uses shall only be permitted
concurrently with, or following, the establishment of a primary building or
primary use.
   B.   Accessory buildings may be attached to, or detached from, the primary
building, except all accessory building(s) housing animals or fowl shall be
located, as provided by section
10-25-3 of this title, appendix B-2.
   C.   An accessory building that is attached to a primary building shall meet
all development standards for the location of the primary building.
   D.   A detached accessory building shall meet all requirements for the
location of a detached accessory building, as provided by section
10-25-3 of this title, appendix B-2.
   E.   The location of all accessory buildings, located on corner lots, shall
meet the required side yard setback, applicable in the zoning district.
   F.   No mobile home, travel trailer, or similar recreational vehicle shall
be used as an accessory building.
   G.   All accessory buildings shall comply with the requirements of the
building codes, as adopted, and as applicable.
   H.   No accessory building shall be used as a dwelling unit for human
occupancy, unless such accessory building has been approved as an accessory
dwelling unit for an owner or employee, as provided by section
10-18-9 of this chapter.
   I.   Accessory buildings shall not be rented, leased, or sold separately
from the rental, lease, or sale of the primary building located on the same
lot.
   J.   No portion of any accessory building shall be allowed to extend over
any property line.
   K.   No stormwater runoff from an accessory building shall be allowed to run
onto adjacent property. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-7: LIMITATIONS ON THE SIZE AND LOCATION OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS IN
RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
Section
10-25-3, "Appendix B-2, Development Standards For Detached Accessory Buildings
And Structures", of this title, identifies the development standards for all
detached accessory buildings. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-8: SMALLER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS; EXEMPTION FROM BUILDING PERMIT
REQUIREMENTS:
Accessory buildings with a maximum height of ten feet (10') and a maximum size
of less than one hundred twenty (120) square feet shall not require a building
permit, provided all setback requirements for the zoning district in which the
accessory building is located are met, no portion of the accessory building
extends over any property line, and no stormwater runoff from the accessory
building is allowed to run onto adjacent property. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-9: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT FOR AN OWNER OR EMPLOYEE:
   A.   An accessory dwelling unit for an owner or employee shall not be
rented, leased, or sold separately from the rental, lease, or sale of the
primary building located on the same lot.
   B.   The lot proposed for an accessory dwelling unit for an owner or
employee shall already have an existing primary structure provided, or
approved, prior to the consideration of an application to allow an accessory
dwelling unit.
   C.   An accessory dwelling unit for an owner or employee shall meet the
required setbacks for attached or detached accessory buildings and uses as
required by the zoning district in which they are located.
   D.   An accessory dwelling unit for an owner or employee shall be connected
to, and served by, the same water, sewer, electrical, and gas meters that serve
the primary building. No separate utility lines, connections, or meters shall
be allowed for an accessory dwelling unit for an owner or employee.
   E.   The construction of an accessory dwelling unit for an owner or employee
shall meet all requirements of the adopted building code, as applicable.
   F.   Mobile homes, travel trailers, boats, or similar recreational vehicles
shall not be used as an accessory dwelling unit for an owner or employee.
   G.   The land use application approval for an accessory dwelling unit for an
owner or employee shall be received before a building permit is issued.
   H.   As a condition of approval required to establish an accessory dwelling
unit for an owner or employee, the property owner shall record against the deed
of the subject property, a deed restriction, in a form approved by the county,
running in favor of the county, which shall prohibit the rental, lease or sale
of the accessory dwelling unit for an owner or employee separately from the
rental, lease or sale of the primary use or building. Proof that such deed
restriction has been recorded shall be provided to the county planner/zoning
administrator prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the
accessory dwelling unit for an owner or employee. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-10: FENCES AND WALLS:
   A.   Height:
      1.   Unless required for land use application approval no fence, wall,
hedge, or similar structure shall be erected on any required rear or side yard
to a height in excess of six feet (6'), provided that any such fence will not
result in the establishment of a hazardous condition and will comply with the
"clear view" requirements of section
10-17-27 of this title.
      2.   All fences and walls higher than six feet (6'), measured from
finished grade, shall obtain a fence permit, approved by the county planner/
zoning administrator and building official.
   B.   Quality Of Construction:
      1.   All fences and walls shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner
according to industry standards. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-11: BED AND BREAKFAST INN:
A bed and breakfast inn shall be conducted only in a single- family dwelling
and only by the owner of the dwelling that complies with the following
requirements:
   A.   The single-family dwelling proposed as a bed and breakfast inn shall
meet all applicable requirements of this title, other land use ordinances,
adopted building code, and health code, as applicable.
   B.   The fire authority shall inspect the premises and be satisfied that the
dwelling and premises comply with all applicable fire codes, as adopted.
   C.   A hard surfaced off street parking area of one parking space for each
guestroom, in addition to the parking requirements for the single-family
dwelling shall be provided.
   D.   No accessory structure, motor home, travel trailer, boat, or similar
vehicle or facility shall be used as guestrooms. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-12: RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS:
The approval of a residential facility for elderly persons is nontransferable
and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than a residential
facility for elderly persons, or if the structure fails to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   A.   A residential facility for elderly persons shall not:
      1.   Operate as a business pursuant to section 17-27a-515(1), Utah Code
Annotated, as amended.
      2.   Be considered as a business because a fee is charged for food or
actual and necessary costs of operation and maintenance of the facility
pursuant to section 17-27a-515(3), Utah Code Annotated, as amended.
      3.   Provide housing for a person being treated for alcoholism or drug
abuse pursuant to section 17-27a-516(2)(e), Utah Code Annotated, as amended.
   B.   A residential facility for elderly persons shall:
      1.   Be owned by one of the residents or by an immediate family member of
one of the residents or be a facility for which the title has been placed in
trust for a resident pursuant to section 17-27a-515(2)(a), Utah Code Annotated,
as amended.
      2.   Be consistent with any existing, applicable land use ordinance
requirements affecting the location pursuant to section 17-27a-515(2)(b), Utah
Code Annotated, as amended.
      3.   Be occupied on a twenty four (24) hour basis by eight (8) or fewer
elderly persons in a family type arrangement pursuant to section 17-27a-515(2)
(c), Utah Code Annotated, as amended.
      4.   Be capable of use as a residential facility for elderly persons
without structural or landscaping alterations that would change the structure's
residential character pursuant to section 17-27a-516(1)(c), Utah Code
Annotated, as amended.
      5.   Shall meet all land use ordinances, building code(s), and health
codes as adopted, as applicable to similar dwellings pursuant to section 17-
27a-516(2)(a), Utah Code Annotated, as amended.
      6.   Provide adequate off street parking pursuant to section 17-27a-516
(2)(b), Utah Code Annotated, as amended.
   C.   Placement in a residential facility for elderly persons shall be on a
strictly voluntary basis and not a part of, or in lieu of, confinement,
rehabilitation, or treatment in a correctional facility pursuant to section 17-
27a-516(2)(f), Utah Code Annotated, as amended.
   D.   The land use authority in reviewing an application to establish a
residential facility for elderly persons may to the extent necessary modify the
requirements of this section, if such modification is necessary to make a
reasonable accommodation to afford persons residing in such facilities equal
opportunity in the use and enjoyment of the facility. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-18-13: RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY:
   A.   Requirements Determined To Comply: The requirements of this section are
hereby found to comply with title 57, chapter 21, Utah Code Annotated Utah fair
housing act, and the federal fair housing amendments act of 1988, 42 USC
section 3601 et seq.
   B.   Applicant Required To Identify Type Of Facility:
      1.   The applicant for a land use permit to establish a residential
facility for persons with a disability, and who is either the owner or
provider, shall identify in writing, and include with the land use application,
the specific type of residential facility for persons with a disability to be
licensed by the Utah department of human services, office of licensing, under
title 62A, chapter 2 Utah Code Annotated or the Utah department of health under
title 26, chapter 21, Utah Code Annotated health care facility licensing and
inspection act.
      2.   No action by the land use authority, as applicable, shall be taken
and no application shall be scheduled for review until the applicant has
specifically identified the type of residential facility for persons with a
disability proposed to be licensed by the Utah department of human services,
office of licensing, under title 62A, chapter 2 Utah Code Annotated or the Utah
department of health under title 26, chapter 21, Utah Code Annotated health
care facility licensing and inspection act.
   C.   Land Use Authority Approval Limited: The approval of a permit or
license to operate a residential facility for persons with a disability shall
be limited to the type of residential facility for persons with a disability,
as licensed by the Utah department of human services, office of licensing under
title 62A, chapter 2 Utah Code Annotated or the Utah department of health under
title 26, chapter 21, Utah Code Annotated health care facility licensing and
inspection act.
   D.   Minimum Standards For Land Use Permit Approval:
      1.   State Law Compliance: All land use applications to establish a
residential facility for persons with a disability shall comply with all
requirements for licensure, as required by the Utah department of human
services or the Utah department of health and this section.
      2.   Physical Environment:
         a.   The residential facility for persons with a disability is
proposed to be located within a zoning district where similar residential
dwellings that are not residential facilities for persons with a disability are
allowed 1 . Such zoning districts are identified in section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses.
         b.   The proposed residential facility for persons with a disability
complies with the dispersal standards 2  provided in section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses.
         c.   As provided by R501 et seq., Utah administrative code ("UAC") as
amended, no residential facility for persons with a disability shall be
approved unless it complies with all physical facilities requirements
including:
            (1)   It is proposed in a building, or buildings, that complies, or
will comply with county land use ordinances, as adopted, and as applicable to
similar structures in the zoning district in which the residential facility for
persons with a disability is proposed, as evidenced in writing by the county
planner/zoning administrator.
            (2)   It is proposed in a building, or buildings, that complies, or
will comply, with all business license requirements, as evidenced in writing by
the county planner/zoning administrator.
            (3)   It is proposed in a building, or buildings, that complies, or
will comply with all building code(s), as adopted, and as applicable to similar
structures in which the residential facility for persons with a disability is
proposed, as evidenced in writing by the county building official.
            (4)   It is proposed in a building, or buildings, that complies, or
will comply with all state fire prevention laws and requirements, as evidenced
in writing by a representative of the state of Utah fire marshal's office.
            (5)   It is proposed in a building, or buildings, that complies, or
will comply with all state and local health codes and rules regarding
sanitation and infectious disease control, as evidenced in writing by the local
health department.
      3.   Buildings And Grounds:
         a.   The appearance and cleanliness of the building(s) and grounds
shall be adequately maintained.
         b.   Reasonable measures shall be taken to ensure a safe physical
environment for all clients and staff.
   E.   Maximum Number Of Occupants (Clients And Staff) To Be Established: Any
building, or buildings, proposed to be used as a residential facility for
persons with a disability shall be inspected or reviewed by the Millard County
building official, considering the requirements of physical environment, as
provided by UAC, as amended, and established for the type of residential
facility for persons with a disability, as identified by the applicant, as
required by subsection B of this section. Following this inspection or review,
the county building official shall determine the maximum number of occupants
(clients and staff) to be permitted for the type of residential facility for
persons with a disability. This determination shall be provided in writing to
the land use authority, as applicable, and prior to any action by the land use
authority on the land use application.
   F.   Licensed Or Certified By The State; Permitted Use Provisions To Apply:
      1.   The state of Utah department of human services, office of licensing
and department of health licenses or certifies various residential facilities.
For the purposes of this section, a residential facility for persons with a
disability licensed or certified by the state of Utah department of human
services, office of licensing or the department of health shall be a permitted
P-1 use within a zoning district where similar residential dwellings that are
not residential facilities for persons with a disability are allowed 3 .
      2.   No residential facility for persons with a disability shall be
approved by the land use authority unless and until all requirements for the
necessary license or certification have been met and the facility has received
the necessary approval from the state of Utah department of human services,
office of licensing or the state of Utah department of health; or
      3.   The land use authority shall condition an approval of a land use
application on the presentation of written evidence that the state of Utah
department of human services, office of licensing or the department of health,
as required by this section, has licensed the residential facility for persons
with a disability. Failure to provide written evidence of such license or
certification within ninety (90) days following approval to the county planner/
zoning administrator shall automatically void any approval and invalidate any
existing or pending land use permit or license.
   G.   Continued Compliance With All State Licensure Requirements:
      1.   The responsibility to license or certify programs, or owners or
providers that operate a residential facility for persons with a disability, as
well as require and monitor the provision of adequate services to clients shall
rest with the state of Utah department of human services or the state of Utah
department of health. All types of residential facilities for persons with a
disability shall maintain the necessary license or certification as required by
the Utah department of human services or the Utah department of health.
      2.   Failure to maintain a valid license or certification with the
department of human services or the department of health shall be cause for any
approval, license or permit issued by a land use authority to be automatically
terminated and be found to be void and invalid.
   H.   Approval To Operate Nontransferable:
      1.   The Utah department of human services, office of licensing and the
Utah department of health specifically issues the required license or
certification to operate the type of residential facility for persons with a
disability approved by the Utah department of human services, office of
licensing or the Utah department of health to the owner or operator of the
facility.
      2.   An approval to operate a residential facility for persons with a
disability, as authorized by this section, is nontransferable and shall only be
valid to the owner or provider identified on the application authorizing the
operation of the residential facility for persons with a disability, and as
identified as the owner or provider, licensed by the state of Utah department
of human services or the state of Utah department of health. An approval to
operate a residential facility for persons with a disability terminates if the
building, or buildings, are devoted to another use or if the facility fails to
comply with any of requirements of this section or the requirements of the Utah
department of human services or the Utah department of health.
   I.   Reasonable Accommodations: The land use authority, in reviewing an
application to establish and operate a residential facility for persons with a
disability, may to the extent necessary, modify the requirements of this
section, if such modification is necessary to make a reasonable accommodation
to afford persons residing in such facility equal opportunity in the use and
enjoyment of the facility and/or to comply with the requirements of title 57,
chapter 21, Utah Code Annotated Utah fair housing act or the federal fair
housing amendments act of 1988, 42 USC section 3601 et seq. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-
4-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 17-27a-519(2)(b), as amended.
2 2. UCA § 17-27a-519(3)(a)(i), as amended.
3 1. UCA § 17-27a-519(2)(b), as amended.
10-18-14: RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY THAT ARE
SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES AND LOCATED WITHIN FIVE HUNDRED FEET OF A SCHOOL:
With the following additions and exception to the requirements for a residence
for persons with a disability, as provided by section
10-18-13 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply to all
residences for persons with a disability that are substance abuse facilities
and proposed within five hundred feet (500') of a school:
   A.   In accordance with the rules established by the department of human
services under Utah Code Annotated title 62A et seq., licensure of programs and
facilities, shall provide:
      1.   A security plan satisfactory to the Millard County sheriff;
      2.   Twenty four (24) hour supervision for residents; and
      3.   Other twenty four (24) hour security measures.
   B.   A residential facility for persons with a disability that are substance
abuse facilities and proposed within five hundred feet (500') of a school shall
be a permitted P-2 use within the zoning districts identified by section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-15: THERAPEUTIC SCHOOL:
   A.   Land Use Authority Approval Limited: The approval of a permit or
license to operate a therapeutic school shall be limited by the standards
established by the Utah department of human services, office of licensing, and
the county.
   B.   Minimum Standards For Land Use Permit Approval:
      1.   State Law Compliance: All land use applications to establish a
therapeutic school shall comply with all requirements for licensure, as
required by the Utah department of human services and this section.
      2.   Physical Environment: A therapeutic school shall comply with the
following:
         a.   A therapeutic school shall be a conditional C-1 use within the
zoning districts identified by section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses.
         b.   The proposed therapeutic school complies with the dispersal
standards provided in section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses.
         c.   As provided by R501-14 et seq., Utah administrative code ("UAC")
as amended, no therapeutic school shall be approved unless it complies with
physical facilities requirements including, but not limited to:
            (1)   It is proposed in a building, or buildings, that complies, or
will comply with Millard County's land use ordinances, as adopted, and as
applicable to similar structures in the zoning district in which the
therapeutic school is proposed, as evidenced in writing by the county planner/
zoning administrator.
            (2)   It is proposed in a building, or buildings, that complies, or
will comply, with all business license requirements, as evidenced in writing by
the county planner/zoning administrator.
            (3)   It is proposed in a building, or buildings, that complies, or
will comply with all building code(s), as adopted, and as applicable to similar
structures in which the therapeutic school is proposed, as evidenced in writing
by the county building official.
            (4)   It is proposed in a building, or buildings, that complies, or
will comply with all state fire prevention laws and requirements, as evidenced
in writing by a representative of the state of Utah fire marshal's office.
            (5)   It is proposed in a building, or buildings, that complies, or
will comply with all state and local health codes and rules regarding
sanitation and infectious disease control, as evidenced in writing by the local
health department.
      3.   Buildings And Grounds:
         a.   The appearance and cleanliness of the building(s) and grounds
shall be adequately maintained.
         b.   The therapeutic school shall maintain on site offices.
         c.   Reasonable measures shall be taken to ensure a safe physical
environment for all clients and staff.
   C.   Maximum Number Of Occupants (Clients And Staff): Any building, or
buildings, proposed to be used as a therapeutic school shall be inspected or
reviewed by the county building official, considering the requirements of
physical environment, as provided by the UAC, as amended, and established for
therapeutic schools. Following this inspection or review the county building
official shall determine the maximum number of occupants (clients and staff) to
be permitted. This determination shall be provided in writing to the land use
authority, as applicable, and prior to any action by the land use authority.
   D.   Department Of Human Services License Required:
      1.   No therapeutic school shall be approved by the land use authority
unless and until all requirements for the necessary license or certification
have been met and the facility has received the necessary approval from the
state of Utah department of human services, office of licensing; or
      2.   The land use authority may condition an approval on the presentation
of written evidence that the state of Utah department of human services, office
of licensing has licensed the therapeutic school. Failure to provide written
evidence of such license or certification within ninety (90) days following
approval to the county planner/zoning administrator shall automatically void
any approval and invalidate any existing or pending land use permit or license.
   E.   Continued Compliance With State Licensure Requirements:
      1.   The responsibility to license programs, or owners or providers that
operate a therapeutic school, as well as require and monitor the provision of
adequate services to clients shall rest with the state of Utah department of
human services. A therapeutic school shall maintain the necessary license with
the Utah department of human services.
      2.   Failure to maintain a valid license with the department of human
services shall be cause for any approval, license or permit issued by a land
use authority to be automatically terminated and be found to be void and
invalid.
   F.   Approval To Operate Nontransferable: An approval to operate a
therapeutic school, as authorized by this section, is nontransferable and shall
only be valid to the owner or provider identified on the application
authorizing the operation of the therapeutic school, and as identified as the
owner or provider licensed by the state of Utah department of human services.
An approval to operate a therapeutic school terminates if the building, or
buildings, are devoted to another use or if the facility fails to comply with
any of the requirements of this section or the license requirements of the Utah
department of human services.
   G.   Reasonable Accommodations: The land use authority, in reviewing an
application to establish and operate a therapeutic school, may to the extent
necessary modify the requirements of this section, if such modification is
necessary to make a reasonable accommodation to afford persons residing in such
facility equal opportunity in the use and enjoyment of the facility and/or to
comply with the requirements of title 57, chapter 21, Utah Code Annotated Utah
fair housing act or the federal fair housing amendments act of 1988, 42 USC
section 3601 et seq. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-16: OUTDOOR YOUTH PROGRAMS:
   A.   Land Use Authority Approval Limited: The approval of a permit or
license to operate an outdoor youth program shall be limited, as licensed by
the Utah department of human services, office of licensing.
   B.   Minimum Standards For Land Use Permit Approval:
      1.   State Law Compliance: All land use applications to establish an
outdoor youth program, as provided by rule R501-8, outdoor youth programs, UAC,
as amended, shall comply with all requirements for licensure, as required by
the Utah department of human services and this section.
      2.   Minimum Local Requirements:
         a.   As authorized by the UAC, including R501 et seq., as amended, no
outdoor youth program shall be approved unless:
            (1)   It has been approved as a conditional C-2 use within the
zoning districts identified by section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses.
            (2)   A Millard County business license has been issued, and the
outdoor youth programs remains in compliance with all business license
requirements, as evidenced in writing by the county planner/zoning
administrator.
            (3)   The maximum group size has been reviewed and approved, as
evidenced in writing by the Millard County sheriff's office and the local
health department.
            (4)   An emergency evacuation plan has been reviewed and approved,
as evidenced in writing by the Millard County sheriff's office. Such emergency
evacuation plan shall identify all necessary arrangements with all local rescue
services for possible emergency evacuation needs, which shall be reviewed and
approved every six (6) months by the Millard County sheriff's office.
            (5)   Written evidence that a copy of each expeditionary route has
been provided to the Millard County sheriff's office, including schedule and
itinerary.
            (6)   Written evidence is provided from the property owner or
federal land managers of approval to operate the outdoor youth program on the
property(ies) at the proposed location.
            (7)   All stationary outdoor youth program camps shall be inspected
by the local health department before being occupied and on an annual basis
thereafter. A copy of the inspection shall be maintained at the site of the
camp and a copy provided to the county planner/zoning administrator. The
inspection shall require the following:
   (A) Food: Food be stored, prepared and served in a manner that is protected
from contamination.
   (B) Water Supply: The water supply shall be from a source that is accepted
by the local health authority according to UAC R392-300 "rules for recreation
camp sanitation", as amended, at the time of application and for annual renewal
of such licenses.
   (C) Sewage Disposal: Sewage shall be disposed of through a public system, or
in absence of a public system, in a manner approved by the local health
authority, according to UAC R392-300 "rules for recreation camp sanitation", as
amended.
   C.   Department Of Human Services License Required:
      1.   No outdoor youth program shall be approved by the land use authority
unless and until all requirements for the necessary license or certification
have been met and the facility has received the necessary approval from the
state of Utah department of human services, office of licensing; or
      2.   The land use authority may condition an approval on the presentation
of written evidence that the state of Utah department of human services, office
of licensing has licensed the outdoor youth program. Failure to provide written
evidence of such license or certification within ninety (90) days following
approval to the county planner/zoning administrator shall automatically void
any approval and invalidate any existing or pending land use permit or license.
   D.   Continued Compliance With State Licensure Requirements:
      1.   The responsibility to license programs, or owners or providers that
operate an outdoor youth program, as well as require and monitor the provision
of adequate services to clients shall rest with the state of Utah department of
human services. An outdoor youth program shall maintain the necessary license
with the Utah department of human services, office of licensing.
      2.   Failure to maintain a valid license with the department of human
services shall be cause for any approval, license or permit issued by a land
use authority to be automatically terminated and be found to be void and
invalid.
   E.   Approval To Operate Nontransferable:
      1.   An approval to operate an outdoor youth program, as authorized by
this section, is nontransferable and shall only be valid to the owner or
provider identified on the application authorizing the operation of the outdoor
youth program, and as identified as the owner or provider licensed by the state
of Utah department of human services, office of licensing. An approval to
operate an outdoor youth program terminates if the outdoor youth program fails
to comply with any of requirements of this section or the license requirements
of the Utah department of human services.
   F.   Reasonable Accommodations: The land use authority, in reviewing an
application to establish and operate an outdoor youth program may to the extent
necessary, modify the requirements of this section, if such modification is
necessary to make a reasonable accommodation to afford persons equal
opportunity in the use and enjoyment of the outdoor youth program. (Ord. 12-12-
04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-17: PROHIBITED ANIMALS:
No animals or fowl that are inherently or potentially dangerous shall be kept
on any lot or parcel located within the county. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-18: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SITE/FACILITY:
This section provides standards for wireless telecommunication facilities to
promote compatibility with adjoining uses to the extent permitted by the
telecommunications act of 1996, as amended.
   A.   Scope: The requirements of this section shall apply to all wireless
telecommunications facilities such as "cellular" or "PCS" (personal
communications system) communications and paging systems. This section shall
not apply to radio antennas complying with the ruling of the federal
communications commission in "amateur radio preemption, 101 FCC 2nd 952 (1985)"
or a regulation related to amateur radio service adopted under 47 CFR part 97.
   B.   Facility Types: The following types of wireless telecommunication
facilities shall be governed by this section:
      1.   Stealth design antennas.
      2.   Roof mounted antennas.
      3.   Wall mounted antennas.
      4.   Monopoles; monopoles with antennas and antenna support.
   C.   Prohibited Facility Types: Unless a facility is a wireless
telecommunication facility identified above, all other types of facilities are
determined to be prohibited facilities within the county, including the
following facilities:
      1.   Lattice Tower: A lattice tower unless otherwise required to comply
with state or federal law.
      2.   All Other Types: All other types of wireless telecommunication
facilities unless otherwise required to comply with state or federal law.
   D.   Other Laws: The requirements of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of this title or other laws,
including regulations of the federal communications commission and the federal
aviation administration.
   E.   Existing Facility Plan Required: When a carrier applies for an approval
under this section, the carrier shall submit a plan showing by location and
type of the carrier's existing and planned facilities within the county.
   F.   Screening: Any associated mechanical or electrical equipment shall be
completely screened from view, from public rights of way, on site parking areas
and adjacent properties, with a decorative screening fence, and/or landscaping.
   G.   Location: The proposed facility, including associated mechanical and
electrical equipment, shall not be located within any public right of way.
   H.   Compliance Required: The proposed facility shall conform to the
requirements of this section and other applicable federal, state, or local
laws, including regulations of the federal communications commission and the
federal aviation administration.
   I.   Permits Required: Copies of required permits from federal and state
agencies establishing compliance with applicable federal or state regulations
shall be filed with the county clerk as a part of a land use application
required to authorize the proposed facility.
   J.   Stealth Design Antennas: The following provisions shall apply to all
stealth design antennas. The intent of this section is to allow creativity in
designing a proposed facility so that it will have limited visual impact.
      1.   Stealth designs may include, but are not limited to, the use of one
or more of the following:
         a.   Screening, structure, and/or antenna design which blend with the
architecture of the existing structure upon which the antenna will be mounted;
         b.   Screening, structure, antenna and/or location design which blend
with and/or take advantage of existing vegetation and/or features of a site;
and
         c.   Color schemes that make the antenna less noticeable.
      2.   Any associated mechanical or electrical equipment shall be
completely screened from view, from public rights of way, on site parking areas
and adjacent properties, with a decorative screening fence, and/or landscaping.
      3.   The proposed facility, including associated mechanical and
electrical equipment, shall not be located within any public right of way.
      4.   The proposed facility shall conform to the requirements of this
section and other applicable federal, state, or local laws, including
regulations of the federal communications commission and the federal aviation
administration.
      5.   Copies of required permits from federal and state agencies
establishing compliance with applicable federal and state regulations shall be
maintained on file with the county clerk.
      6.   The proposed facility shall conform to applicable development
standards set forth in this section.
      7.   The land use authority shall have authority to determine whether a
proposed roof mounted or wall mounted wireless telecommunications facility
design will have limited visual impact and whether a proposed stealth design
meets the intent of this section.
   K.   Roof Mounted Antennas: The following provisions shall apply to roof
mounted antennas:
      1.   Roof mounted antennas may only be allowed if determined to be a
stealth design as set forth in this section.
      2.   The maximum height of any roof mounted antenna shall comply with the
maximum building height allowed in the zoning district in which the roof
mounted antenna is located.
      3.   The maximum number of roof mounted antennas shall be one roof
mounted antenna per building or structure.
   L.   Wall Mounted Antennas: Wall mounted antennas may only be allowed if
determined to be a stealth design as set forth in this section. The following
provisions shall apply to flush and nonflush mounted wall antennas:
      1.   Wall mounted antennas shall not:
         a.   Extend above the maximum building height allowed in the zoning
district in which the wall mounted antenna is located.
         b.   Extend more than one foot (1') horizontally from the wall
surface.
      2.   Wall mounted antennas, equipment, and the supporting structure shall
be painted to match the color of the building or structure or the background
against which they are most commonly seen.
      3.   The maximum number of wall mounted antennas shall be one wall
mounted antenna per building or structure.
      4.   All wall mounted antennas shall be approved stealth design antennas
as set forth in this section.
   M.   Monopoles And Antenna Support Structures: Monopoles with antenna
support structures shall only be allowed if determined to be a stealth design,
as set forth in this section. The following provisions shall apply to monopoles
and antenna support structures:
      1.   The maximum height of any monopole, including antennas and antenna
support structures, shall comply with the maximum building height allowed in
the zoning district in which the monopole, including antennas and antenna
support structures is located, measured from the natural grade at the base of
the monopole to the highest point of the pole, antennas, or support structures.
      2.   The location of a monopole, and its associated equipment and
facilities, shall be as follows:
         a.   All accessory equipment not located within an accessory building
shall be completely screened from view by a decorative screening fence.
         b.   All monopoles and associated equipment and facilities shall be a
stealth design, as provided by this section. The land use authority shall have
the authority and responsibility to determine whether a proposed monopole and
its associated accessory equipment and facilities will have limited visual
impact.
         c.   A monopole, and its associated equipment and facilities, shall
comply with the minimum yard setback requirements of the zoning district in
which it is located.
         d.   A monopole shall not be located within one thousand (1,000)
linear feet from another monopole.
         e.   All communication and power lines to or between any accessory
building, accessory equipment, and antenna structures, shall be located
underground.
   N.   Alternative Locations: In considering applications to locate wireless
telecommunications facilities, the land use authority shall consider whether
the location of the antenna on other existing structures in the same vicinity,
such as other towers, buildings, athletic field lights, parking lot lights,
etc., is possible without significantly affecting antenna transmission or
reception.
   O.   Nonmaintained And Abandoned Facilities; Letter Agreement: Prior to
approval of an application for a wireless telecommunication facility, the
applicant shall provide the land use authority a letter agreeing to the
requirements of this section. The letter agreement shall state that if
technology renders the facility obsolete, the facility is not maintained, the
facility is abandoned, or the facility is vacated, the carrier will provide the
county clerk with a copy of a "notice to abandon" to be filed with the federal
communications commission and will remove the facility.
   P.   Enforcement: If the county planner/zoning administrator determines that
a facility is not maintained, is abandoned, or is vacated, the county planner/
zoning administrator shall send the carrier a notice of nonmaintenance or
abandonment by certified mail. If a facility subject to the notice has not been
repaired, put into use, or removed within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt
of the notice, the county planner/zoning administrator shall send the carrier a
certified notice to remove, which shall give the carrier thirty (30) calendar
days from the receipt of the notice to remove the facility. In the event a
facility is not removed as required, the county may undertake legal proceedings
to enforce removal as set forth in this section, or other applicable ordinances
of the county. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-19: AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNAS:
As required by the act, the county may not enact or enforce an ordinance that
does not comply with the ruling of the federal communications commission in
"amateur radio preemption, 101 FCC 2nd 952 (1985)" or a regulation related to
amateur radio service adopted under 47 CFR part 97.
If the county adopts an ordinance involving the placement, screening, or height
of an amateur radio antenna based on health, safety, or aesthetic conditions,
the ordinance shall:
   A.   Reasonably accommodate amateur radio communications; and
   B.   Represent the minimal practicable regulation to accomplish the county's
purpose. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-20: SALE, DISTRIBUTION, AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND
ALCOHOLIC PRODUCTS:
All applications for a beer license, as provided by Utah law, shall comply with
the procedures and requirements of the county for the sale, distribution, and
consumption of alcoholic beverages and alcoholic products, as adopted. (Ord.
12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-21: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS:
A sexually oriented business may be authorized as a conditional C-2 use in the
zoning districts identified by section
10-25-1 of this title, table of uses, subject to the following conditions:
   A.   No sexually oriented business shall be located less than one thousand
feet (1,000') of:
      1.   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building that is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      2.   A public or private educational facility, including, but not limited
to, child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, junior colleges and
universities. "School" includes the school grounds, but does not include
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school;
      3.   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities, including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trail, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis court, pedestrian/bicycle path, wilderness area, or other similar
public land within the county;
      4.   An entertainment business that is oriented primarily toward children
or family entertainment;
      5.   Any private club or tavern; or
      6.   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, measurements shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as part of the premises where
a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the
premises of a use listed in this section. Presence of a city, county, or other
political subdivision boundary shall not be considered for purposes of
calculating and applying the distance requirements of this section.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, the distance between any two (2)
sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to the intervening structures or objects or political boundaries, from
the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
   D.   Signs for sexually oriented businesses shall be limited as follows:
      1.   No more than one exterior wall sign or awning sign shall be allowed.
      2.   No sign shall be allowed to exceed eighteen (18) square feet.
      3.   No animation shall be permitted on, or around any sign, or on the
exterior walls or roof of such premises.
      4.   No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to or
inferring the nature of the business shall be allowed on any sign. Said signs
shall contain alphanumeric copy only.
      5.   Painted wall advertising shall not be allowed.
   E.   Other than the signs specifically allowed by this section, sexually
oriented businesses shall not attach, construct, or allow to be attached or
constructed, any temporary signs, banner, light, or other device designed to
draw attention to the business location. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-22: WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (MAJOR):
This section provides the minimum standards for the placement, construction and
modification of wind energy systems (major), while promoting the safe,
effective and efficient use of such systems.
   A.   Location: A wind energy system (major) may be authorized as provided by
section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses.
   B.   Setbacks: All wind energy systems (major) shall be set back from the
nearest property line and public road right of way as approved by the land use
authority, as applicable.
   C.   Avoid Negative Impact On Adjoining Property: All wind energy systems
(major) shall be located so as to avoid creating any negative impacts or
nuisance to any adjoining use or property, as evidenced by data, information,
materials, and studies provided by the applicant, and accepted and approved by
the land use authority.
   D.   Minimum Parcel Size: No wind energy system (major) shall be established
on any parcel less than twenty (20) acres.
   E.   Height: The height of a wind energy system (major) shall be as approved
by the land use authority, as applicable.
   F.   Design Standards: A wind energy system (major) shall demonstrate that
any structures, location and siting will not result in shadow flicker, noise,
or ice throw on an adjacent property or structure, including a finding that the
wind energy system (major) can be approved complying with all requirements of
this section. In addition, the land use authority shall consider the following
when considering a land use application for a wind energy system (major):
      1.   Avian impacts.
      2.   Visual impacts, appearance and viewsheds.
      3.   Wildlife habitat areas and migration patterns.
      4.   Decommissioning, reclamation and abandonment plans.
      5.   Lighting and federal aviation administration (FAA) height
restrictions.
      6.   Fencing and security.
      7.   Noise impacts.
      8.   Shadow flicker and strobe effects.
      9.   Telecommunications interference.
      10.   Other issues and impacts, as applicable.
   G.   Safety And Access:
      1.   No tower shall have any climbing apparatus within fifteen feet (15')
of the ground. All access doors or accessways to towers and electrical
equipment shall be locked at all times.
      2.   Appropriate warning signage shall be placed on towers, electrical
equipment and wind energy system entrances.
   H.   Noise: No wind energy system (major) shall exceed sixty decibels (60
dBA) as measured at the property line or fifty decibels (50 dBA) measured at
the nearest dwelling.
   I.   Visual Appearance:
      1.   Wind energy systems (major) shall be finished in a rust resistant,
nonobtrusive finish and color that is nonreflective.
      2.   No wind energy system (major) shall be lighted unless required by
the federal aviation administration (FAA).
      3.   No advertising signs of any kind shall be permitted on any wind
energy system (major).
      4.   Appropriate screening and landscaping shall be provided to screen
all accessory structures from roads and adjacent dwellings and public
buildings.
   J.   Electrical Connections: All electrical connections and distribution
lines shall comply with all applicable codes and public utility requirements.
   K.   Communications Signal Interference: All efforts shall be made to site
wind energy systems (major) to reduce the potential for blocking or reflecting
television and other communication signals. No wind energy system (commercial)
shall cause permanent and material interference with television or other
communication signals.
   L.   Overspeed Controls: All wind energy systems (major) shall be equipped
with both manual and automatic overspeed controls.
   M.   Fire Protection: All wind energy systems (major) shall have a
defensible space for fire protection in accordance with the Utah wildland-urban
interface code.
   N.   Land Use Application: All land use applications to establish a wind
energy system (major) shall, in addition to the conditional use application
materials required herein, provide the following information:
      1.   Elevations of the proposed site to scale showing the height, design
and configuration of the wind energy system (major) and distance to all
existing structures, buildings, roads and streets, electrical lines, property
and fence lines.
      2.   Engineering drawings of the proposed wind energy system (major)
identifying:
         a.   Tower design, including its weight bearing capacity.
         b.   Foundation and anchor design and soil conditions and
specifications for the soil conditions at the site.
         c.   Specific information on the type, size, rotor material, rated
power output, performance, safety and noise characteristics of the proposed
wind energy system (major) including the name and address of the manufacturer
and model.
         d.   Emergency and normal shutdown procedures.
         e.   Electrical drawings identifying all electrical components and in
sufficient detail to establish that the installation conforms to all applicable
electrical codes. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-18-23: WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (MINOR):
This section provides the minimum standards for the placement, construction and
modification of wind energy systems (minor), as defined herein, while promoting
the safe, effective and efficient use of such systems.
   A.   Location: A wind energy system (minor) may be authorized as provided by
section
10-25-1 of this title, appendix A, table of uses.
   B.   Setbacks: All wind energy systems (minor) shall be set back from the
nearest property line, public road right of way, communication and electrical
line not less than 1.5 times its total height.
   C.   Minimum Parcel Size: No wind energy system (minor) shall be established
on any parcel or lot less than two (2) acres in size.
   D.   Avoid Negative Impact On Adjoining Property: All wind energy systems
(minor) shall be located so as to avoid creating any negative impacts or
nuisance to any adjoining use or property, as evidenced by data, information,
materials, and studies provided by the applicant, and accepted and approved by
the land use authority.
   E.   Height: For parcels and lots of two (2) acres but less than five (5)
acres, the total height shall not exceed seventy feet (70'). For properties of
five (5) acres but less than twenty (20) acres, the total height shall not
exceed one hundred feet (100'). For properties of twenty (20) acres or larger,
the total height shall not exceed one hundred twenty feet (120').
   F.   Design Standards: A wind energy system (minor) shall demonstrate that
any structures, location and siting will not result in shadow flicker, noise,
or ice throw on an adjacent property or structure, including a finding that the
wind energy system (minor) can be approved complying with all requirements of
this section. In addition, the land use authority shall consider the following
when considering a land use application for a wind energy system (minor):
      1.   Monopole Or Freestanding Design: All wind energy systems (minor)
shall be of a monopole or freestanding design without guywires.
      2.   Minimum Blade Height: The minimum height of the lowest extent of a
turbine blade shall be thirty feet (30') above natural or finished grade and
thirty feet (30') above any structure or obstacle within one hundred feet
(100') of the tower.
   G.   Safety And Access:
      1.   No tower shall have any climbing apparatus within fifteen feet (15')
of the ground. All access doors or accessways to towers and electrical
equipment shall be locked at all times.
      2.   Appropriate warning signage shall be placed on towers, electrical
equipment and wind energy system entrances.
   H.   Noise: No wind energy system (minor) shall exceed sixty decibels (60
dBA) measured at the property line or fifty decibels (50 dBA) measured at the
nearest dwelling.
   I.   Visual Appearance:
      1.   Wind energy system (minor) shall be finished in a rust resistant,
nonobtrusive finish and color that is nonreflective.
      2.   No wind energy system (minor) shall be lighted unless required by
the federal aviation administration (FAA).
      3.   No advertising signs of any kind shall be permitted.
      4.   Appropriate fencing and landscaping shall be provided to screen all
accessory structures from roads and adjacent dwellings and public buildings.
      5.   All electrical connections and distribution lines shall be
underground and comply with all applicable codes and public utility
requirements.
   J.   Interference: No wind energy system (residential) shall cause permanent
and material interference with television or other communication signals.
   K.   Overspeed Controls: All wind energy systems (minor) shall be equipped
with both manual and automatic overspeed controls.
   L.   Fire Protection: All wind energy systems (minor) shall have a
defensible space for fire protection in accordance with the Utah wildland-urban
interface code.
   M.   Land Use Application: All land use applications to establish a wind
energy system (minor) shall, in addition to the conditional use application
materials, provide the following information:
      1.   Elevations of the proposed site to scale showing the height, design
and configuration of the wind energy system (minor) and distance to all
existing structures, buildings, roads and streets, electrical lines, property
and fence lines.
      2.   Engineering drawings of the proposed wind energy system (minor)
identifying:
         a.   Tower design, including its weight bearing capacity.
         b.   Foundation and anchor design and soil conditions and
specifications for the soil conditions at the site.
         c.   Specific information on the type, size, rotor material, rated
power output, performance, safety and noise characteristics of the proposed
wind energy system (minor) including the name and address of the manufacturer
and model.
         d.   Emergency and normal shutdown procedures.
         e.   Electrical drawings identifying all electrical components and in
sufficient detail to establish that the installation conforms to all applicable
electrical codes.
         f.   Evidence that the electrical service provider has been notified
of the intent to install an interconnected electricity generator, unless the
system will not be connected to the electricity grid. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-18-24: ANIMAL CONFINEMENT ACTIVITIES (AFO AND CAFO):
This section provides standards for the establishment and operation of animal
feeding operations ("AFO"), including concentrated animal feeding operations
("CAFO"). The provisions of this section are found to implement the applicable
goals and policies of the Millard County general plan and to be consistent with
all federal and state requirements, as applicable.
   A.   Classification Of Animal Confinement Operations: For the purposes of
this section, AFOs shall be classified as follows 1 :
      1.   Level 1: Any confinement where:
         a.   Of more than ten (10) but less than three hundred (300) animal
units are kept at the same time for more than forty five (45) days out of any
calendar year; and
         b.   Does not also meet the definition of a CAFO.
      2.   Level 2: Any AFO where:
         a.   More than three hundred (300) animal units are kept at the same
time for more than forty five (45) days out of any calendar year; and
         b.   Does not also meet the definition of a CAFO.
      3.   Level 3: Any AFO meeting the definition of a CAFO, as provided by
the state of Utah or is designated by the executive secretary of the Utah
department of environmental quality - division of water quality.
   B.   Requirements, Application And Approval: The establishment and operation
of an AFO shall be subject to the following:
      1.   No level 1 AFO shall be constructed, established, or operated,
unless a use permit is issued in compliance with the provisions of this section
and section
10-25-1 of this title.
      2.   No level 2 AFO shall be constructed, established, or operated,
unless a use permit is issued in compliance with the provisions of this section
and section
10-25-1 of this title.
      3.   No level 3 AFO shall be constructed, established, or operated,
unless a use permit is issued in compliance with the provisions of this section
and section
10-25-1 of this title.
      4.   No AFO shall be constructed or established and no AFO shall be
permitted to operate, or increase the number of animals confined, without
submitting the appropriate permitted use application or conditional use permit
application and receiving the necessary permit approval from the land use
authority, as applicable.
      5.   A legally existing AFO located in a zoning district where an AFO is
not allowed by the provisions of this section, may continue as a legal
nonconforming use. Such AFO shall not increase the number of animals confined
unless the necessary conditional use permit is issued.
      6.   An illegally existing AFO shall remain an illegal use and subject to
the county's enforcement provisions.
   C.   Application Requirements: In addition to the standards and requirements
of a permitted (P) use application, conditional (C-1) use application, or
conditional (C-2) use application, as applicable, the following shall also
apply to all applications to establish and operate an AFO:
      1.   Preapplication Conference: Before submitting an application to
establish and/or operate an AFO, the applicant shall schedule and hold a
preapplication meeting with the county planner to discuss the proposed AFO and
to review the application process. The county planner shall provide the
applicant with a compliance checklist identifying the requirements of the
application and approval procedure, and a flow chart of the approval process.
The applicant shall provide information at the preapplication conference
regarding the proposed number of animal units to be confined in the AFO, the
proposed location of the AFO, and the intended development schedule.
      2.   Land Use Application: All applications to establish a level 2 AFO
shall, in addition to the conditional use application materials required
provide the following additional information:
         a.   The location and total size of all animal confinement areas and
the maximum number of animal units proposed to be confined.
         b.   The location of any incorporated towns, schools, churches, public
or private parks, and subdivisions within one-half (1/2) mile of the proposed
AFO.
         c.   The location of all inhabited dwellings located closer than six
hundred sixty feet (660') from any facilities that will constitute any part of
the animal confinement, feed storage or processing, or manure handling
facilities and lagoons.
         d.   The location of all public roads and highways within three
hundred feet (300') of the land upon which the AFO will be located.
         e.   The location of any existing wells and the boundary of any public
water system source protection zones located within three hundred feet (300')
of the boundary of the land on which the AFO will be developed.
         f.   The name of the person (or persons) or entity (or entities) that
will be responsible for managing the AFO.
         g.   Written evidence of water rights available and necessary for the
AFO and plans for the development of any water systems that will serve the AFO,
including an estimate of the total annual quantity of water to be used.
         h.   Plans for controlling dust generated during construction and
operation of the AFO.
         i.   A copy of mortality/dead animal disposal plan.
         j.   A plan to prevent or mitigate the effects of odors from the AFO
on lands where uses presently exist that may be affected by the AFO.
         k.   Plans for controlling insects, rodents, or other undesirable
animal species that may result from operation of the CAFO.
         l.   The access road(s), existing or proposed, for trucks and all
other regular vehicular traffic to and from the AFO.
         m.   The total number of animals to be located on the AFO estimated as
closely as possible for the next five (5) years.
         n.   A manure disposal plan.
      3.   Land Use Application: All applications to establish a level 3 AFO
shall, in addition to the conditional use application materials required
provide the following additional information:
         a.   All information required for level 2 AFO, as required by
subsection C2 of this section.
         b.   All applications submitted to the Utah department of
environmental quality, or if none have yet been submitted, the expected date on
which all such applications will be submitted.
         c.   The expected number of persons necessary to operate the level 3
AFO (CAFO).
         d.   The estimated investment in the level 3 AFO (CAFO) if it is
constructed as set forth in the proposal.
   D.   Fees: Fees for the review and processing of all permitted use
applications and conditional use applications involving an AFO shall be in
accordance with chapter 2 of the administrative manual. The application fee
shall be based on the maximum number of animal units to be maintained in the
AFO. Any permitted (P) use permit, conditional (C-1) use permit or conditional
(C-2) use permit issued for the AFO shall not provide for more animals than the
number on which the fee is based, unless the fee amount for additional animals
is paid prior to permit approval. In the event that additional assistance is
required to review the application, the county may, at its discretion, require
the applicant to pay all or a portion of the professional fees incurred by the
county for this service.
   E.   Filing Land Use Application: All permitted use applications and
conditional use applications shall be submitted to the county planner who shall
determine the application complete as required by chapter 2 of the
administrative manual.
   F.   Application Review:
      1.   All permitted (P) use applications to establish and/or operate a
level 1 AFO shall be reviewed as required by this section and chapter 7 of this
title.
      2.   All conditional (C-1) use applications and all conditional (C-2) use
applications, as applicable, to establish and/or operate a level 2 or level 3
AFO shall be reviewed as required by this section and chapter 8 of this title.
   G.   Site Selection Criteria And Required Minimum Separation: No AFO shall
be constructed, or allowed to operate, except on sites meeting the minimum site
selection criteria set out in this section, except for those that qualify as a
legal nonconforming use under this section. The minimum site requirements and
separation distances are:
      1.   Public Water Supply System: No AFO shall be located within the
source protection area of a public drinking water supply system, except for a
public water supply system constructed and operated solely for the benefit of
the AFO.
      2.   Access For Vehicles: All roads, streets, and other accesses
providing access for vehicles to the AFO shall be sufficient for the type and
volume of traffic necessary for operation of the AFO, or adequate provision
shall be made to improve such roads, streets, and accesses as part of the AFO
approval.
      3.   Comprehensive Nutrient Management Plan: The AFO shall have
sufficient lands for application of manure nutrients, unless the AFO will
utilize other manure management systems such as systems providing nutrient
reduction or processing of manure components. When required either by Utah law
or by conditions of approval, an approved comprehensive nutrient management
plan (CNMP) shall be prepared for the AFO, and arrangements shall be made for
the use of lands to be used as part of the CNMP.
      4.   Utility Services: All utility services must be sufficient for the
AFO, or provision must be made for such utility services to be provided.
      5.   Water Supply: There must be an adequate water supply for the AFO,
with sufficient water rights either by contract or by rights appurtenant to the
AFO lands.
      6.   Required Minimum Separation Distances: The following minimum
separation distances shall apply to all AFOs:
         a.   The setbacks for land improvements used in a level 1 AFO shall be
the setback requirements required by the zoning district.
         b.   In addition to the setback requirements of the zoning district
all level 2 and level 3 AFOs shall comply with the following minimum separation
distances:
            (1)   No corral, building or structure which houses or is intended
to house any livestock or any manure storage area or waste lagoon shall be
located closer than one-half (1/2) mile from the property or boundary line of
the nearest incorporated town, school, church, public park, or platted
subdivision.
            (2)   No corral, building or structure which houses or is intended
to house livestock or any manure storage area or manure treatment lagoon shall
be located closer than fifty feet (50') from the property line of the AFO
facility.
            (3)   All corrals, buildings, or structures which house or are
intended to house any livestock, and all manure storage areas and manure
treatment lagoons shall be located at least one hundred feet (100') from the
centerline of any road used by the public for general travel, except state and
federal highways, for which the minimum separation distance shall be two
hundred feet (200') from the centerline.
            (4)   The closest inside edge of the retaining wall of any manure
treatment lagoon, or outside wall of a milking barn, or the outside edge of any
corral or manure storage area shall be at least six hundred sixty feet (660')
from the nearest inhabited dwelling, other than dwellings for the owner or
employees of the AFO, or for which an appropriate easement has been obtained.
            (5)   No AFO structures which house, or are intended to house,
livestock or any other contamination sources may be located within one hundred
feet (100') of an existing well unless grouting or other wellhead protection
approved by the appropriate state of Utah agency has been implemented.
            (6)   For a level 3 AFO, the required minimum separation distance
shall increase from six hundred sixty feet (660') at the rate of one hundred
feet (100') for each additional one hundred (100) animal units to a maximum of
one and one-half (1.5) miles.
      7.   Consideration Of Application: The planning commission in considering
and deciding a conditional use (C-1) level 2 AFO application, and the planning
commission in recommending, and the county commission in considering and
deciding a conditional use (C-2) level 3 AFO application, may modify the
minimum separation distances, required by this section, for a level 2 AFO or
level 3 AFO if it can be shown, by substantial evidence presented to the
planning commission and county commission, that the purposes of this section,
as provided by section
10-1-4 of this title can be secured, and the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens and businesses of Millard County is protected.
   H.   State Permits: Before the land use authority, as applicable, approves a
permitted (P) use application, conditional (C-1) use application or conditional
(C-2) use application to establish and/or operate any AFO, the owner shall
obtain all of the necessary permits and licenses, as required by the state of
Utah.
   I.   Notification: Before a land use application to establish or operate a
level 3 AFO is determined complete by the county planner, the applicant shall
provide evidence that the following Utah state agencies have been notified
either in writing, or have been furnished a copy of the land use application:
      1.   Utah department of agriculture.
      2.   Utah department of environmental quality, division of water quality.
      3.   Utah department of environmental quality, division of air quality.
      4.   Utah department of environmental quality, division of solid and
hazardous waste.
      5.   Utah department of environmental quality, division of drinking water
if the AFO proposes to use a water system that would become regulated as a
public drinking water system under Utah administrative code.
      6.   Central Utah public health department if the AFO proposes to use a
private wastewater treatment system.
   J.   Minimum Design And Operational Requirements: In addition to minimum
separation distances, the design and management practices of all AFOs can
significantly influence the effects such facilities have on other land uses.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to operate any AFO without obtaining the
necessary land use application approval as required by this section and this
ordinance.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to operate any AFO in violation of any
requirement or condition of approval or any other federal or state requirement.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to operate any AFO without the necessary state
of Utah permits and licenses, or in noncompliance with such permits or
licenses.
   K.   Incompatible Uses: If any non-AFO, or incompatible land use locates
within the required separation distances of any AFO as set forth herein, or if
any such non-AFO locates within a separation distance which the AFO would be
required to maintain if it were designed for a greater number of animal units,
the non-AFO may not maintain an action for nuisance or to compel the county to
enforce this section with respect to the AFO. Further, the separation distance
requirements for AFOs set forth in this section shall be determined at the time
the AFO is permitted and shall not apply to other uses that encroach on the AFO
after the AFO has been issued a valid land use permit. (Ord. 13-10-01, 10-1-
2013)
 
Notes
  1. The confinement of 10 or fewer animal units may occur without a permitted
1 or conditional use approval in the RF, AG-20, AG, and AI zoning districts.
  All AFOs shall be considered a prohibited use in the R1, HC, LI and HI zoning
  districts.
CHAPTER 19
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-19-1: Purpose
10-19-2: General Provisions
10-19-3: Size Of Off Street Parking And Loading Spaces
10-19-4: Access Requirements
10-19-5: Location Of Required Off Street Parking
10-19-6: Maintenance Of Parking Spaces And Areas
10-19-7: Number Of Required Off Street Parking Spaces
10-19-8: Disabled Persons Parking
10-19-9: Reduction Of Off Street Parking Requirements
10-19-10: Off Street Loading Requirements
10-19-11: Location Of Loading Spaces
10-19-12: Size Of Loading Spaces
10-19-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of off street parking requirements is to promote traffic safety,
convenience and efficiency and to minimize hard surfaced areas to reduce
stormwater runoff and visual impacts while providing adequate parking
sufficient to support the associated use or activity. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-19-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Off street parking spaces shall be provided, meeting the requirements
of this title, for all new buildings, all additions, or enlargements to an
existing building, the establishment of any new use, or the expansion of any
existing use.
   B.   If an existing, legally established use or building is expanded by more
than thirty percent (30%) of the existing site or gross floor area, all off
street parking spaces and areas shall comply with the requirements of this
title, as applicable.
   C.   Required off street parking spaces shall not be used for the repair of
motor vehicles, or the display or sale of goods and services of any kind,
unless authorized by a land use application approval.
   D.   Oil separators and other pollution control devices may be required as
part of land use application approval, as may be required by a land use
authority, as applicable.
   E.   Off street parking is prohibited in all accessways, fire lanes or
similar areas not designated for parking purposes. These areas shall be posted
with "No Parking" signs and/or other means as required.
   F.   No off street parking area shall be used for the overnight occupancy of
any vehicle including motor homes, campers, or trailers, unless authorized by a
land use application approval. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-19-3: SIZE OF OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
   A.   The minimum dimension of all off street parking spaces, other than
parallel spaces, shall be ten feet (10') wide by eighteen feet (18') long. The
minimum dimension of all parallel off street parking spaces shall be nine feet
(9') wide by twenty five feet (25') long.
   B.   All required loading spaces shall have a minimum dimension as required
by the land use authority, depending on their location and the nature of the
use. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-19-4: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All ingress and egress locations from an adjacent road or street to any
off street parking areas, including curb cuts, drive approaches, or other
accesses, shall be approved by the county or the Utah department of
transportation, as applicable.
   B.   The location and dimension of all driveways shall be as approved by the
land use authority with use approval, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-19-5: LOCATION OF REQUIRED OFF STREET PARKING:
All required off street parking spaces shall be located on the same lot as the
use or building it serves. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-19-6: MAINTENANCE OF PARKING SPACES AND AREAS:
Every parcel of land used as a public or private off street parking area shall
be constructed and maintained in compliance with the following requirements:
   A.   Surfacing: All off street parking areas shall be surfaced with a
surface adequate in relation to its location and use. All parking areas shall
be surfaced to provide a dustless surface. A stormwater drainage system may be
required to be provided, as determined necessary by the land use authority.
   B.   Traffic Control: Traffic control signs and/or striping shall be
provided, as adopted by the county and required by the land use authority
necessary to minimize any vehicular and pedestrian conflicts. (Ord. 12-12-04,
12-4-2012)
10-19-7: NUMBER OF REQUIRED OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
The number of required off street parking spaces shall be provided as required
by table
10-19-1, "Minimum Off Street Parking Requirements", of this section and
complying with the following:
   A.   Fractional Amount: In calculating the total number of required off
street parking spaces, fractional amounts shall be rounded to the nearest whole
number.
   B.   Unspecified Uses: The land use authority shall determine the off street
parking requirements for any use not specifically listed in table
10-19-1 of this section, but identified as an allowed use in section
10-25-1 of this title, table of uses.
      TABLE
10-19-1
      MINIMUM OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Use Minimum Off Street Parking Standard
Use                                     Minimum Off Street Parking Standard
Accessory building/structure
Accessory outside storage
Accessory use
Agricultural building
Agricultural use
Beer and liquor license(s)
Cemetery
Childcare, licensed family
Childcare, residential certificate
Earth station
Electric substation (major)             No requirement
Electric substation (minor)
Electric transmission right of way
(major)
Electric transmission right of way
(minor)
Gas pipeline right of way (major)
Gas pipeline right of way (minor)
Home occupation (major)
Home occupation (minor)
Kennel (hobby)
Kennel (noncommercial)                   
Meteorological station
Petroleum pipeline right of way (major)
Petroleum pipeline right of way (minor)
Wind energy system (major)
Wind energy system (minor)
Wireless telecommunications site/
facility
Accessory dwelling unit for a relative
or employee
Dwelling unit, manufactured home
Dwelling unit, mobile home (existing)   2 spaces
Dwelling unit, single-family
Dwelling unit, single-family (existing)
Temporary construction office
Temporary dwelling unit
Accessory agricultural sales
Agricultural products processing and
storage
Airport/heliport
Animal feeding operation
Automotive care
Automotive self-service station
Childcare, home daycare
Commercial plant nursery
Composting facility
Concentrated animal feeding operation
Contractor's office/contractor's
storage yard
Correctional facility
Educational facility
Electrical generating facility          As approved by the land use authority
Kennel (commercial)                     with land use application approval,
Livestock auction facility              dependent on the type, size, location,
Natural or manufactured gas storage     accessory uses, and nature of the use
Public use                              or facility
Public utility
Recreation (outdoor)
Recycling center
Seasonal use
Special event
Special use
Storage, hazardous materials
Storage, ministorage
Storage, open/outdoor storage
Storage, wholesale and warehousing
Swimming pool
Temporary use
Tennis court/sports court
Vehicle and equipment rental or sale,
new or used
Childcare, hourly
Construction and contractor's sales and
services                                1 parking space for each 400 square
Retail store                            feet of gross floor area
Vehicle and equipment service and
repair
                                        1 parking space for each guestroom in
Bed and breakfast inn                   addition to the requirements of the
                                        owner's dwelling unit
Campground                              1 space for each campsite or RV space
                                        2 stacking spaces per each wash bay,
Car wash                                excluding any spaces located in the
                                        wash bay
                                        1 parking space for each 3 persons,
                                        based on the maximum anticipated
Church                                  capacity of all facilities capable of
                                        simultaneous use as determined by the
                                        land use authority
Childcare, facility                     1 parking space for each staff member
Commercial daycare/preschool center     plus 1 space for each 10 students

                                        1 space for each person employed during
Veterinary clinic                       regular working hours plus 1 space for
                                        each 1,200 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
                                        1 space for each 300 square feet of
Convenience store (existing and new)    gross floor area plus 2 spaces per each
                                        gasoline pump provided
                                        2 spaces for each 300 square feet of
Sexually oriented business or activity  gross floor area plus 1 space for every
                                        2 employees during regular hours
Guest ranch                             1 space for each sleeping unit plus 1
Hotel                                   space for each employee on the night
Motel                                   shift
Resort
Liquor store (state owned)              1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Asphalt batch plant
Concrete batch plant
Distribution center
Forestry/forest practice
Industrial/manufacturing activity       1 space for each employee on the
(general)                               regular shift, plus 1 space for each
Industrial/manufacturing activity       vehicle used in association with the
(light)                                 use
Landfill
Meat or poultry processing facility
Mining (subsurface)
Mining (surface)
Salvage yard
                                        1 parking space for each 4 fixed seats
Mortuary, funeral home                  in the assembly area, plus 1 for each
                                        funeral vehicle
Nursing home (convalescent care)        1 parking space for each 2 patient beds
facility
Residential facility for elderly
persons
Residential facility for persons with a
disability                              2 spaces plus 1 for each 2 employees
Residential facilities for persons with during regular hours
a disability that are substance abuse
facilities and are located within 500
feet of a school
Therapeutic school
                                        1 space for each 4 seats or 1 space for
Restaurant                              each 100 square feet of gross floor
                                        area, whichever is less
 
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-19-8: DISABLED PERSONS PARKING:
Designated parking for persons with a disability shall be provided for all
uses, meeting the requirements and specifications of the Americans with
disabilities act. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-19-9: REDUCTION OF OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Requests to reduce off street parking requirement(s) may be granted by the land
use authority if the applicant shows, by the presentation of information and
materials, that a reduced number of off street parking spaces will meet the
demands of the proposed use without increasing traffic or on street parking
problems in adjacent areas. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-19-10: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
Every building or use receiving or distributing materials or merchandise by
truck shall provide and maintain on the same lot as the building or use the
number of required off street loading spaces as required by table
10-19-2, "Minimum Off Street Loading Requirements" of this section. No loading
space(s) shall be considered as meeting any off street parking requirements of
this chapter.
   TABLE
10-19-2
   MINIMUM OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
 
Total Gross Floor Area Of Building Minimum Number Of Loading Spaces Required
Less than 30,000 square feet       1
30,000 square feet and greater     2
 
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-19-11: LOCATION OF LOADING SPACES:
No off street loading space shall be permitted in any front yard. All loading
spaces shall be screened from view from any road or street. The location of all
loading areas shall not interfere with off street parking area circulation
patterns. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-19-12: SIZE OF LOADING SPACES:
All required off street loading spaces shall have a minimum dimension as
approved by the land use authority. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 20
SENSITIVE LANDS OVERLAY DISTRICT (SL)
SECTION:
10-20-1: Purpose
10-20-2: Sensitive Lands Defined
10-20-3: Sensitive Lands Determination Required With Application
10-20-4: Sensitive Lands Determination Requirements
10-20-5: All Approvals, Licenses, And Permits To Comply
10-20-6: Application Requirements
10-20-7: Sensitive Lands Protection Regulations; Streams And Floodplains
10-20-8: Sensitive Lands Protection Regulations; Wetlands
10-20-9: Sensitive Lands Protection Regulations; Slopes
10-20-10: Sensitive Lands Protection Regulations; Geologic Hazards
10-20-11: Building Code Requirements
10-20-12: County Road Construction Standards To Apply
10-20-13: Reasonable Use Of Property
10-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purposes of the sensitive lands overlay district (SL) are to:
   A.   Protect and preserve the sensitive land areas of the county, as defined
by this chapter and this title.
   B.   Protect the health, welfare, and safety of all residents and minimize
any risks to life and property.
   C.   Minimize the potential for demands on the fiscal resources of the
county to mitigate and correct any risks to the health, welfare, and safety of
the public, property owners, individuals, public infrastructure, facilities,
and services, and private investment.
   D.   Preserve, as practical, the natural setting of the county to maintain
and strengthen private property values, protect and enhance the county's
economy, and protect the quality of life and amenities of existing and future
residents.
   E.   Guide and require responsible land use and development for those lands
identified to have development limitations due to natural sensitivities and
constraints.
   F.   Require that all development and construction located on sensitive
lands areas recognize the natural features and topography of the site, thereby
reducing site impacts. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-2: SENSITIVE LANDS DEFINED:
For the purposes of this chapter, and this title, the following lands are
hereby determined and identified to be "sensitive lands", and subject to the
requirements of this chapter and this title:
   A.   All areas identified to be subject to a 100-year flood event, including
the boundaries of all natural drainageways and 100-year floodplains.
   B.   All areas of wetlands, as identified, or as may be identified by the
U.S. army corps of engineers.
   C.   All areas where the increase or decrease in the elevation of the
natural grade is equal to or greater than fifteen percent (15%) (15 feet of
grade change for every 100 feet of horizontal run for a minimum distance of 100
feet).
   D.   Areas of known geologic hazard, as identified, or as may be identified
by a state or federal agency with authority. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-3: SENSITIVE LANDS DETERMINATION REQUIRED WITH APPLICATION:
A sensitive lands determination, complying with this section, shall be required
to accompany any land use application required by this title when:
   A.   The property, or any part thereof, that is the subject of the
application, is identified as being located, wholly or in part, within a
sensitive land area, as defined by section
10-20-2 of this chapter.
   B.   The BOCC, commission, or county planner/zoning administrator has
information or knowledge that indicates the possibility that sensitive lands
may exist. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-4: SENSITIVE LANDS DETERMINATION REQUIREMENTS:
When required by sections
10-20-2 and
10-20-3 of this chapter a sensitive lands determination shall comply with the
following:
   A.   Be performed by qualified professionals with the necessary licensure,
certification, or expertise required to identify and delineate all sensitive
land areas occurring on the proposed development site.
   B.   Be based on an accurate survey of the subject property.
   C.   Include necessary text and map materials sufficient to clearly identify
and delineate the following site features and conditions, as may be applicable
to the site:
      1.   The area and boundaries of all areas subject to flooding, including
the boundaries of all natural drainageways and 100-year floodplains, including
a map identifying the base and 100-year floodplain elevations.
      2.   The area and boundaries of all wetlands, as identified by the U.S.
army corps of engineers, or a wetlands delineator, as certified by the U.S.
army corps of engineers.
      3.   A slope analysis, using a contour interval of five feet (5'), and
clearly identifying all area(s) and boundaries where the increase or decrease
in the elevation of the natural grade of the subject property is equal to, or
greater than fifteen percent (15%) (15 feet of grade change for every 100 feet
of horizontal run for a minimum distance of 100 feet).
      4.   Areas of known geologic hazard, as identified, or as identified by a
state or federal agency with authority. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-5: ALL APPROVALS, LICENSES, AND PERMITS TO COMPLY:
All approvals, licenses, and permits issued for any use and/or construction on
any sensitive lands are required to recognize any requirements of the land use
authority, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-6: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the other requirements of the county's land use ordinances, the
following information and materials are required when land use applications
propose the location of a use or subdivision on any sensitive land area:
   A.   Site Plan: Ten (10) copies of a site plan or subdivision layout plan,
drawn at a scale of one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20'), or as required by
the county planner/zoning administrator, prepared by a licensed engineer, plus
ten (10) copies of an eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") reduced copy of
the site plan identifying the following:
      1.   For use applications, the location and dimension of the property and
all proposed uses and buildings, and existing buildings or other structures
located on the property, and existing buildings and structures located within
one hundred feet (100') of the property. Existing property lines and existing
fence lines shall be shown. For subdivision applications, the location and
dimension of the property and all proposed lots, roads, and other rights of way
shall be shown. Existing property lines and existing fence lines shall be
shown.
      2.   A description of all proposed uses and buildings, including the
total site area and building square footage, by building.
      3.   The location and dimension of all sensitive land areas, as defined
herein.
      4.   The proposed setbacks and exterior dimensions of all proposed
buildings and structures.
      5.   The location of all roads adjacent to the site, or proposed to serve
the site, and including a list of any permits required by the county or the
Utah department of transportation, as applicable.
      6.   The location and dimension of all proposed ingress and egress
points, off street parking, and loading areas, including the total number of
parking and loading spaces.
      7.   All public and private rights of way and easements located on, or
adjacent to the property, proposed to be continued, created, relocated, or
abandoned shall be shown.
      8.   The location of all areas subject to the provisions of the Utah
wildland-urban interface code.
   B.   Site Photographs: Photographs of the site looking out from the property
in all directions and of the property from several different viewpoints.
   C.   Grading And Drainage Plan(s): A detailed grading and drainage plan
shall be provided, prepared by a registered engineer or geologist, identifying
the existing topography, and the proposed finished grade of the site, shown at
a maximum contour interval of five feet (5'), or as required by the zoning
administrator. All areas of excavation and fill, slopes of cut and fill, total
cubic yards of excavation and fill, methods of concealment for each exposed cut
and fill, and calculations identifying the limits and amount of disturbance for
the total site shall be shown. This plan shall show the original drainage
pattern (natural course) and proposed changes, if any. If any structures or
culverts are involved, it will be necessary to include an estimate of peak
flows for a 100-year storm event to establish drainage facility cross sections.
   D.   Erosion Control Plan(s): Information and plans identifying proposed
temporary and permanent erosion control measures.
   E.   Construction Plans: A narrative identifying the phases of all
construction, a construction schedule, and a list of all permits necessary for
the proposed uses, as applicable. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-7: SENSITIVE LANDS PROTECTION REGULATIONS; STREAMS AND FLOODPLAINS:
The following requirements and standards are provided to promote, preserve, and
enhance stream corridors and all areas subject to flooding and to protect
private and public property from damage due to flooding. Unless modified by
this section, all development standards of the zoning district in which the
property is located shall apply.
   A.   Prohibited Activities: No person shall disturb, remove, fill, dredge,
clear, destroy or alter any stream corridor, except as may be expressly allowed
by a valid stream channel alteration permit, as issued by the state of Utah
department of natural resources.
   B.   Required Setbacks: Setbacks for any building, structure or improvement
located within or adjacent to a stream corridor shall comply with the more
restrictive setback requirements of the zoning district or the requirements of
the state of Utah department of natural resources.
   C.   Runoff Controls: All construction and development projects located
adjacent to a stream corridor shall apply best management practices for both
temporary and permanent runoff controls to minimize sediment and other
contaminants, as may be required by a state or federal agency with
jurisdiction.
   D.   Management Recommendations: The board of county commissioners or the
planning commission may request recommendations from any state, or federal
agencies, or other professionals, prior to deciding a land use application for
any required approval, permit, or license. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-8: SENSITIVE LANDS PROTECTION REGULATIONS; WETLANDS:
The following requirements and standards are provided to promote, preserve, and
enhance wetland areas and to protect them from potentially irreversible
impacts. Unless modified by this section, all development standards of the
zoning district in which the property is located shall apply.
   A.   Prohibited Activities: No person shall disturb, remove, fill, dredge,
clear, destroy or alter any wetland, except as may be expressly allowed by a
valid and necessary permit, as issued by the U.S. army corps of engineers.
   B.   Required Setbacks: Setbacks for any building, structure or improvement
located within or adjacent to a wetland, as identified by the U.S. army corps
of engineers, shall comply with the more restrictive setback requirements of
the zoning district in which it is located, or the U.S. army corps of
engineers, as applicable.
   C.   Runoff Controls: All construction and development projects located
adjacent to a wetland shall apply best management practices for both temporary
and permanent runoff controls to minimize sediment and other contaminants, as
may be required by U.S. army corps of engineers.
   D.   Management Recommendations: The board of county commissioners or the
planning commission may request recommendations from any state, or federal
agencies, or other professionals, prior to deciding a land use application for
any required approval, permit, or license. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-9: SENSITIVE LANDS PROTECTION REGULATIONS; SLOPES:
The following requirements and standards are provided to achieve the purposes
of this title, to avoid unnecessary excavation and grading, to preserve
naturally occurring landscape features, and to protect the visual quality,
character, and amenities of the county. Unless modified by this section, all
development standards of the zoning district in which the property is located
shall apply to all areas determined to have a slope equal to, or greater than,
fifteen percent (15%) (15 feet of grade change for every 100 feet of horizontal
run for a minimum distance of 100 feet).
   A.   Road Alignment: All road alignments shall parallel contours of the
natural terrain, as practicable. Short sections of roadways that run
perpendicular to contours should follow natural drainageways, where possible,
and should be curved and contoured to minimize any adverse impact.
   B.   Maximum Road Grade: The maximum grade of any road located in areas
determined to have a slope equal to, or greater than fifteen percent (15%),
shall be eight percent (8%), provided all cut and fill slopes are minimized and
revegetated, as required by the land use authority, with approval.
   C.   Maximum Limits Of Disturbance Area: The maximum area of any lot or
parcel that may be disturbed shall be limited as determined by the average
slope of the lot or parcel, as provided by table
10-20-1 of this section. The maximum limits of disturbance area shall be
identified on each lot or parcel and shall include all graded, excavated,
filled, or otherwise disturbed areas, the area occupied by the primary
building, all accessory building areas, areas of hard surfacing, including
driveways, walkways, patios, off street parking areas.
      TABLE
10-20-1
      MAXIMUM LOT OR PARCEL LIMITS OF DISTURBANCE
 
Average Lot Or Parcel Slope Maximum Limits Of Disturbance Area
   Less than 15%         As provided and required by the zoning district in
                            which the lot or parcel is located
   15% to less than 20%  20%
   20% or greater        10%
 
For the purposes of this chapter, the average slope of a lot or parcel shall be
determined as follows:
   AS = 100(CI x CL)/A
 
Where:   
 AS   = Average slope
 CI   = Contour interval in feet, at not more than 5 foot intervals
 CL   = Sum of the length of all the contour lines across the lot or parcel,
         in feet
 A    = Total area of the lot or parcel, in square feet
 
   D.   Areas Of Cut And Fill Slope: All proposed areas of cut and fill shall
meet the following requirements:
      1.   All cut and fill areas shall be minimized as much as practicable.
      2.   All cut and fill areas shall be located within, and included in the
maximum limits of disturbance area for each lot.
      3.   All cut and fill areas shall be recontoured to the natural, varied
contour of surrounding terrain.
      4.   All areas of cut and fill shall be temporarily planted or otherwise
protected from erosion during the period of construction and shall be
permanently planted or otherwise protected from erosion within thirty (30) days
after the completion of all grading or excavation.
   E.   Management Recommendations: The board of county commissioners or the
planning commission may request recommendations from any state or federal
agencies, or other professionals, prior to deciding a land use application for
any required approval, permit, or license. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-10: SENSITIVE LANDS PROTECTION REGULATIONS; GEOLOGIC HAZARDS:
The following requirements and standards are provided to protect the public
health, welfare, and safety from naturally occurring geologic hazards. Unless
modified by this section all development standards of the zoning district in
which the property is located shall apply.
   A.   Management Recommendations: The board of county commissioners or the
planning commission may request recommendations from a professional geologist
or geotechnical engineer, or other professionals, prior to deciding an
application for any required approval, permit, or license in any areas of known
geologic hazard, as may be identified by a state or federal agency with
authority. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-11: BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS:
All provisions of the building code, as adopted, and as applicable shall apply
to all construction occurring on any sensitive lands, as defined herein. The
building code, as adopted, is incorporated herein by this reference. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-12: COUNTY ROAD CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS TO APPLY:
No provision of this title shall be interpreted to exempt any sensitive lands
from the requirements of the county's road design and construction standards,
except as may be modified by section
10-20-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-20-13: REASONABLE USE OF PROPERTY:
If an applicant for any approval, permit, or license, required by this title,
demonstrates that application of the requirements of this chapter would deny
all reasonable use of the subject property, the board of county commissioners,
following the receipt of a recommendation from the planning commission, may
modify the application of these requirements to the extent necessary to provide
a reasonable use of the subject property. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 21
AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT (AO)
SECTION:
10-21-1: Purpose
10-21-2: Applicability
10-21-3: Airport Owner And/Or Operator Responsibility; Adopted Airport Plan
10-21-4: Airport Influence Areas And Other Areas
10-21-5: Notice Required
10-21-6: Reasonable Requirements And Conditions Authorized
10-21-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-21-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the airport overlay district (AO) is to protect the health,
welfare and safety, to avoid danger by lessening the chance of aircraft
accidents, and to maintain land use compatibility in the areas influenced by
airport operations. These purposes can be achieved by:
   A.   Minimizing exposure of residential and other sensitive land uses to
aircraft overflight.
   B.   Avoiding dangers in aircraft overflight areas.
   C.   Allowing compatible land use within the area. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-21-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This chapter shall apply to all lands identified within the adopted
airport plan of a publicly operated airport, and located within the county.
   B.   All land use applications affected by this chapter shall be reviewed
and approved or denied as provided by this title and this chapter.
   C.   The boundaries of all airport influence areas and other areas shall be
as identified on the adopted airport plan, and as provided to the county by the
owner and/or operator of the airport as required by subsection 10-21-3A of this
chapter. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-21-3: AIRPORT OWNER AND/OR OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITY; ADOPTED AIRPORT PLAN:
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of the airport owner and/or operator to
provide to the county planner/zoning administrator with the most current
adopted airport plan.
   B.   Failure of the airport owner and/or operator to provide the county
planner/zoning administrator with the most current adopted airport plan creates
no obligation for the county land use authority, as applicable, to apply the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Understanding subsection B of this section, the county land use may
apply the provisions of this chapter when the land use authority finds it is in
the best interests of the county, and its residents, to do so. (Ord. 12-12-04,
12-4-2012)
10-21-4: AIRPORT INFLUENCE AREAS AND OTHER AREAS:
   A.   The airport plan for a publicly operated airport located within the
county, and as adopted by the owner and/or operator, may include airport
influence zones, and other areas, as provided for by the federal aviation
administration ("FAA"). Such zones may include: 1) runway protection zone; 2)
object free area; 3) runway safety area; 4) primary surface; 5) approach
surface; 6) transitional surfaces; 7) horizontal and conical surfaces; and 8)
critical zones.
   B.   The definition of airport influence zones, and other areas, shall be as
contained in the adopted airport plan. In the event the adopted airport plan
does not provide a definition, the definition as provided by the FAA shall
apply. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-21-5: NOTICE REQUIRED:
If the owner and/or operator of a publicly operated airport provides the
adopted airport plan to the county planner/zoning administrator, as required by
section
10-21-3 of this chapter, the county planner/zoning administrator shall provide
notice to the owner and/or operator, complying with the notice requirements of
chapter 13, "Notice Requirements", of this title, when a land use application,
affected by this chapter, is first presented to the county land use authority
for review and decision. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-21-6: REASONABLE REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS AUTHORIZED:
   A.   The land use authority, as applicable, in reviewing an application,
shall consider the adopted airport plan, and its associated airport influence
zones, and other areas. The land use authority shall consider information
provided by the FAA and owner and/or operator of the airport. In considering an
application, no use or structure shall be authorized that:
      1.   Creates electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft;
      2.   Makes it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights
and other lighting;
      3.   Result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport;
      4.   Impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport; or
      5.   Otherwise creates a hazard or endangers the landing, takeoff, or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
   B.   In reviewing an application, the land use authority, as applicable, may
impose reasonable requirements and conditions designed to achieve the purposes
of this chapter and this section. Such reasonable requirements and conditions
may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Uses.
      2.   The location of all buildings and structures.
      3.   Building or structure height.
      4.   Building materials.
      5.   Building and site lighting.
      6.   Signage.
      7.   Site and building access.
      8.   Fencing.
      9.   Location of all utilities and associated facilities including water,
sewer, power, gas, and telephone.
      10.   Requiring fair disclosure statements and/or avigation easements.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-21-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
This chapter is considered reasonable to achieve the purposes of this title.
This chapter does not create a liability on the part of or a cause of action
against the county, or any officer or employee of the county for any damages
that may result directly or indirectly from reliance on this chapter. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 22
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
10-22-1: Purpose
10-22-2: Scope
10-22-3: Development Agreement Requirements
10-22-4: Development Agreement Procedures
10-22-5: Development Agreement Review
10-22-6: Effect Of Approval
10-22-7: Binding Nature Of Development Agreements
10-22-8: Expenses
10-22-9: Enforcement
10-22-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes the procedures and standards by which the county may
consider and approve development agreements. A development agreement adopted
and executed by the BOCC and the applicant pursuant to this chapter may:
   A.   Provide additional specificity of the applicable land use requirements
and regulations for the subject property by providing a development plan,
additional requirements and standards, and other provisions related to the
development of the subject property.
   B.   Extend and provide for additional enforcement actions not provided by
the county's land use ordinances, as may be agreed to by the BOCC and the
owner.
   C.   Provide for the provision and installation of various public
infrastructure and services.
   D.   Specify the uses and development standards applicable to the subject
property.
   E.   Include other lawful requirements, terms and considerations of the
county and the property owner.
   F.   Include requirements identified by the BOCC necessary to advance the
interests of the county and other provisions and requirements to protect the
public health, welfare and safety of the county, and its residents. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-22-2: SCOPE:
These provisions and requirements of this chapter shall apply to all property
located within the unincorporated area of the county. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-22-3: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
All development agreements shall, as a minimum, comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   Be in writing.
   B.   Provide an adequate legal description of the subject property and the
names of all legal and equitable owners.
   C.   The duration of the development agreement.
   D.   Identify the uses allowed and the procedures required for the approval
of all identified uses.
   E.   Identify applicable development standards, including the timing and
financial obligations associated with the provision of necessary public
infrastructure and services.
   F.   A description of any reservation or dedication of lands for public
purposes.
   G.   A description of any conditions, terms, restrictions, or other
requirements determined to be necessary to promote the public health, safety,
or welfare or the purposes of the development agreement. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-22-4: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Consideration of a proposed development agreement by the commission and
BOCC shall be considered an administrative matter.
   B.   The commission in formulating a recommendation, and the BOCC in
determining a final decision, shall find that substantial evidence has been
presented related to the development agreement.
   C.   At a regular public meeting the commission shall consider the proposed
development agreement, and all other materials and information presented and
shall make a recommendation to the BOCC.
   D.   At a regular public meeting the BOCC shall consider the commission's
recommendation, and all other materials and materials presented and shall
approve or deny the proposed development agreement, with or without
requirements and conditions and with necessary findings. If approved, the BOCC
chair and property owner shall sign the development agreement, as approved by
the BOCC.
   E.   Within fourteen (14) days of BOCC approval the development agreement
shall be executed and signed by the BOCC chair and property owner(s). The
executed development agreement shall be recorded in the office of the Millard
County recorder, which recorded development agreement constituting the official
document of the county. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-22-5: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT REVIEW:
In reviewing a proposed development agreement the commission and BOCC may
consider, but shall not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Public impacts and benefits;
   B.   Adequacy in the provision of all necessary public infrastructure and
services;
   C.   Appropriateness and adequacy of environmental protection measures; and
   D.   Protection and enhancements of the public health, welfare, and safety
above that provided by the existing land use ordinances. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-22-6: EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
   A.   The county's land use ordinances shall govern a development agreement
for the duration of the development agreement, supplemented and modified only
to the extent expressly provided for by the development agreement.
   B.   The BOCC may adopt laws and policies applicable to the subject property
if the BOCC has complied with the required processes and determined:
      1.   Such laws and policies are essential to the public health, safety,
or welfare; or
      2.   Federal and/or state laws are applicable and preclude full
compliance by the county or property owner. A development agreement, subject to
subsequent federal and/or state laws shall be modified as necessary to comply
with the applicable federal or state laws. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-22-7: BINDING NATURE OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
All development agreements shall be binding on the county and the property
owner and on all successors and assigns for the term of the agreement. (Ord.
12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-22-8: EXPENSES:
The county may require the applicant to reimburse the county for all of the
county's expenses related to preparation of a development agreement. (Ord. 12-
12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-22-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   All development agreements shall provide specific enforcement
mechanisms to ensure compliance.
   B.   The county may utilize all available enforcement mechanisms necessary
to achieve compliance with this title and any development agreement including
the withholding of necessary land use approvals and permits. (Ord. 12-12-04,
12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 23
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-23-1: Purpose
10-23-2: Violations And Building Permits
10-23-3: Types Of Violations
10-23-4: Legal Nonconformity An Affirmative Defense
10-23-5: Revocation Of Land Use Application Approvals
10-23-6: Procedures For Revocation Or Modification Of A Land Use Application
Approval
10-23-7: Stop Work
10-23-8: Penalties For Violations
10-23-9: Appeal
10-23-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes procedures, remedies, and penalties for violations of
this title and the subdivision ordinance, and to provide for enforcement.
   A.   The county, or an adversely affected owner of real estate within the
county, in which violations of this title or the subdivision ordinance are
occurring, or are about to occur, may, in addition to other remedies provided
by law, institute 1 :
      1.   Injunctions, mandamus, abatement, or any other appropriate actions 2
; or
      2.   Proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove the unlawful
building, use, or act 3 .
   B.   The county need only establish the violation to obtain the injunction 4
. (Ord. 15-02-17, 2-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 17-27a-802(1)(a).
2 2. UCA § 17-27a-802(1)(a)(i).
3 3. UCA § 17-27a-802(1)(a)(ii).
4 4. UCA § 17-27a-802(1)(b).
10-23-2: VIOLATIONS AND BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   The county may enforce this title, or the subdivision ordinance, by
withholding building permits 1 .
   B.   If a building permit is required by this title or the subdivision
ordinance it shall be unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter, or
change the use of any building or other structure within the county without the
approval of such building permit 2 .
   C.   If a building permit is required by the building codes, the county
shall not issue a building permit unless the plans for the proposed
construction, reconstruction, alteration, or use fully conform and comply with
this title, the subdivision ordinance, and the building codes 3 . (Ord. 15-02-
17, 2-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 5. UCA § 17-27a-802(2)(a).
2 1. UCA § 17-27a-802(2)(b).
3 2. UCA § 17-27a-802(2)(c).
10-23-3: TYPES OF VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
title or the subdivision ordinance, cause the violation of a provision or fail
or refuse to do some act required by this title or the subdivision ordinance,
including:
      1.   To engage in any development, use, construction, remodeling, or
other activity upon the land and improvements requiring land use application
approvals or building permit(s) 1 .
      2.   To reduce or diminish any lot or parcel area so that minimum area,
setbacks or open spaces shall be smaller than required by this title or for
subdivision application approval.
      3.   To increase the density or intensity of use of any land or a
structure requiring necessary land use application approval 2 .
      4.   To remove, deface, obscure, or otherwise interfere with any notice
required by this title, or the subdivision ordinance. (Ord. 15-02-17, 2-17-
2015)
 
Notes
1 3. UCA § 17-27a-802(2)(c).
2 4. UCA § 17-27a-802(2)(c).
10-23-4: LEGAL NONCONFORMITY AN AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
It shall be an affirmative defense to the enforcement of this title and the
subdivision ordinance that the violation being enforced exists as a legal
nonconforming use, legal noncomplying structure or other legal nonconformity of
this title or the subdivision ordinance 1 . (Ord. 15-02-17, 2-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 5. UCA § 17-27a-510.
10-23-5: REVOCATION OF LAND USE APPLICATION APPROVALS 1 :
   A.   A land use authority may revoke a land use application approval if
approval was based on inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete information
provided by the property owner or applicant.
   B.   The land use authority may revoke an approved land use application if
the requirements, terms or conditions of approval are not met. (Ord. 15-02-17,
2-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 6. UCA §§ 17-27a-611, 17-27a-802.
10-23-6: PROCEDURES FOR REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF A LAND USE APPLICATION
APPROVAL 1 :
   A.   Prior to initiating enforcement proceedings or criminal prosecution as
provided for in this chapter, the county planner/zoning administrator shall
provide written notice, by mail or hand delivery, of each violation of this
title or the subdivision ordinance to the owner of record, on file in the
county recorder's office, or to the person designated, in writing, by the owner
of record as the owner's agent.
   B.   The owner of record shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) calendar
days to cure the violation, as noticed by the county planner/zoning
administrator, as provided in subsection A of this section.
   C.   The land use authority may extend the period to cure the noticed
violation, to a date certain, if evidence is presented, at a commission
meeting, that the owner of record is proceeding with reasonableness and
compelling reasons exist for such extension.
   D.   Following the expiration of the period to cure a noticed violation the
land use authority may revoke an approved land use application, if the land use
authority finds that one or more of the following exist:
      1.   The land use application approval was obtained in a fraudulent
manner.
      2.   One or more of the requirements, terms or conditions of the land use
application approval has not been met.
   E.   A land use authority may modify the requirements, terms, or conditions
of a land use application approval if the land use authority finds that the use
is creating a nuisance. (Ord. 15-02-17, 2-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 17-27a-803(3)(b).
10-23-7: STOP WORK:
In accordance with its power to stop work under the building code, as adopted,
the building official may issue a stop work order, with or without revoking
permits, on any building or structure on land where there exists an uncorrected
violation of the building code, section A115.1 international building code.
(Ord. 15-02-17, 2-17-2015)
10-23-8: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS 1 :
In addition to other enforcement mechanisms provided for in this chapter, a
violation of any of the provisions of this title or the subdivision ordinance
is punishable as a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 15-02-17, 2-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 17-27a-803.
10-23-9: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the enforcement decision of a land use authority may
appeal the decision to the appeal authority, as identified by chapter 14 of
this title 1 . (Ord. 15-02-17, 2-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 2. UCA § 17-27a et seq., including §§ 17-27a-801, 17-27a-704.
CHAPTER 24
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS
SECTION:
10-24-1: Purpose
10-24-2: Guidelines Advisory
10-24-3: Review Of Takings Application Required
10-24-4: Results Of Review
10-24-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The policies of the county, favor the careful consideration of matters
involving constitutional taking claims, in fairness to the owner of private
property bringing the claim, and in view of the uncertainty and expense
involved in defending such issues. At the same time, the legitimate role of the
county in lawfully regulating real property must be preserved and the public's
right to require the dedication or exaction of property, consistent with the
constitution. Consistent with these policies, this chapter establishes a
procedure for the review of actions that may involve the issue of
constitutional takings, as well as providing guidelines for such
considerations. This chapter is intended and shall be construed to objectively
and fairly review claims that a specific county action should require payment
of just compensation, while preserving the ability of the county to lawfully
regulate real property and fulfill its obligations, duties and functions.
   B.   This chapter, and chapter 13 of the administrative manual, identifies
and provides the standards and procedures for the review of all constitutional
takings review applications. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-24-2: GUIDELINES ADVISORY:
The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to this chapter are
advisory only, and shall not be construed to expand or limit the scope of the
county's liability for a constitutional taking. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-24-3: REVIEW OF TAKINGS APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a constitutional
taking of private real property by an action of the county shall request a
review of a final decision by filing a constitutional takings review
application, containing all the information required. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-
2012)
10-24-4: RESULTS OF REVIEW:
After completing the review, the BOCC, or designee, shall make a determination
regarding the issues and where determined to be necessary and appropriate,
shall make a recommendation to the land use authority that made the decision
that gave rise to the constitutional takings claim. (Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 25
APPENDICES
SECTION:
10-25-1: Appendix A, Table Of Uses And Accompanying Use Definitions
10-25-2: Appendix B-1, Development Standards For Primary Buildings And
Structures
10-25-3: Appendix B-2, Development Standards For Detached Accessory Buildings
And Structures
10-25-1: APPENDIX A, TABLE OF USES AND ACCOMPANYING USE DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Use Standards:
      1.   Purpose; Legend: The Millard County table of uses identifies the
uses allowed within each zoning district and provides a definition for each
use. The table of uses identifies uses allowed as:
 
P-1 = Permitted use
P-2 = Permitted use
C-1 = Conditional use
C-2 = Conditional use
X   = Use prohibited in the zoning district (zone)
 
A use that is not identified in the table of uses is determined to be a
prohibited use in Millard County. See section
10-17-8 of this title.
      2.   Land Use Authorities: The land use authority for all P-1 uses is the
county planner/zoning administrator. The land use authority for all P-2 uses is
the commission. The land use authority for all C-1 uses is the commission. The
land use authority for all C-2 uses is the BOCC.
      3.   Ensuring Requirements Are Met: The land use authority, as
applicable, shall ensure that all requirements of this title are met,
particularly chapters 17 and 18 of this title, as applicable, with all land use
application and permit approvals.
      4.   Applicability: The land use authority, as applicable, in reviewing a
land use application shall determine if the requirements of chapters 20 and 21
of this title are applicable.
      5.   Major Utility Corridors: Any use, building, structure, or activity
proposed to be located within a major utility corridor, as defined and
identified by the Millard County general plan, as adopted, shall be reviewed
and considered by the Millard County planning commission for utility corridor
compatibility. If such use, building, structure, or activity is determined by
the planning commission to conflict with the purpose(s) of the major utility
corridor, or to be incompatible in any way, such use, building, structure, or
activity shall be a prohibited use, building, structure or activity within the
major utility corridor.
      6.   Superscripts: Superscripts refer to the notes, provided immediately
following the table.
   B.      Use Table:
Use RF AG-20 AG AI R1 HC LI HI
Use                   RF   AG-20 AG     AI  R1     HC  LI  HI
Accessory
agricultural sales.
The retail or
wholesale sale of
agricultural or
horticultural
products which are    P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 X      X   X   X
grown or raised on
site not having been
purchased from
another location for
the purpose of
resale.
Accessory building/
structure. A building
or other structure
customarily
incidental and
clearly subordinate
to the existing
primary building and
located on the same
lot as the primary    P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 P-1    P-1 P-1 P-1
building, and meeting
all requirements of
the adopted building
codes, and land use
ordinances, as
applicable. See
section
10-18-6 of this
title.
Accessory dwelling
unit for an employee.
An attached, or
detached dwelling
unit for the
occupancy by the
owner, or employee of
the owner, and
incidental and
clearly subordinate
to the existing
primary building
located on the same
lot as the primary    C-1  C-1   C-1    C-1 X      C-1 C-1 C-1
building and
connected to the same
utilities and utility
meters as the primary
building and meeting
all requirements of
the land use
ordinances and
building codes, as
adopted. See sections
10-18-9 and
10-17-33 of this
title.
Accessory outside
storage. The outside
placement of items
which is clearly
incidental and
subordinate to the
existing primary use
and customarily found
in connection with
the primary use and   P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 P-2    P-2 P-1 P-1
located on the same
lot or in the same
building as the
primary use, and
meeting all
requirements of the
adopted building
codes, and land use
ordinances, as
applicable.
Accessory use. A use
clearly incidental
and subordinate to
the existing primary
use and customarily
found in connection
with the primary use
and located on the
same lot or in the
same building as the  P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 P-1    P-1 P-1 P-1
primary use, and
meeting all
requirements of the
adopted building
codes, and land use
ordinances, as
applicable. See
section
10-18-6 of this
title.
Agricultural
building. A structure
used in conjunction
with an allowed
agriculture use, as
defined herein, and
not for human
occupancy, and
complying with the
requirements of Utah
Code Annotated, 1953,
as amended. To        P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 P-1    X   X   X
qualify as an
agricultural
building, the
structure must meet
all requirements of
Utah Code Annotated,
1953, as amended and
be clearly associated
with and necessary to
support an
agricultural use.
Agricultural products
processing. The
processing of
agricultural products
including, but not
limited to, the
processing, cleaning,
sorting, grading,
packaging, or milling
of products which are
intended for direct
human or animal       C-1  C-1   X      C-1 X      X   X   C-1
consumption or use.
This use does not
include the
commercial
slaughtering or the
processing and
packaging of meat and
poultry. See meat or
poultry processing
facility of this
table.
Agricultural use. An
area of 5 contiguous
acres, or more, which
is used for the
production, keeping,
or maintenance for
sale of plants and
domestic animals, but
excluding the keeping
of exotic or
prohibited plants or
animals. Agricultural
use excludes          P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 P-1    P-1 P-1 P-1
commercial plant
nursery, as defined
herein, and
concentrated animal
feeding operation, as
defined by Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, as
amended, and similar
activities. See also
animal feeding
operation of this
table.
Airport/heliport.
Areas used for the
landing and takeoff
of both fixed wing
aircraft and
helicopters and
buildings or other
facilities, including
taxiways, aircraft    C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
storage and tie down
areas, hangars,
servicing, and
passenger and freight
terminals and which
may be designed or
used by both public
carriers or private
aircraft.
Animal control
facility. A public or
publicly licensed
facility to           C-1  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-1
temporarily detain
and/or dispose of
stray dogs, cats and
other animals.
Animal feeding
operation. Includes
both animal feeding
operation (AFO) and
concentrated animal                                  
feeding operation
(CAFO), as defined by
the state of Utah
administrative code.
  1. Level 1 animal
  feeding operation.
  Any confinement
  where more than 10
  but less than 300
  animal units are
 kept at the same    P    C-1   C-1    P   X      X   X   X
  time for more than
  45 days out of any
  calendar year; and
  does not also meet
  the definition of a
  CAFO.
  2. Level 2 animal
  feeding operation.
  A location where
  more than 300
  animal units are
 kept at the same    C-1  C-1   C-1    C-1 X      X   X   X
  time for more than
  45 days out of any
  calendar year; and
  does not also meet
  the definition of a
  CAFO.
  3. Level 3 animal
  feeding operation.
  Any AFO meeting the
  definition of a
  CAFO, as provided
  by the state of
 Utah or is          X    X     X      C-2 X      X   X   X
  designated by the
  executive secretary
  of the Utah
  department of
  environmental
  quality - division
  of water quality.
Asphalt batch plant.
A facility where
asphaltic materials
are manufactured and  X    X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
including accessory
asphalt materials
storage and
equipment.
Automotive care. An
establishment
providing motor
vehicle repair or
maintenance services
within completely
enclosed buildings.
Typical uses include
businesses engaged in
the following
activities:
electronic tune ups,
brake repairs
(including drum
turning), air         X    X     X      X   X      C-1 C-1 P-2
conditioning repairs,
generator and starter
repairs, tire
repairs, front end
alignments, battery
recharging,
lubrication, and
sales, repair and
installation of minor
parts and accessories
such as tires,
batteries, windshield
wipers, hoses,
windows, etc.
Automotive self-
service station. A
place where flammable
or combustible
liquids or gases used
as fuel are stored
and dispersed from
fixed equipment into
the fuel tanks of
motor vehicles. Such
an establishment may
offer the retail sale
of convenience items
as an accessory use.  X    X     X      X   X      C-1 X   X
Automotive self-
service station
specifically excludes
and does not allow
any servicing, repair
or maintenance of
motor vehicles,
trailers, and similar
mechanical equipment,
including engine,
brake, muffler, tire
repair and change,
lubrication and tune
ups.
Bed and breakfast
inn. An owner
occupied dwelling
located on a legal
lot and offering
transient lodging
accommodations where
meals may be
provided. A bed and
breakfast may have up
to 7 guestrooms. A
bed and breakfast inn
shall meet all
applicable            C-1  C-1   C-1    X   C-1    C-1 X   X
requirements of the
building codes,
health codes, and
land use ordinances,
as adopted, and must
be located so as to
be served by adequate
existing public
services. See
sections
10-18-11 and
10-17-33 of this
title.
Beer and liquor
license(s). All
licensees authorized
to sell beer and
liquor and/or consume
beer and liquor on or
off the premises
shall comply with all
requirements of the
Utah alcoholic
beverage control act, X    X     X      X   X      C-2 C-2 X
as amended, for type
of beer and liquor
license, as
applicable, and be
conducted in
compliance with all
requirements for the
issuance of such
license. See section
10-18-20 of this
title.
Campground. An area
of land upon which 1
or more sites are
established and       C-1  C-1   C-1    X   X      C-1 X   X
maintained for
occupancy by a tent
or recreational
vehicle.
Car wash. A structure
with machine or hand
operated facilities
used principally for
the cleaning,
washing, polishing,   X    X     X      X   X      C-1 C-1 X
or waxing of motor
vehicles. A facility
of this type may be
able to accommodate
more than 1 vehicle
at the same time.
Cemetery. A place
designated for the
burial or keeping of  C-1  C-1   C-1    X   C-1    X   X   X
human remains,
including crematories
and mausoleums.
Childcare, facility.
A facility that
provides childcare in
a place other than
the owner's residence
for 5 or more
children for less
than 24 hours per
day, having a
regularly scheduled,
ongoing enrollment,
for direct or
indirect compensation
and licensed as
required by the laws
and rules of the
state of Utah. A fire
clearance shall be    X    X     X      X   X      C-1 X   X
provided by the fire
authority, as
applicable, and this
use shall comply with
all business
licensing
requirements of the
county, as
applicable.
Childcare, facility
also includes child
preschool providing
instruction for 5 or
more children for
less than 24 hours a
day. See section
10-18-3 of this
title.
Childcare, home
daycare. The care of
children who are
family and nonfamily
members in an
occupied dwelling
unit, and complying
with all state
standards and
licensing, by a
resident of the
dwelling unit for
more than 5 children,
but fewer than 9
children. The total
number of children
being cared for shall
include children
under the age of 4
years residing in the
dwelling unit, who    X    P-2   P-2    X   P-2    P-2 X   X
are under the
supervision of the
provider during the
period of time the
childcare is
provided. Of the
allowed 8 children,
only 2 may be under
age 2. Home daycare
may use the entire
residential living
area and additionally
may use yard space
for play purposes.
This use is required
to comply with all
business licensing
requirements of the
county. See section
10-18-3 of this
title.
Childcare, hourly. A
facility that
provides childcare in
a place other than
the owner's residence
for 5 or more
children for less
than 24 hours a day,
but not on a regular
schedule; and
receiving direct or
indirect compensation
and licensed as
required by the laws
and rules of the
state of Utah. A fire
clearance shall be
provided by the fire  X    X     X      X   X      C-1 X   X
authority, as
applicable, and this
use shall comply with
all business
licensing
requirements of the
county, as
applicable.
Childcare, hourly
also includes child
preschool providing
instruction for 5 or
more children for
less than 24 hours a
day. See section
10-18-3 of this
title.
Childcare, licensed
family:
  1. A person who
  provides childcare
  in a residence for
  9 to 16 children,
  unrelated to the
  licensee for less
  than 24 hours a
  day, with a
  regularly
  scheduled, ongoing
  enrollment, for
  direct or indirect
  compensation. A
  "childcare,
  licensed family"    X    X     X      X   X      C-1 X   X
 must be licensed as
  a family group
  childcare program,
  as required by the
  laws and rules of
  the state of Utah.
  The fire authority,
  as applicable,
  shall provide a
  fire clearance and
  this use shall
  comply with all
  business licensing
  requirements of the
  county, as
  applicable.
  2. A person who provides childcare in a residence for less than 9 unrelated
  children for less than 24 hours per day, having a regularly scheduled,
  ongoing enrollment, for direct or indirect compensation may be licensed as a
  family childcare program, as required by the laws and rules of the state of
 Utah. The fire authority, as applicable, shall provide a fire clearance and
  this use shall comply with all business licensing requirements of the county,
  as applicable. Childcare, licensed family also includes child preschool
  providing instruction in a residence for 9 to 16 children unrelated to the
  licensee for less than 24 hours a day. See section
  10-18-3 of this title.
Childcare,
residential
certificate. The care
of children in the
residence of the
provider for 5 to 8
children and having a
regularly scheduled,
ongoing enrollment,
for direct or
indirect compensation
and licensed as
required by the laws
and rules of the
state of Utah. The
fire authority, as
applicable, shall
provide a fire
clearance and this    X    P-2   P-2    X   P-2    P-2 X   X
use shall comply with
all business
licensing
requirements of the
county, as
applicable.
Childcare,
residential
certificate also
includes child
preschool providing
instruction in a
residence for 5 to 8
children unrelated to
the licensee for less
than 24 hours a day.
See section
10-18-3 of this
title.
Church. A facility
primarily used for
people to gather for
worship, religious
training, or other
religious activities.
1 accessory dwelling
unit for the housing
of the pastor or      X    C-1   C-1    X   C-1    C-1 X   X
similar leader of the
church and their
family shall be
permitted as an
accessory use. See
section
10-18-5 of this
title.
Commercial daycare/
preschool center. A
facility, operated by
a person qualified
and licensed by the
state of Utah, which
provides children
with daycare and/or
preschool instruction
as a commercial
business and
complying with all
applicable state
standards and
licensing and having
regularly scheduled,
ongoing enrollment
for direct or
indirect compensation
that provides
childcare for less
than 24 hours per
day. Commercial
daycare/preschool
center excludes the
following: 1)
kindergartens or
nursery schools or
other daytime
programs operated by
public or private
elementary or
secondary schools or  X    X     X      X   X      C-2 X   X
institutions of
higher learning; 2)
facilities operated
in connection with a
fitness center,
shopping center or
other activity where
children are cared
for temporarily while
parents or custodians
of the children are
occupied on the
premises or are in
the immediate
vicinity and readily
available; or 3)
special activities or
programs, including
athletics, crafts
instruction and
similar activities,
conducted on a
periodic basis by
civic, charitable,
private, or
governmental
organizations; or 4)
clearly identified as
an accessory use. See
section
10-18-3 of this
title.
Commercial plant
nursery. A use wholly
or partially
contained and
conducted within 1 or
more greenhouses      C-1  C-1   X      C-1 X      X   X   C-1
where trees, shrubs,
flowers, or vegetable
plants are grown and
sold either retail or
wholesale.
Composting facility.
A facility where
organic materials are
converted into a
humuslike material
under a process of
managed biological
decomposition or      X    X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
mechanical processes.
Normal backyard
composting and
composting incidental
to agricultural
operations are
exempted from this
use.
Concrete batch plant.
A facility where
sand, gravel, cement,
water, and other
materials are turned
into concrete and may
be either a drum mix  X    X     X      X   X      X   C-2 C-2
plant or a batch
plant, and including
batchers and mixers
and accessory
materials storage and
equipment.
Construction and
contractor's sales
and services. An
establishment engaged
in the retail or
wholesale sale of
materials and
services used in the
construction of
buildings or other
structures, as well
as the outdoor
storage of
construction          X    X     X      C-1 X      C-1 P-2 P-2
equipment or
materials. Typical
uses include
lumberyards, home
improvement centers,
lawn and garden
supply stores,
construction
equipment sales and
rental, electrical,
plumbing, air
conditioning and
heating supply
stores.
Contractor's office/
contractor's storage
yard. A facility
providing building
construction and
maintenance,
including carpentry,
plumbing, roofing,
electrical, air       X    X     X      C-1 X      C-1 P-2 P-2
conditioning and
heating, within a
totally enclosed
building, and which
may include the open
storage of any
building materials,
equipment, or
vehicles.
Convenience store
(existing). A retail
establishment selling
consumer products
including prepackaged
food, drink, and      X    X     X      X   C-1    C-1 X   X
household items. A
convenience store may
also provide retail
sales of gasoline and
other petroleum
products.
Convenience store
(new). A retail
establishment selling
consumer products
including prepackaged
food, drink, and      X    X     X      X   X      C-1 X   X
household items. A
convenience store may
also provide retail
sales of gasoline and
other petroleum
products.
Correctional
facility. A public or
private facility
providing
confinement, housing, X    X     X      X   X      C-2 C-2 C-2
and care for
individuals legally
confined for
violations of the
law.
Distribution center.
A facility where the
storage and
distribution of goods
and materials occurs  X    X     X      X   X      C-1 C-1 C-1
which may include the
parking and storage
of distribution
vehicles, and
accessory activities.
Dwelling, four-family
(4-plex). A building
containing 4 dwelling
units, each unit
designed to be        X    X     X      X   X      X   X   X
occupied by 1 family.
See section
10-17-33 of this
title.
Dwelling,
manufactured home. A
transportable factory
built dwelling unit
constructed on or
after June 15, 1976,
according to the
federal home
construction and
safety standards act
of 1974 (HUD code),
in 1 or more
sections, which: 1)
in the traveling
mode, is 8 feet or
more in width or 40
feet or more in
length, or when
erected on site, is
400 or more square
feet; 2) is built on
a permanent chassis
and designed to be
used as a dwelling
with or without a     P-1  P-1   P-1    C-1 P-1    C-1 C-1 C-1
permanent foundation
when connected to the
required utilities;
3) includes plumbing,
heating, air
conditioning, and
electrical systems;
and 4) is identified
by the manufacturer's
data plate bearing
the date the unit was
manufactured and a
United States
department of housing
and urban development
(HUD) label attached
to the exterior of
the home certifying
the home was
manufactured to HUD
standards. See
sections
10-18-4 and
10-17-33 of this
title.
Dwelling, mobile home
(existing). A
transportable factory
built dwelling unit
built prior to June
15, 1976, in
accordance with a
state mobile home
code that existed
prior to the federal  P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 P-1    P-1 P-1 P-1
manufactured housing
and safety standards
act (HUD code) and
existing in the
zoning district prior
to the effective date
hereof. See section
10-17-33 of this
title.
Dwelling, multiple-
family. A building
containing 5 or more
dwelling units, each
unit designed to be   X    X     X      X   X      X   X   X
occupied by 1 family.
See section
10-17-33 of this
title.
Dwelling, single-
family3. A building
containing 1 dwelling
unit, the unit
designed to be        P-1  P-1   P-1    C-1 P-1    C-1 C-1 C-1
occupied by 1 family.
See section
10-17-33 of this
title.
Dwelling, single-
family (existing)3. A
building containing 1
dwelling unit, the
unit designed to be
occupied by 1 family  P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 P-1    P-1 P-1 P-1
and existing in the
zoning district prior
to the effective date
hereof. See section
10-17-33 of this
title.
Dwelling, three-
family. A building
containing 3 dwelling
units, each unit
designed to be        X    X     X      X   X      X   X   X
occupied by 1 family.
See section
10-17-33 of this
title.
Dwelling, two-family
(duplex). A building
containing 2 dwelling
units, each unit
designed to be        X    X     X      X   X      X   X   X
occupied by 1 family.
See section
10-17-33 of this
title.
Earth station. A
communication
facility that
transmits and/or
receives signals to   C-1  X     X      X   X      C-1 C-1 C-1
and from an orbiting
satellite using
satellite dish
antennas.
Educational facility.
Public schools,
including charter
schools, colleges or
universities
qualified by the
state of Utah board
of regents or state
of Utah board of
education to provide
academic instruction.
Privately owned       C-1  X     X      X   C-1    C-1 X   X
buildings and uses
for educational
activities that
offers a curriculum
similar to a public
school, college, or
university for
technical or
vocational training,
kindergarten,
elementary, secondary
or higher education.
Electric substation
(major). A power
regulating facility
designed to regulate
power for
distribution at
voltages of 140,000
volts (140 kV) or
greater and found by  C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
the county to conform
to the general plan,
or has been
considered by the
commission and the
BOCC has approved the
proposed location as
an amendment to the
general plan.
Electric substation
(minor). A power
regulating facility
designed to regulate
power for             C-1  C-1   C-1    C-1 X      X   C-1 C-1
distribution to
customers at voltages
less than 140,000
volts (140 kV).
Electric transmission
right of way (major).
A power transmission
right of way designed
to provide for the
location of electric
transmission lines
designed to operate
at voltages of
140,000 volts (140
kV), or greater, and
that may provide for
interstate power
transmission, or to   C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
provide power to
customers or areas
located outside of
the county and found
by the county to
conform to the
general plan, or has
been considered by
the commission and
the BOCC has approved
the proposed location
as an amendment to
the general plan.
Electric transmission
right of way (minor).
A power transmission
right of way designed
to provide for the
location of electric
transmission lines
designed to operate   C-1  C-1   C-1    C-1 C-1    C-1 C-1 C-1
at voltages of less
than 140,000 volts
(140 kV), and that
provides power
transmission to
customers or areas
located within the
county.
Electrical generating
facility. A device or
facility using fossil
fuels to generate
electrical energy by
spinning wire coils
in magnetic fields,
inducing an electric
potential in the
coil. Electrical
generating facility
does not include      X    X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
geothermal energy
system (major),
geothermal energy
system (minor), solar
energy system
(major), solar energy
system (minor), wind
energy system
(major), or wind
energy system
(minor).
Exotic animals and
poultry. Any
potentially dangerous
animal not typically
having its natural
habitat located in    X    X     X      X   X      X   X   X
central Utah and not
customarily confined
or cultivated by
humans for domestic
or commercial
purposes.
Forestry/forest
practice. As provided
by section 65A-8a-
102, Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, as
amended, means
activities directly
related to: 1) the
harvesting of trees;
2) new road
construction
associated with
harvesting or
accessing trees; 3)
site preparation for
regeneration of a
timber stand; 4)
reforestation; or 5)
the management of
logging slash, such
activities being
conducted and managed
under the authority
of the United States
forest service or the C-1  X     X      X   X      X   X   X
state of Utah
department of natural
resources, division
of forestry, fire,
and state lands.
Forestry/forest
practice does not
include: 1) the
operation of a
nursery or Christmas
tree farm; 2) the
harvest of Christmas
trees; 3) the harvest
of trees for the
noncommercial,
personal use by the
owner of forested
land from which the
trees are harvested;
or 4) a harvesting
operation
encompassing fewer
than 10 contiguous
acres of forested
land.
Gas pipeline right of
way (major). A right
of way designed to
provide for the
location of a gas
transmission pipeline
of 15 inches, or
larger, diameter and
that may provide for
interstate gas
transmission, or to
provide gas to        C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
customers or areas
located outside of
the county and found
by the county to
conform to the
general plan, or has
been considered by
the commission and
the BOCC has approved
the proposed location
as an amendment to
the general plan.
Gas pipeline right of
way (minor). A right
of way designed to
provide for the
location of a gas
transmission pipeline
of less than 15       C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
inches in diameter
and that provides gas
transmission to
customers or areas
located within the
county.
Geothermal energy
system (major). A
system or facility
using the thermal
energy resources of
the earth (geothermal
energy) to provide
mechanical or
electrical power or   C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   X
heating or cooling
systems for
commercial purposes
which may or may not
be located on the
same site as the
geothermal energy
system (major).
Geothermal energy
system (minor). A
system or facility
using the thermal
energy resources of
the earth (geothermal
energy) to provide
mechanical or         C-1  C-1   C-1    C-1 C-1    C-1 C-1 C-1
electrical power or
heating or cooling
systems for private,
noncommercial
purposes for use on
the same site as the
geothermal energy
system (minor).
Group home. See
residential facility
for persons with a
disability;
residential facility
for persons with a    X    X     X      X   X      X   X   X
disability that are
substance abuse
facilities and are
located within 500
feet of a school; and
therapeutic school.
Guest ranch. A
facility, including
either a single
building or resort
cabins, which serves
as a destination for
visitors and
generally has
accessory
recreational
facilities for the
use of guests. A
guest ranch shall     C-1  C-1   C-1    X   X      X   X   X
maintain the existing
agricultural or
farming operations. A
guest ranch shall not
be construed to
include a residential
facility for persons
with a disability, or
a therapeutic school.
See section
10-17-33 of this
title.
Home occupation
(major). A use or
activity conducted
within a dwelling,
accessory building,
or accessory garage
and carried out and
conducted without
changing the nature
of the zoning
district or creating
any nuisance to any
adjoining properties.
Home occupation
(major) shall be      P-2  P-2   P-2    P-2 P-2    X   X   X
conducted by the
persons residing in
the dwelling and a
maximum of 1 employee
who is not a family
member. Activities or
storage associated
with the home
occupation (major)
may occur outside of
the dwelling. See
section
10-18-2 of this
title.
Home occupation
(minor). A use or
activity conducted
entirely within a
dwelling and
conducted by the
person(s) residing in
the dwelling. No
outside help or
assistance shall be
allowed and the home
occupation (minor)    P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 P-1    X   X   X
shall not involve the
use of any accessory
building, garage, or
yard space, outside
of the dwelling for
any activity or
storage associated
with the home
occupation (minor).
See section
10-18-2 of this
title.
Hotel/motel. A
building or group of
buildings, other than
a boarding house or
lodging house,
containing individual
guest rooms and which
furnishes services
customarily provided  X    X     X      X   X      C-2 X   X
by hotels or motels
which may include a
restaurant,
recreational
facilities, reception
area(s) and
convention
facilities.
Industrial/
manufacturing
activity (general). A
manufacturing
operation or
processing and
assembly of goods
including personal
hygiene products and
cosmetics, drugs and
pharmaceuticals,
tools, equipment and
products and which
are not likely to be
obnoxious or
offensive by reason   X    X     X      C-1 X      X   C-2 C-2
of emission of odor,
dust, smoke, noxious
gases, noise,
vibration, glare,
heat or other
impacts, nor
hazardous by way of
materials, process,
product or waste.
This use does not
include agricultural
products processing.
See agricultural
products processing
of this table.
Industrial/
manufacturing
activity (light).
Places for the
conduct of light
manufacturing and
assembly activities
which are compatible
with existing and
other uses allowed in
the zoning district
and which will not be
offensive by reason
of emission of odor,
dust, smoke, noxious
gases, noise,
vibration, glare,     X    X     X      X   X      X   C-1 C-1
heat or other
impacts, nor
hazardous by way of
materials, process,
product or waste, and
where all equipment,
machinery, and other
ancillary equipment
is located within a
building or structure
and where any outside
storage areas are
screened from view
from all adjoining
properties, roads and
streets.
Kennel (commercial).
Any premises or
establishment where 4
or more dogs, older
than 4 months, are
kept for the purpose  C-1  C-1   X      C-1 X      X   C-1 C-1
of boarding,
breeding, raising or
training dogs as a
commercial activity
for a fee or other
form of remuneration.
Kennel (hobby). The
keeping of up to 3
dogs. This use does   P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 P-1    P-1 P-1 P-1
not require any land
use approvals or
permits.
Kennel
(noncommercial). Any
premises or
establishment where 4
or more dogs, older
than 4 months, are    C-1  C-1   X      C-1 X      X   C-1 C-1
kept for the purpose
of boarding,
breeding, raising or
training dogs on a
not for profit basis.
Landfill. An area of
land where solid
waste is disposed of
using sanitary land
filling techniques,
including, but not
limited to, an
engineered method of
disposing of solid
waste on land in a
manner that does not  C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
create a nuisance or
health hazard and
found by the county
to conform to the
general plan, or has
been considered by
the commission and
the BOCC has approved
the proposed location
as an amendment to
the general plan.
Liquor store (state
owned). An
establishment owned
and operated by the   X    X     X      X   X      C-2 X   X
state of Utah and
primarily engaged in
the sale of alcoholic
beverages.
Livestock auction
facility. A
structure, or
structures, with
associated pens,      C-1  C-1   X      X   X      X   C-1 C-1
yards, corrals and
loading and unloading
facilities used for
the sale of
livestock.
Meat or poultry
processing facility.
A facility for the
commercial processing
of meat and poultry
for human
consumption,          C-2  C-2   X      C-2 X      X   C-2 C-2
including, but not
limited to, the
slaughtering,
butchering, cutting,
dressing and
packaging of meat and
poultry products.
Meteorological
station. A facility
or location where
meteorological data
is gathered and
recorded. The         P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 X      X   P-1 P-1
facility/system may
report data gathered
in real time or save
the data for later
recovery.
Mining (subsurface).
The extraction of
naturally occurring
mineral deposits by   C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
underground methods,
including the milling
and processing of
such deposits.
Mining (surface). The
extraction of
naturally occurring
mineral deposits by
mining directly from
the ground surface,
including such
processes as open pit C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
mining, strip mining,
gravel pits,
quarrying and
dredging and
associated processing
including crushing
and washing.
Mortuary (funeral
home). A facility
where bodies are
prepared for burial
or cremation, which
may include areas for
embalming, performing
autopsies, and the    C-1  X     X      X   C-1    C-1 X   X
storage for
associated vehicles
and supplies. This
use may also provide
a chapel or other
area for the conduct
of funeral services.
Natural or
manufactured gas
storage. A facility
providing for the
storage or natural or
manufactured gas and
directly related
products and          X    X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
including necessary
accessory structures
and including on site
pipelines,
compression, storage,
distribution and
maintenance
facilities.
Nursing home
(convalescent care)
facility. A facility
that provides 24 hour
residential care to
persons who are not
related by blood,
marriage or adoption
to the owner,
operator or manager
of the facility. A    X    X     X      X   C-1    C-1 X   X
nursing home
(convalescent care)
facility provides
some level of skilled
nursing or medical
service to the
residents. See
section
10-17-33 of this
title.
Outdoor youth
program. A program
designed to provide
behavioral, substance
abuse, or mental
health services to
minors that: 1)
serves adjudicated or
nonadjudicated youth;
2) charges a fee for
its services; 3) may
or may not limit or   C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   X
censor access to
parents or guardians;
4) may prohibit or
restrict a minor's
ability to leave the
program at any time
of the minor's own
free will; and 5)
provides its services
in an outdoor
setting.
Petroleum pipeline
right of way (major).
A right of way
designed to provide
for the location of a
petroleum or oil
transmission pipeline
of 4 inches, or
larger, in diameter
and that may provide
for interstate
petroleum or oil
transmission, or to   C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
provide petroleum or
oil to customers or
areas located outside
of the county and
found by the county
to conform to the
general plan, or has
been considered by
the commission and
the BOCC has approved
the proposed location
as an amendment to
the general plan.
Petroleum pipeline
right of way (minor).
A right of way
designed to provide
for the location of
petroleum or oil
transmission pipeline C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
of less than 4 inches
in diameter and that
provides petroleum or
oil to customers or
areas located within
the county.
Public use. A use
operated exclusively
by a public body, or
quasi-public body,
such use having the
purpose of serving
the public health,
safety, or general
welfare, and
including, but not
limited to, parks,
recreational
facilities,
administrative and
service offices and
facilities, and
public utilities, and
found by the
commission to conform
to the general plan,
or has been
considered by the     C-2  C-2   C-2    C-2 C-2    C-2 C-2 C-2
commission and the
board of county
commissioners has
approved the proposed
location and/or
public use as an
amendment to the
general plan. Public
uses do not include
an animal control
facility, landfill,
water treatment
plant, sewer
treatment plant,
airport, heliport,
correctional
facility, or liquor
store (state owned).
See section
10-17-3 of this
title.
Public utility. A
water, sewer,
telephone, cable
television, power, or
other utility
facility, which is
located underground
and buried beneath
the surface or
located above the
surface of the ground
and found by the
county to conform to
the general plan, or
has been considered
by the commission and
the BOCC has approved
the proposed location
as an amendment to
the general plan.     C-2  C-2   C-2    C-2 C-2    C-2 C-2 C-2
Public utility does
not include electric
transmission right of
way (major) or
(minor), electric
generating facility,
electric substation
(major) or (minor),
gas pipeline right of
way (major) or
(minor), natural or
manufactured gas
storage, petroleum
pipeline right of way
(major) or (minor),
or wind energy system
(major) or (minor).
See section
10-17-3 of this
title.
Recreation (outdoor).
An area or facility
that offers
entertainment or
recreation and may
include, as accessory
uses, associated
eating and drinking
areas, retail sales
areas and staff
offices, and
maintenance
facilities. This use
may include a golf
course, miniature
golf facility, and    P-2  P-2   C-2    P-2 X      C-1 P-2 P-2
facilities for
equestrian related
activities including
riding arena, and
rodeo arena. This use
also includes
shooting range, go-
cart, motor vehicle
and/or motorbike
tracks, or similar
activities that may
create noise, dust,
or other impacts to
adjoining properties
and uses.
Recycling center. A
facility where
recyclable materials
are collected, stored
and processed.
Processing includes   X    X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
baling, briquetting,
compacting,
flattening, crushing,
mechanical sorting,
shredding, and
cleaning.
Residential facility
for elderly persons.
A single-family or
multiple-family
dwelling unit that
meets the
requirements of
section
10-18-12 of this
title and section 17-
27a-515 Utah Code
Annotated, as
amended, but does not
include a healthcare
facility as defined   P-1  P-1   P-14   X   P-14   X   X   X
by section 26-21-2,
Utah Code Annotated,
as amended. "Elderly
person" means a
person who is 60
years old or older,
who desires or needs
to live with other
elderly persons in a
group setting, but
who is capable of
living independently.
See section
10-17-33 of this
title.
Residential facility
for persons with a
disability. A
residence in which
more than 1 person
with a disability
resides and is
licensed or certified
by the department of
human services under
title 62A, chapter 2,
Utah Code Annotated
licensure of programs
and facilities; or is
licensed or certified
by the department of  P-14 P-14  P-14,5 X   P-14,5 X   X   X
health under title
26, chapter 21, Utah
Code Annotated health
care facility
licensing and
inspection act. See
definition of
disability. See
sections
10-18-13,
"Residential
Facilities For
Persons With A
Disability", and
10-17-33 of this
title.
Residential facility
for persons with a
disability that are
substance abuse
facilities and are
located within 500
feet of a school. A
residence located
within 500 feet of a
school and in which
more than 1 person
with a disability
resides; and is
licensed or certified
by the department of
human services under
title 62A, chapter 2,
Utah Code Annotated
licensure of programs
and facilities; or is
licensed or certified
by the department of
health under title    P-24 P-24  P-24,5 X   P-24,5 X   X   X
26, chapter 21, Utah
Code Annotated health
care facility
licensing and
inspection act. See
definition of
disability (pursuant
to section 57-21-2(9)
(b) Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, as
amended). Disability
does not include
current illegal use
of, or addiction to
any federally
controlled substance,
as defined in section
102 of the controlled
substances act, 21
USC 802. See sections
10-18-14 and
10-17-33 of this
title.
Resort. A facility
which serves as a
destination for
guests and generally
provides recreational
or personal
development
facilities and may
include both on site
and off site
activities and
services including
food, overnight       C-1  C-1   X      X   X      X   X   X
lodging, equipment
rentals,
entertainment and
other conveniences
for guests of the
resort. Guest
residency is limited
to no longer than 60
calendar days. See
section
10-17-33 of this
title.
Restaurant. A
business where a
variety of food and
drink is prepared and X    X     X      X   X      P-2 X   X
served for
consumption either on
or off the premises.
Retail store. An
establishment
providing retail
sales of merchandise
including a grocery,
hardware, department  X    X     X      X   P-2    P-2 P-2 P-2
store, furniture,
pharmacy, or other
retail sales
activities on a for
profit or not for
profit basis.
Salvage yard. The use
of any lot, portion
of a lot, or land for
the commercial
storage, keeping or
abandonment of junk,
including scrap
metals or other scrap
material, for the
dismantling,          X    X     X      X   X      X   X   C-2
demolition or
abandonment of
automobiles or other
vehicles or machinery
and where the parts
of vehicles and
machinery may be sold
(wholesale or
retail).
Seasonal use. A use
offering goods,
services, or
conducting an
activity for a
limited duration of
time, but in no case
existing longer than
120 calendar days.    C-1  C-1   C-1    C-1 C-1    P-1 P-1 P-1
Such uses may include
fireworks stands,
fruit or vegetable
stands, beverage or
snow cone vendors,
Christmas tree lots,
corn mazes, holiday
boutiques, and
similar activities.
Sexually oriented
business or activity.
A use or facility
providing adult and/
or sexually oriented
activities and
entertainment,
including, but not
limited to, adult
arcade, adult
bookstore, adult      X    X     X      X   X      X   C-2 C-2
novelty store, adult
video store, adult
cabaret, adult motel,
adult motion picture
theater, adult
theater, or nude or
seminude model
studio. See section
10-18-21 of this
title.
Sign, billboard. A
freestanding ground
sign located on
industrial,
commercial, or
residential property
and designed or
intended to direct    X    X     X      X   X      X   X   X
attention to a
business, product, or
service that is not
sold, offered, or
existing on the
property where the
sign is located.
Sign, on premises
canopy. A sign
attached to, or
included in the
construction of a
canopy, which may be
located over a fuel
island or drive-
through and only      X    X     X      X   X      P-1 P-1 P-1
permitted at the
location of the
activity, business,
or service connected
with the message of
the sign. See section
10-9-17, table
10-9-2 of this title.
Sign, on premises
freestanding,
monument. A sign
constructed and
attached directly to
the ground by a
foundation and only
permitted at the      X    X     X      X   X      C-1 C-1 C-1
location of the
activity, business,
or service connected
with the message of
the sign. See section
10-9-17, table
10-9-2 of this title.
Sign, on premises
freestanding, pylon.
A sign attached to
the ground or a
foundation with a
pole, or poles, and
only permitted at the X    X     X      X   X      C-1 C-1 C-1
location of the
activity, business,
or service connected
with the message of
the sign. See section
10-9-17, table
10-9-2 of this title.
Sign, on premises
wall. A sign
displayed or attached
against the wall of a
building, where the
exposed face of the
sign is parallel to
the wall and extends
not more than 12
inches horizontally   X    X     X      X   X      P-2 P-2 P-2
from the face of the
wall and only
permitted at the
location of the
activity, business,
or service connected
with the message of
the sign. See section
10-9-17, table
10-9-2 of this title.
Sign, small on        Allowed in all zoning districts without land use
premises; sign,       authority approval provided all standards and
freestanding          requirements of section
directional; and      10-9-17, table
sign, temporary.      10-9-2 of this title are met.
Solar energy system
(major). A system or
facility using the
energy of the sun
(solar energy) to     C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   X
provide mechanical or
electrical power or
heating or cooling
systems for
commercial purposes.
Solar energy system
(minor). A system or
facility using the
energy sun (solar
energy) to provide
mechanical or         C-1  C-1   C-1    C-1 C-1    C-1 C-1 C-1
electrical power or
heating or cooling
systems for private,
noncommercial
purposes.
Special event. An
activity established
for a maximum period
of 21 calendar days,  P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 P-1    P-1 P-1 P-1
such event being
discontinued after
the expiration of 21
calendar days.
Special use. A use
established to meet a
particular need or
activity for a
specific period, but
not to exceed 360
days, and conducted
in compliance with    P-2  P-2   P-2    P-2 P-2    P-2 P-2 P-2
all the requirements
of this title, such
use being
discontinued and
completely removed
after the expiration
of the specific
period.
Storage, hazardous
materials. The
storage of goods or
product of a
hazardous or          C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   X
explosive nature and
typically regulated
by federal, state, or
local rules for
storage and use.
Storage, ministorage.
A facility for the
storage of personal
items in individual
units and leased to
persons exclusively   C-1  X     X      X   X      C-1 P-2 P-2
for storage of their
household goods or
personal property.
All units must be
contained within a
permanent structure.
Storage, open/
outdoor. The storage
of goods or product
in an open,
unenclosed area,
including, but not
limited to,
automotive, truck,
recreational vehicle,
trailer, and
manufactured home
sales lots, repair    C-1  X     X      X   X      X   X   C-1
yards, open storage
areas, and all
similar outside
display and storage
areas of goods,
materials, equipment,
and vehicles and not
associated with any
other use or as an
accessory use to an
approved use.
Storage, wholesale
and warehousing. An
establishment that is
primarily engaged in
the storage and sale
of goods to other
firms for resale, as
well as activities
involving significant X    X     X      X   X      C-1 C-1 C-1
movement and storage
of products or
equipment. Uses
include major mail
distribution centers,
moving and storage
firms, and
warehousing and
storage facilities.
Swimming pool. An
artificial body of
water having a depth
in excess of 24
inches and a water
surface area greater
than 50 square feet,  P-2  P-2   P-2    X   P-2    P-2 X   X
designed, constructed
and used for
swimming, dipping or
immersion purposes by
men, women or
children.
Temporary
construction office.
A structure used for
a maximum period not
to exceed 12 months
as a construction
office associated     P-2  P-2   P-2    P-2 P-2    P-2 P-2 P-2
with construction for
an approved use as
allowed and permitted
by this title and the
building codes, as
applicable.
Temporary dwelling
unit. A structure
used as a dwelling
unit for a maximum
period not to exceed
180 calendar days,
for use by the owner,
during the            P-2  P-2   P-2    P-2 P-2    P-2 P-2 P-2
construction or
remodeling of the
permanent dwelling
unit as allowed and
permitted by this
title and the
building codes, as
applicable.
Temporary use. A
special event or use
proposed to be
established for a
maximum period of 90
days, such event, or
use being
discontinued after
the expiration of 90
days, and conducted
in compliance with
all the requirements
of this title. Such
uses may include, but
are not limited to,
seasonal commercial
activities, including
Christmas tree lots   P-1  P-1   P-1    P-1 P-1    P-1 P-1 P-1
and snow cone shacks,
nonprofit fundraising
activities, organized
events, educational,
historic, religious
and patriotic
displays or exhibits,
including athletic or
recreational events,
festivals, arts and
crafts fairs, and
other organized
events. All family
gatherings shall be
exempt from the
requirements of a
temporary use
application approval.
Tennis court/sports
court. An improved
area used for the
playing of tennis or
other sports          P-2  P-2   P-2    X   P-2    P-2 X   X
activities,
including, but not
limited to,
basketball and
volleyball.
Therapeutic school. A
residential group
living facility for 4
or more individuals
who are not related
to: 1) the owner of
the facility; or 2)
the primary service
provider of the
facility; and that
serves students who
have a history of
failing to function:
1) at home; 2) in a
public school; or 3)
in a nonresidential
private school; and
that offers: 1) room
and board; and 2) an  C-1  C-1   C-16   X   C-16   X   X   X
academic education
integrated with: a)
specialized structure
and supervision; or
b) services or
treatment related to
a disability, an
emotional
development, a
behavioral
development, a
familial development,
or a social
development. See
sections
10-18-15 and
10-17-33 of this
title.
Vehicle and equipment
rental or sale, new
or used. An
establishment engaged
or licensed to engage
in the business of
buying, selling, or
exchanging new or
used vehicles,
vessels, or outboard
motors either
outright or on
conditional sale,
bailment, lease,
chattel mortgage, or
otherwise or who has
an established place
of business for the   X    X     X      X   X      C-1 C-1 P-2
sale, lease, trade,
or display of
vehicles, vessels, or
outboard motors.
Typical uses include
new and used truck
sales and rental,
boat sales,
recreational
vehicles,
construction
equipment rental
yards, moving truck
and trailer rental,
and farm equipment
and machinery sales
and rental.
Vehicle and equipment
service and repair.
An establishment
primarily engaged in
the repair and
maintenance of motor
vehicles and/or light
and heavy equipment,
including auto body
repairs, installation
of accessories and
transmission and      X    X     X      X   X      C-1 C-1 P-2
engine rebuilding
services, farm
equipment repair,
paint, and body
shops, tune ups,
brake repairs,
generator and starter
repairs, tire repairs
and installation,
front end alignments,
and lubrication
services.
Veterinary clinic. A
facility for the
diagnosis, treatment,
hospitalization, and
care of domesticated  X    X     X      P-2 X      C-1 P-2 P-2
animals and pets.
Such facility may
include animal
holding and boarding
facilities.
Wind energy system
(major). A wind
energy conversion
system consisting of
1 or more wind
turbine(s) and tower
(s) and associated
control and/or
conversion
electronics and
providing wind        C-2  X     X      X   X      X   X   X
generated electrical
power to be used
primarily for off
site consumption and
having a rated
capacity of more than
20 kilowatts. See
section
10-18-22 of this
title.
                                                           C-1Wir eless teleco
                                                           mmuni cations site/
                                                           fac ility. A
                                                           facility used for
                                                           the transm ission or
                                                           recepti on of
                                                           electro magne tic or
                                                           electr o-optic
                                                           inform ation,
                                                           includi ng wireles s
                                                           teleco mmuni cations
                                                           facilitie s such as
                                                           "cellula r" or "PCS"
                                                           (perso nal comm
                                                           unicati ons system
                                                           s) communication and
Wind energy system                                         paging systems. This
(minor). A wind                                            use is not required
energy conversion                                          to be located on a
system consisting of                                       separate lot or to
1 wind turbine and                                         comply with the
tower and associated                                       minimum lot size
control and/or                                             requirement for the
conversion                                                 district in which it
electronics which                                          is located but is
have a rated capacity C-1  C-1   C-1    C-1 C-1    C-1 C-1 required to meet the
of less than 20                                            design and
kilowatts and                                              locational
providing wind                                             requirements, as
generated electrical                                       established for such
power to be used for                                       uses, as provided by
on site consumption.                                       this title.
See section                                                Telecommunications
10-18-23 of this                                           site/facility does
title.                                                     not include radio
                                                           antennas complying
                                                           with the ruling of
                                                           the federal
                                                           communications
                                                           commission in
                                                           "amateur radio
                                                           preemption, 101 FCC
                                                           2nd 952 (1985)" or a
                                                           regulation related
                                                           to amateur radio
                                                           service adopted
                                                           under 47 CFR part
                                                           97. See section
                                                           10-18-18 of this
                                                           title.C-1C-1C-1C-
                                                           1XC-1C-1C-1
 
Notes:
   1.    Allowed only as an accessory dwelling unit for an employee.
   2.    All uses proposed on federal or state owned lands must comply with all
requirements of the federal or state agency with the responsibility and
authority to manage such lands.
   3.    Single-family shall be interpreted to include a maximum of 4 unrelated
individuals occupying a dwelling unit in a zone permitting occupancy by a
single family.
   4.    Must be found to be proposed in a similar residential dwelling as
allowed in the zoning district.
   5.    Shall not be located closer than 1,000 feet from any other residential
facility for persons with a disability, as measured from the closest property
line to the closest property line.
   6.    Shall not be located closer than 1,000 feet from any other therapeutic
school, as measured from the closest property line to the closest property
line.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012; amd. Ord. 13-10-01, 10-1-2013)
10-25-2: APPENDIX B-1, DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR PRIMARY BUILDINGS AND
STRUCTURES:
Development Standard RF AG-20 AG AI R1 HC LI HI
Development RF        AG-20     AG        AI        R1   HC        LI        HI
Standard
Site plan   As required by the land use authority and sufficient to demonstrate
            compliance with all land use ordinances
            All buildings and structures shall be constructed in compliance with all
            requirements of all land use ordinances and the building code, as adopted
Lot         and as applicable. All buildings and structures shall be located on and
standards   permanently attached to a site built permanent foundation that meets the
            building code, as adopted. All buildings and structures shall be located
            on a legally created lot or parcel and be able to receive required
            services and accommodate necessary setback requirements
                                          As             As        As        As
                                          required       required  required  required
                                          by the         by the    by the    by the
Minimum lot 20 acres  20 acres  1 acre    land use  1    land use  land use  land use
size                                      authority acre authority authority authority
                                          for site       for site  for site  for site
                                          plan           plan      plan      plan
                                          approval       approval  approval  approval
                                          As             As        As        As
                                          required       required  required  required
                                          by the         by the    by the    by the
Minimum lot 200 feet  200 feet  150 feet  land use  150  land use  land use  land use
width                                     authority feet authority authority authority
                                          for site       for site  for site  for site
                                          plan           plan      plan      plan
                                          approval       approval  approval  approval
                                          As             As        As        As
                                          required       required  required  required
                                          by the         by the    by the    by the
Minimum     35 feet   35 feet   35 feet   land use  25   land use  land use  land use
front yard                                authority feet authority authority authority
                                          for site       for site  for site  for site
                                          plan           plan      plan      plan
                                          approval       approval  approval  approval
                                          As             As        As        As
                                          required       required  required  required
                                          by the         by the    by the    by the
Minimum     30 feet   30 feet   15 feet   land use  15   land use  land use  land use
side yard                                 authority feet authority authority authority
                                          for site       for site  for site  for site
                                          plan           plan      plan      plan
                                          approval       approval  approval  approval
                                          As             As        As        As
                                          required       required  required  required
                                          by the         by the    by the    by the
Minimum     40 feet   40 feet   40 feet   land use  40   land use  land use  land use
rear yard                                 authority feet authority authority authority
                                          for site       for site  for site  for site
                                          plan           plan      plan      plan
                                          approval       approval  approval  approval
            As        As        As        As             As        As        As
            required  required  required  required       required  required  required
Maximum     by the    by the    by the    by the         by the    by the    by the
building    land use  land use  land use  land use  30   land use  land use  land use
height      authority authority authority authority feet authority authority authority
            for site  for site  for site  for site       for site  for site  for site
            plan      plan      plan      plan           plan      plan      plan
            approval1 approval1 approval1 approval1      approval1 approval1 approval1
Culinary
water and   Approval of feasibility from culinary water authority and sanitary sewer
sanitary    authority, as applicable
sewage
systems
Fire        As recommended by fire authority, as applicable
protection
Clear view  As required by the land use authority, as applicable for site plan
areas       approval
 
Note:
    1.    It is unlawful to construct, build or establish any building,
structure, tree, or any other appurtenance which may constitute a hazard or
obstruction to the safe navigation, landing and takeoff of an aircraft at a
publicly used airport as determined by FAA regulations.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
10-25-3: APPENDIX B-2, DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS
AND
          STRUCTURES:
Development Standard RF AG-20 AG AI R1 HC LI HI
Development RF        AG-20     AG        AI        R1   HC        LI        HI
Standard
Site plan   As required by the land use authority and sufficient to demonstrate
            compliance with all land use ordinances
            All accessory buildings and structures shall be constructed in compliance
Lot         with all requirements of all land use ordinances and the building code, as
standards   adopted and as applicable. All buildings and structures shall be located
            on a legally created lot or parcel and be able to receive required
            services and accommodate necessary setback requirements
                                          As             As        As        As
                                          required       required  required  required
                                          by the         by the    by the    by the
Minimum lot 20 acres  20 acres  1 acre    land use  1    land use  land use  land use
size                                      authority acre authority authority authority
                                          for site       for site  for site  for site
                                          plan           plan      plan      plan
                                          approval       approval  approval  approval
                                          As             As        As        As
                                          required       required  required  required
                                          by the         by the    by the    by the
Minimum lot 200 feet  200 feet  150 feet  land use  150  land use  land use  land use
width                                     authority feet authority authority authority
                                          for site       for site  for site  for site
                                          plan           plan      plan      plan
                                          approval       approval  approval  approval
                                          As             As        As        As
                                          required       required  required  required
                                          by the         by the    by the    by the
Minimum     35 feet   35 feet   35 feet   land use  25   land use  land use  land use
front yard                                authority feet authority authority authority
                                          for site       for site  for site  for site
                                          plan           plan      plan      plan
                                          approval       approval  approval  approval
                                          As             As        As        As
                                          required       required  required  required
                                          by the         by the    by the    by the
Minimum     12 feet   12 feet   12 feet   land use  12   land use  land use  land use
side yard                                 authority feet authority authority authority
                                          for site       for site  for site  for site
                                          plan           plan      plan      plan
                                          approval       approval  approval  approval
                                          As             As        As        As
                                          required       required  required  required
                                          by the         by the    by the    by the
Minimum     12 feet   12 feet   12 feet   land use  12   land use  land use  land use
rear yard                                 authority feet authority authority authority
                                          for site       for site  for site  for site
                                          plan           plan      plan      plan
                                          approval       approval  approval  approval
            As        As        As        As             As        As        As
            required  required  required  required       required  required  required
Maximum     by the    by the    by the    by the         by the    by the    by the
building    land use  land use  land use  land use  30   land use  land use  land use
height      authority authority authority authority feet authority authority authority
            for site  for site  for site  for site       for site  for site  for site
            plan      plan      plan      plan           plan      plan      plan
            approval1 approval1 approval1 approval1      approval1 approval1 approval1
Culinary
water and   Approval of feasibility from culinary water authority and sanitary sewer
sanitary    authority, as applicable
sewage
systems
Fire        As recommended by fire authority, as applicable
protection
Clear view  As required by the land use authority, as applicable for site plan
areas       approval
 
Note:
    1.    It is unlawful to construct, build or establish any building,
structure, tree, or any other appurtenance which may constitute a hazard or
obstruction to the safe navigation, landing and takeoff of an aircraft at a
publicly used airport as determined by FAA regulations.
(Ord. 12-12-04, 12-4-2012)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: County Policy
11-1-3: Purposes
11-1-4: Definitions
11-1-5: Compliance With Provisions; Plans And Plats Required
11-1-6: Fee
11-1-7: Hardship Variance
11-1-8: Exemptions From Provisions
11-1-9: Violation; Penalty
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the MILLARD COUNTY SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS. (Ord.
01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
11-1-2: COUNTY POLICY:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the county to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the land or amendment of
a subdivision plat, or the adjustment of lot lines therein, as subject to the
control of the county for the orderly, planned, efficient, and economical
development of the county. Land to be subdivided or resubdivided, or have lot
lines adjusted therein, shall be of such character that it can be used safely
for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood,
landslide, subsidence, geologic hazards or other menace. It is further declared
to be the policy of the county that land shall not be subdivided, resubdivided
or adjusted until appropriate public or private facilities and improvements
exist and proper provision has been made for drainage, water, sewerage, power,
gas, and other necessary public improvements.
   B.   Except for nonplat subdivisions which meet all the requirements of
chapter 3 of this title, all subdivisions containing four (4) or more lots will
be subject to the planned unit development requirements.
   C.   Existing and proposed public improvements shall conform and be properly
related to the provisions of the county master plan, the county zoning
ordinance, transportation/streets plan, and other applicable county plans as
adopted. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
   D.   It is intended that this title shall supplement and facilitate the
enforcement of the provisions and standards of the adopted building code, the
county zoning ordinances and zoning maps, and the county master plan. (Ord. 01-
08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001; amd. 2005 Code)
11-1-3: PURPOSES:
The purposes of this title are to:
   A.   Avail the county of the power granted under Utah Code Annotated title
17, chapter 27, pertaining to land development and subdivision to provide for
the health, safety, and welfare, and promote the prosperity, improve the
morals, peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of the
county and its present and future inhabitants and businesses.
   B.   Protect the tax base, secure economy in governmental expenditures,
foster agricultural and other industries, protect both urban and nonurban
development, and protect property values.
   C.   Guide the future growth and development of the county in accordance
with the master plan.
   D.   Preserve and protect, to the maximum extent possible, unique and
valuable natural and cultural resources and amenities of the county, and
improve the public access to and enjoyment of these resources.
   E.   Preserve and protect the environmental and aesthetic character of
undeveloped areas of the county by preventing detrimental impacts to soil,
vegetation, and drainage through the control of grading and vegetation removal.
   F.   Provide for the efficient and economical delivery of public services
through encouraging development to take place adjacent or close to incorporated
areas.
   G.   Ensure that all required public and private facilities are provided,
and that the burden of installation and maintenance of required improvements is
borne by those benefitting from the development, and ensure that appropriate
provision is made, through a homeowners' association, performance bonding,
special districts, or by other means, for completion of all required
improvements. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
11-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used in the interpretation and construction
of this chapter:
   A.   Words used in the present tense include the future; singular in number
shall include the plural and the plural the singular.
   B.   The word "building" shall include the word structure.
   C.   The word "use" or "occupied" shall include arranged, designed,
constructed, altered, converted, rented, leased or intended to be used or
occupied.
   D.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not directive, and the word "may" is
permissive.
   E.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
ALLEY: A public accessway, less than sixteen feet (16') wide, which is designed
to give access to lots of abutting properties. An "alley" shall not be
considered a street for the purpose of this chapter.
BLOCK: The land surrounded by streets or other rights of way other than an
alley, or land which is designated as a block on any approved and recorded
subdivision plat.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street designed to remain permanently closed at one end, with the
closed end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or portion thereof which contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation,
not more than one family, and excluding tent, camper, travel trailer, fifth
wheel, hotel, motel or nursing home.
EASEMENT: That portion of a lot or lots reserved for present or future use by a
person or agency other than the legal owners of said property. An "easement"
may be for use under, on, or above said lot or lots.
LOT: A discrete parcel of land described and placed on record, either by
recordation of a subdivision plat or by deed, in accordance with the provisions
of this title.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
LOT, FLAG: A lot which does not abut a public right of way, but which has a
right of access to a public right of way from a private road or driveway (the
lot right of way).
LOT PLAN: A map of a lot, drawn to scale, showing its actual measurements, the
size and location of existing buildings and buildings to be erected, the
location of the lot in relation to abutting streets, natural features such as
water bodies and topographic features, and such other information as may be
required by the planning commission.
LOT, RESTRICTED: A lot having an average slope of twenty five percent (25%) or
more. In order to qualify as a legal subdivision lot, the lot must contain a
natural, ungraded buildable area, a minimum of seven thousand five hundred
(7,500) square feet in area, with an average slope of less than twenty five
percent (25%). The buildable area of restricted lots must be shown on the
subdivision plat. All structures on a restricted lot must be located within the
buildable area. No removal of vegetation or soil grading or other surface
disturbing activities will be allowed outside the designated buildable area,
except for that necessary for the construction of driveways and installation of
utilities.
LOT RIGHT OF WAY: A documented right of way over a strip of land not less than
twenty eight feet (28') in width connecting a lot to a public street for use as
access to the lot.
OPEN SPACE: An area reserved for parks, greenbelts, paths, trails, natural
areas, courts, playgrounds, golf courses, playing fields, underground
utilities, and other similar uses which may be approved by the planning
commission and county commissioners.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way designed for pedestrian use and not allowed for
use by motor vehicles of any kind.
PERFORMANCE BOND: Surety in the form of cash, a letter of credit, commercial
bond or other form approved by the county attorney held by Millard County to
assure that required improvements in a subdivision will be completed as
approved in the event a developer defaults in his obligation to install
required improvements.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): Land under unified control, planned and
developed as a whole, in a single development operation or a definitely
programmed series of development operations, for uses compatible with the
character of the zone district in which it is located. A "PUD" will include a
program for the provision, operation and maintenance of areas, improvements,
facilities, and services as will be for common use by some or all of the
occupants of the "PUD", but which will not be provided, operated or maintained
at general public expense.
PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The county official, or his duly authorized
representative, charged with the administration and enforcement of this title.
PLAT, FINAL: A drawing to scale depicting the features of a subdivision,
resubdivision, or lot split showing the contour of the land; all lots and
blocks numbered consecutively; streets, utilities and all other required on
site improvements; the certification of a registered land surveyor; signature
blocks for the county attorney, county engineer, planning commission, and
county commissioners; which meets the final plat requirements of this title and
which is ready for recordation with the county recorder.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A drawing to scale depicting the features of a proposed
subdivision, resubdivision or lot split which meets the preliminary plat
requirements of this title.
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS: Facilities or utilities required to be installed or
constructed in subdivision as a condition of subdivision approval. These
improvements may include, but are not limited to: streets and roads; water
systems; sewer system; fire hydrants; drainage system; lighting; curb, gutter,
and sidewalks; and such other improvements as may be required by this title.
RESUBDIVISION: The division or partition of any lot, block or other land within
an approved and recorded subdivision plat, or within an area that has been
approved by the county for subdivision without recordation of a plat.
SERVICE DISTRICT: A special district established in the manner provided by Utah
Code Annotated title 17A, under article XIV, section 8 of the constitution of
the state of Utah.
SKETCH PLAN: A generalized layout of a proposed subdivision with accompanying
general description of the features of the subdivision and relating the
proposed subdivision to its geographic area; topography and natural features;
streets and roads; public and private utilities; other facilities and services;
and to any special physical conditions which may exist in that area.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street, existing or proposed, of considerable continuity
which is the main means of access to the major street system.
STREET, FRONTAGE (Also FRONTAGE ROAD): A minor street, parallel and adjacent to
a limited access major street, which provides access to abutting properties
from, and protection from the through traffic on, the major street.
STREET, MAJOR: A street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to
serve primarily through traffic, and is designated on the master plan as a
controlled access highway, major street, parkway, or other equivalent term.
STREET, MINOR: A street, existing or proposed, which is supplementary to a
collector street and of limited continuity, which serves or is intended to
serve the local needs of the neighborhood and provides primary access to
abutting properties.
STREET, PUBLIC: A public thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to
the public and accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare not less
than twenty eight feet (28') wide which has been accepted by the public and
which affords the principal access to abutting property.
STREET RIGHT OF WAY: The land dedicated to public use for streets, shoulders,
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, park strips, and related uses, including utilities.
SUBDIVISION: A. Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be
divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other
division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
lease or development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
plans, terms and conditions.
   B.   "Subdivision" includes the division or development of land whether by
deed, metes and bounds description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat or
other recorded instrument.
   C.   "Subdivision" does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes;
      2.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new lot is created; and
         b.   The adjustment does not result in a violation of applicable
zoning ordinances;
      3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the
legal description of more than one contiguous parcel of property into one legal
description encompassing all such parcels of property; or
      4.   A bona fide division or partition of land in a county other than a
first class county for the purpose of siting, on one or more of the resulting
separate parcels:
         a.   An unmanned facility appurtenant to a pipeline owned or operated
by a gas corporation, interstate pipeline company, or intrastate pipeline
company; or
         b.   An unmanned telecommunications, microwave, fiber optic,
electrical, or other utility service regeneration, transformation,
retransmission, or amplification facility.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a "subdivision",
under subsection A of this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property
or subject the unsubdivided parcel to the county's subdivision ordinance.
SUBDIVISION, NONPLAT (MINISUBDIVISION) 1 : The subdivision of land into nine
(9) or fewer parcels by recordation of a document that divides the property by
metes and bounds description, and which meets all the requirements of this
title.
SUBDIVISION, RECREATIONAL: A subdivision of land for residential purposes
where, because of the temporary occupancy, topography, natural vegetation, and
other natural features, the standards for roads, utilities and other
improvements may differ from those for residential areas occupied year round.
(Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 3 of this title.
11-1-5: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; PLANS AND PLATS REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall "subdivide", as that term is defined herein, any parcel
of land in the county except in compliance with this title.
   B.   From the effective date hereof, the building official shall not grant
any permit for the use of any land or the construction of any building or
structure on a lot or parcel created in violation of this title, or on a lot in
a subdivision created by judicial decree, until a subdivision plat has been
approved and properly recorded as required by this title. Any license or permit
issued in conflict with the provisions of this title shall be null and void.
   C.   The owner of all lands to be subdivided shall have an accurate plat
made of the lands that sets forth and describes all the parcels of ground
divided, by their boundaries, course, and extent, and whether they are intended
for streets or other public uses, together with any areas that are reserved for
public purposes, and the lot or reference unit, the block or building
reference, the street or site address, the acreage or square footage for all
parcels, units, or lots, and the length and width of the blocks and lots
intended for sale.
   D.   No person shall sell, lease, exchange, encumber or otherwise convey any
parcel of land which is the result of subdivision of a larger tract of land
unless and until a final plat or deed, prepared in accordance with the
provisions of this title, shall have been first approved by the planning
commission and county commissioners and recorded in the office of the county
recorder.
   E.   No lot within a subdivision created and recorded prior to the effective
date hereof shall be further divided, rearranged, added to, or reduced in area,
nor shall the boundaries of any approved lot be altered in any manner so as to
create more lots than initially recorded, or any nonconforming lot, without
first obtaining approval of the planning commission and the county
commissioners as provided in this title. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-
2001)
11-1-6: FEE:
At the time of filing the preliminary plat, a nonrefundable fee shall be paid
in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the county commissioners. (Ord.
01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
11-1-7: HARDSHIP VARIANCE:
Should a property owner clearly demonstrate that, because of a particular
physical condition pertaining to his land and not to other lands similarly
zoned, that the literal enforcement of one or more requirements of this title
is impractical or will cause a particular undue hardship not suffered by other
owners of similarly zoned property, the board of adjustment may allow such
variance from the strict application of this title as is necessary to relieve
the hardship, upon a finding that such variance is necessary and will not be
inconsistent with the general purposes and intent of this title. (Ord. 01-08-
27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
11-1-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for agricultural
purposes is not a subdivision of land under this title (see chapter 3 of this
title). Any owner of real property who seeks to divide or partition land
pursuant to the exception of this subsection shall meet the requirements of
chapter 3 of this title.
   B.   A bona fide division or partition of land, for the purpose of siting,
on one or more of the resulting separate parcels, an unmanned facility
appurtenant to a pipeline owned or operated by a gas corporation, interstate
pipeline company, or intrastate pipeline company is not a subdivision of land
under this title.
   C.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties adjusting
their mutual boundary is not a subdivision of land under this title if no new
lot is created and the adjustment does not result in a violation of the county
zoning regulations.
   D.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the
legal description of more than one contiguous parcel of property into one legal
description encompassing all such parcels of property is not a subdivision of
land under this title.
   E.   A property owner may submit to the county recorder's office for
recording a document that subdivides property by metes and bounds into nine (9)
or fewer lots without the necessity of recording a plat, when the requirements
of chapter 3 of this title are met. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
11-1-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any plat of subdivision recorded without the approval of the county
commissioners, as provided herein, is void. Any violation of the provisions of
this title shall be a class C misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-2-1: Preapplication Conference
11-2-2: Sketch Plan Procedure
11-2-3: Preliminary Plat Procedure
11-2-4: Final Plat Procedure
11-2-5: Information And Specific Requirements
11-2-1: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
Any person wishing to divide, partition, or subdivide land within the county
shall secure from the planning and zoning administrator information pertaining
to the requirements for subdivisions and waivers and the county's plans of
zoning, streets, parks, drainage, and other master plan requirements affecting
the subject land. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
11-2-2: SKETCH PLAN PROCEDURE:
The property owner or his agent (hereafter "the property owner") shall submit a
sketch plan to the planning and zoning administrator for review. The sketch
plan is intended to enable the planning and zoning administrator and the
property owner to have an informal review of the site and proposed development
for general configuration, scope and conditions which might affect the
proposal. The sketch plan shall contain the information required in subsection
11-2-5A of this chapter. For a large area, where development is anticipated
over several years, the sketch plan shall show the development proposed in
phases. The planning and zoning administrator will review the sketch plan and
provide information to the property owner concerning its degree of conformity
with county requirements. The sketch plan shall be a guide to the property
owner concerning the configuration and specifications of the preliminary plat,
but shall confer no approval on the property owner. General acceptance of the
sketch plan concepts by the planning and zoning administrator does not
constitute approval of the preliminary plat. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff.
10-8-2001)
11-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Submission And Review: Following planning and zoning administrator
review of the sketch plan, the property owner shall submit a preliminary plat
and a title report on the subject property. The preliminary plat submission
shall include the information required in subsection 11-2-5B of this chapter.
Both the plat and the title report will be forwarded to the county surveyor who
will check for correctness. After the surveyor approval, the planning
commission will review the preliminary plat at a properly noticed meeting. The
planning commission may elect to conduct a public hearing on the preliminary
plat. If a public hearing is scheduled, the property owner shall provide a list
of the names and addresses of the owners of all properties within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the exterior boundaries of the proposed subdivision area.
Notice shall be mailed to each affected property owner, and the notice of
hearing shall be published at least one week prior to the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation. The property owner shall provide a list of
reasons why the proposed subdivision would benefit the county, and a
description of the feasibility of the road, water and sewer systems proposed.
   B.   Decisions; Expiration Of Plat: The planning commission may approve,
reject, or approve with modifications the preliminary plat. A planning
commission approval of the preliminary plat shall be valid for one year from
the date of approval unless an extension is requested by the property owner and
granted by the planning commission. If no final plat is submitted for approval
within one year, the preliminary plat approval will expire, and a new
preliminary plat must be submitted for planning commission review and approval.
(Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
11-2-4: FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE:
Within one year from the date of planning commission approval of the
preliminary plat, the property owner shall submit a final plat for review by
the planning commission and approval by the county commissioners. Submission of
the final plat must be accompanied by a current title report on the subject
property, cost estimates for the installation of all required subdivision
improvements, a draft of the surety proposed to be posted to secure
installation of the required improvements for review by the county engineer and
the county attorney, and all other requirements of subsection 11-2-5C of this
chapter. Upon approval of the final plat, but before the plat is released to
the property owner for recordation, surety in an amount approved by the county
engineer and in a form approved by the county attorney must be posted with the
county. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
11-2-5: INFORMATION AND SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sketch Plan:
      1.   The property owner shall submit three (3) copies of a sketch plan of
the area to be subdivided to the planning and zoning administrator for review
of the site plan, natural features and general conditions. The sketch plan
shall include the following:
         a.   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision, the
property boundaries and true north.
         b.   A vicinity map showing significant natural and manmade features
on site and within one-half (1/2) mile of any portion of the proposed
subdivision, including, but not limited to, surface water features,
floodplains, wetlands, mines, and structures.
         c.   Topographic contours from maps such as USGS topographic maps. The
topographic contour interval to be utilized on the preliminary plat shall be
determined at the sketch plan stage.
         d.   A lot and street layout showing street widths and scaled
dimensions of lots to the nearest foot.
         e.   The type, ownership and management of the water system proposed,
together with documentation of water rights and historic water use.
         f.   The type of sewer or sanitary waste system proposed.
         g.   The locations of fire hydrants.
         h.   The acreage of the area to be subdivided with a legal
description.
         i.   A draft copy of any proposed covenants, and a description of any
proposed homeowners' association.
      2.   The planning and zoning administrator shall review and provide
comments on the sketch plan within sixty (60) days of submission of a complete
sketch plan application. Acceptance of the sketch plan by the planning and
zoning administrator shall be staff approval of the subdivision concept only,
and does not constitute approval of the preliminary or final plat.
   B.   Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Upon acceptance of the sketch plan concept, the property owner shall
submit three (3) copies of a surveyed preliminary plat of the subdivision on
white paper drawn to a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
The preliminary plat sheets shall measure approximately twenty four inches by
thirty six inches (24" x 36"). The preliminary plat shall be submitted at least
fourteen (14) days prior to the planning commission meeting scheduled for
review of the preliminary plat. The preliminary plat shall be certified by a
registered professional engineer and shall include the following:
         a.   Certification from the county treasurer's office that property
taxes on the subject property are paid to date;
         b.   The proposed subdivision name, and the names of the property
owners, with the owners' addresses and telephone numbers;
         c.   A map (USDA or NRCS) showing soil types and their boundaries with
a table of interpretations, and high water table information for each lot
within the subdivision showing areas where the water table is within five feet
(5') of the ground surface.
         d.   The topography of the area to be subdivided, shown at a contour
interval specified by the planning and zoning administrator.
         e.   The signature of a registered land surveyor certifying plat
accuracy and correctness, and the signature of a professional engineer to
certify routing for installation of utilities and soil excavation.
         f.   A copy of a percolation test and the design proposed for water,
sewer and storm drain systems. (See section
11-4-4 of this title.)
      2.   When a complete preliminary plat and supporting information has been
properly filed, it shall be placed on the agenda of the next available planning
commission meeting.
   C.   Final Plat:
      1.   Time Limit For Submission: A final plat shall be submitted for
review by the planning commission within twelve (12) months from the date of
planning commission action on the preliminary plat. No final plat will be
accepted for review and approval after one year from the date of planning
commission approval of the preliminary plat unless the property owner has
requested and been granted an extension by the planning commission.
      2.   Phased Developments:
         a.   The final platting of a subdivision containing more than twenty
five (25) lots shall be done in phases, except as provided herein. Each phase
shall consist of the number of lots for which required subdivision improvements
can be completed within a two (2) year period, or twenty five (25) lots,
whichever is larger. The phase development shall be sequential, and the
required improvements shall be made available for the full, effective and
practical use of all the lots created in the phase approved before additional
phases will be approved.
         b.   When required phase improvements have been one hundred percent
(100%) completed within the boundaries of the recorded plat, and have been
approved by the county surveyor, and when lot owner improvements have been
completed on seventy percent (70%) of the lots in the phase, the property owner
may submit the next phase of the proposed subdivision for review in accordance
with the requirements of this title.
      3.   Required Documents: The final plat shall include and be accompanied
by the following:
         a.   An exact copy of the certificate of a title company or attorney
which shall set forth mortgages, judgments, liens, easements, contracts, and
agreements of record which affect the subject property for review by the county
attorney or his designee;
         b.   A certificate of property tax clearance from the county assessor
indicating that all taxes, interest, and penalties owing on the subject
property have been paid;
         c.   Surety for the installation of required subdivision improvements
in the form of an escrow, performance bond, letter of credit as approved by the
county attorney and accepted by the county commissioners;
         d.   The final plat shall contain signature blocks for approval by the
chair of the planning commission, chair of the county commissioners, county
engineer, and the county attorney.
      4.   Approval Prior To Construction Activities: No vegetation removal,
grading, improvements or construction shall commence on the subject property
until the final plat has been approved by the county commissioners, the
required surety for installation of required subdivision improvements has been
posted with the county, and the final plat has been properly recorded with the
county recorder. These requirements may be specifically waived by the planning
commission upon a showing of extraordinary circumstances. Any vegetation
removal, grading or construction on the subject property prior to approval and
recordation of the final plat, or without the waiver of the planning
commission, may constitute grounds for vacation of the subdivision plat.
      5.   Completion Of Improvements: All required subdivision improvements
shall be completed within two (2) years of the date of approval by the county
commissioners.
      6.   Expiration Of Unrecorded Plats: Unrecorded final plats shall expire
one year from the date of approval by the county commissioners, and shall not
be entitled to recordation after that time. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff.
10-8-2001)
CHAPTER 3
NONPLAT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Minisubdivisions
11-3-2: Division Of Agricultural Lands
11-3-1: MINISUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Conditions: Any property owner or an owner's agent (hereinafter a
"property owner") may submit to the county recorder's office for recording a
document that subdivides property by metes and bounds into nine (9) or fewer
parcels, without the necessity of recording a final plat if:
      1.   The planning commission has reviewed the document and has given the
county commissioners its recommendation on the subdivision application; and
      2.   The document contains a certification of approval signed by the
chairman of the county commissioners or his designee that:
         a.   The planning commission has given its recommendation to the
county commissioners;
         b.   The subdivision is not traversed by the mapped lines of a
proposed street as shown in the master plan and does not require the dedication
of any land for streets or other public purposes;
         c.   Each parcel in the subdivision meets the minimum area, width,
access, and frontage requirements of the zone in which the property is located,
or has been granted a variance from those requirements by the board of
adjustment.
   B.   Use Restrictions: The uses on parcels created under this section must
be either permitted or conditional uses in the zone district in which they are
located. Nonplat subdivisions which result in the creation of three (3) or
fewer lots will be presumed to be for the primary purpose of supporting
agricultural uses rather than for primarily residential purposes.
   C.   Lot Size: The sizes of the lots created in a three (3) or fewer lot,
nonplat subdivision may be smaller than the minimum lot size required in the
zone in order to preserve agricultural land uses.
   D.   One Time Process; Information On Deed: This special provision may be
utilized only once per parcel of property. Parcels of land which are subdivided
under these special circumstances must be deed restricted with a notation on
the documents of conveyance that this one time election has been exercised and
that the resulting parcels may not be further subdivided without recordation of
an approved subdivision plat. The deed restriction shall also contain a
statement that subsequent owners of the created parcels are on notice that the
parcels are in an agricultural zone, were created for the support of
agricultural activities, and may be subject to the noises, odors and other
conditions typical of agricultural activities. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff.
10-8-2001)
11-3-2: DIVISION OF AGRICULTURAL LANDS:
   A.   Conditions: The bona fide division or partition of agricultural land
for agricultural purposes is exempt from the subdivision plat requirements of
this title if:
      1.   The land qualifies as land in agricultural use under title 59,
chapter 2, part 5, of the farmland assessment act; and
      2.   None of the parcels created is smaller than the minimum lot size
requirement of the applicable zone; and
      3.   The purpose of the division is to use each of the parcels created
for agricultural purposes and not for investment, building development,
recreational use, cabin or housing areas, or other nonagricultural purpose; and
      4.   Each of the parcels created has legal access; and
      5.   Each of the parcels created is capable, in the opinion of the
planning commission and the county commissioners, of producing an income from
the sale of agricultural products. Among the factors used in making a decision
as to whether or not a division of land is a bona fide division or partition of
land for agricultural purposes shall be: availability of water for irrigation
or stock watering, the class of soil and depth of soil mantle, the slope of the
land, and past history of agricultural production.
   B.   Agricultural Use; Lot Size Restriction: The division or partition of
land into parcels, the smallest of which is forty (40) acres in area, is
presumed to be the bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes.
   C.   Survey Map And Procedures:
      1.   The boundaries of each parcel created under the exemption for
agricultural lands shall be graphically illustrated on a record of survey map
that shall be submitted to the planning commission for review. The map shall
contain an affidavit signed by the property owner that notifies future owners
that nonagricultural use may trigger the plat requirements for subdivision of
the parcel under this title.
      2.   The planning commission shall review the map for accuracy and the
parcels created for compliance with the minimum lot size requirements of the
zoning ordinance, and shall make its recommendations to the county
commissioners.
      3.   The county commissioners shall evaluate the bona fides of the
agricultural use of the property, and shall signify its approval by the
signature of the county commissioners' chair on the record of survey map in the
same manner as for subdivision plats.
      4.   The record of survey map may not be recorded with the county
recorder until the map is so approved by the county commissioners. No map or
other document which purports to divide or partition property by metes and
bounds descriptions shall be entitled to recordation by the county recorder
unless it contains the certificate or written approval required by the
regulations of this chapter.
   D.   Nonagricultural Use: If a parcel exempted under this chapter is used
for a nonagricultural purpose, the county may require the property owner to
comply with the plat requirements of this title. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001,
eff. 10-8-2001)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: General Requirements
11-4-2: Lots And Blocks
11-4-3: Streets And Roads
11-4-4: Utilities
11-4-5: Homeowners' Association
11-4-6: Guarantee Of Improvements
11-4-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Preservation Of Natural Features: The design and development of
subdivisions shall preserve, insofar as possible, the natural terrain, natural
drainage and existing topsoil and major vegetation. No vegetation removal,
grading or other changes to the terrain shall be permitted until the final plat
of the subdivision is recorded, unless a specific waiver of this requirement,
as described in section
11-2-5 of this title, is first obtained from the planning commission.
   B.   Hazardous Conditions: Land subject to hazardous conditions such as
steep slopes, landslides, mud flows, rock falls, snow avalanches, possible mine
subsidence, shallow water table, open quarries, floods and polluted or unusable
water supply shall be identified and shall not be approved for subdivision
until the hazards have been appropriately addressed by subdivision and
construction standards.
   C.   Removal Of Debris And Waste: All debris and waste shall be removed from
lots and street rights of way prior to construction of improvements thereon.
   D.   Surface Water Drainage: The subdivision plan shall make adequate
provision for the relocation of active irrigation ditches and shall adequately
provide for removal of return flow waters from adjacent farmlands. (Ord. 01-08-
27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
11-4-2: LOTS AND BLOCKS:
   A.   Prohibited Divisions In Single Lots:
      1.   No single lot shall be divided by a municipal or county boundary
line.
      2.   No single lot shall be divided by a road, alley or other lot.
   B.   Wedge Shaped Lots: Wedge shaped lots shall maintain the minimum street
frontage required by the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Side Lots: Side lots shall be at substantially right angles or radial
to street lines. Lot lines not at right angles to street lines shall be shown.
   D.   Flag Lots: Flag lots may be allowed in certain circumstances to
accommodate the development of property that could not reasonably be otherwise
developed under the requirements of this title. A flag lot is comprised of a
"staff", the lot right of way leading from a public right of way to the lot,
and the "flag", the main area of the lot. No more than two (2) flag lots may be
served by a single lot right of way. The lot right of way must be at least
twenty eight feet (28') in width. The front yard of a flag lot shall be the
side of the "flag" portion of the lot that adjoins the "staff". The minimum
front yard setback for flag lots is the minimum front yard setback required in
the zone, plus thirty three feet (33') from the centerline of the lot right of
way. All flag lots must provide a bulb type emergency vehicle turnaround a
minimum of fifty feet (50') in diameter, or a T-type turnaround approved by the
fire marshal.
   E.   Residential Lot Frontage: All residential lots in a subdivision shall
front on a county street or private street, except as may be approved in PUDs,
cluster subdivisions, flag lots, or other special circumstances.
   F.   Sidewalks, Curbs And Gutters: The need for sidewalks, curbs and gutters
will be evaluated for each subdivision, taking into consideration such factors
as the size of the development, lot sizes, snow removal, pedestrian
circulation, etc. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
   G.   Block Length: Block length shall conform to the county's adopted
addressing system 1 : one thousand (1,000) numbers per mile in the Delta grid
and West Desert grid, and seven hundred (700) numbers per mile in the Filmore
grid. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001; amd. 2005 Code)
   H.   Minimum Area: All lots shall conform to the zone minimum area
requirements of the county zoning ordinance. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff.
10-8-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 10 of this code.
11-4-3: STREETS AND ROADS:
   A.   Compliance With County Plan And Standards: The street and road layout
shall conform to the master plan and official county roads map as adopted by
the planning commission. All streets and roads, public and private, must be
designed, constructed and paved to county standards and shall be approved by a
professional engineer.
   B.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be laid out to discourage through
traffic.
   C.   Stubbed Streets: Stubbed streets shall be provided where needed to
provide future access to adjacent undeveloped land. Streets must be laid out to
connect to existing stubbed streets in adjacent subdivisions. Not more than six
(6) lots shall front on a dead end street, including those where a temporary
cul-de-sac turnaround is provided.
   D.   Intersections:
      1.   The number of intersections between minor streets and major streets
shall be kept to a minimum.
      2.   No more than four (4) streets shall enter an intersection.
      3.   Streets shall intersect at ninety degree (90°) angles.
      4.   Two (2) subordinate streets meeting a through street from opposite
sides shall either meet at the same point, or their centerlines shall be offset
at least two hundred feet (200').
   E.   Highway Abutments; Encroachment Permit Required: Where a residential
subdivision abuts a state or county highway, an encroachment permit must be
obtained from the state department of transportation or the county.
   F.   Right Of Way Widths: Right of way widths for streets and roads shall be
as follows:
      1.   Major collector: Minimum of sixty six feet (66') wide.
      2.   Minor collector: Minimum of fifty feet (50') wide.
      3.   Frontage road: Minimum of fifty feet (50') wide.
      4.   Private street or road: Minimum of twenty eight feet (28') wide.
   G.   Shoulders: Where no curbs are installed, minimum six foot (6') wide
shoulders must be provided.
   H.   Half Width Streets: Half width streets are not permitted, except to
complete an already existing half street.
   I.   Dead End Streets: Dead end streets, other than permanent cul-de-sacs,
are permitted only as stubbed streets to provide future access to adjoining
property and must include temporary turnarounds. Temporary bulb turnarounds
must be a minimum of fifty feet (50') in diameter.
   J.   Cul-De-Sacs: No more than six (6) lots may front on a permanent cul-de-
sac. Permanent cul-de-sacs must include a turnaround bulb a minimum of eighty
feet (80') in diameter.
   K.   Grades: All roads and street grades shall be designed as follows:
      1.   Major and collector roads and streets are limited to a maximum grade
of eight percent (8%). Sustained grades shall be limited to five percent (5%).
      2.   Minor roads and streets are limited to a maximum grade of ten
percent (10%). Sustained grades shall be limited to seven percent (7%).
      3.   Cul-de-sacs with a negative grade progressing toward the turnaround
shall be limited to a maximum grade of six percent (6%). The cul-de-sac shall
terminate with a grade not to exceed three percent (3%) for the last one
hundred feet (100') of traveled surface. Cul-de-sacs shall be limited to a
maximum length of nine hundred feet (900') and shall have adequate easement for
drainage.
      4.   Intersections must have a vertical alignment such that the grade
shall not exceed three percent (3%) for a minimum distance of fifty feet (50')
each way from the centerline of the intersection.
      5.   Roads in mountainous terrain may be required to have grades less
than otherwise allowed in order that they can be safely negotiated and snow
removed in the winter.
   L.   Street Names And Numbers:
      1.   Where subdivision streets are in basic alignment with existing
streets, they shall have the same name and number. No subdivision street names
shall be duplicates of street names elsewhere in the county.
      2.   Street names shall be erected on signs in compliance with the
addressing system 1 .
      3.   All lots shall have assigned street numbers on the final plat. (Ord.
01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 7-10-2B of this code.
11-4-4: UTILITIES:
   A.   Underground Utilities: Utilities are to be placed underground,
including power, telephone, and any other required utilities.
   B.   Sewer Systems: Sewer systems shall conform to state health
requirements. Documentation of perc test and sewer and water permits for each
lot must be filed with the building official and state health department.
   C.   Water Systems:
      1.   For public water systems, the developer shall provide a piped water
supply to the property line of each lot. Such systems shall meet the
requirements established by the state department of environmental quality,
division of drinking water. The design and operation of the water system shall
be approved by the state engineer.
      2.   Private on lot water supply systems from a communal well or spring
may be allowed if the property owner meets the following requirements:
         a.   The property owner shall provide documentation of a certificated
water right with an approved point of diversion and sufficient quantity and
flow to meet the needs of the subdivision. The property owner shall submit a
letter of approval for the well, spring and system from the state department of
health and the state engineer before subdivision construction begins.
         b.   The property owner shall provide a geologic report containing a
specific section on ground water, prepared by a qualified geologist which shows
the probability of success of wells or on site supply systems, the expected
long term yield of such wells and systems, the expected depth of usable water,
expected quality of water, and any expected problems with long term supply
pollution and long term maintenance of the system. System operation shall be
included in the homeowners' association bylaws.
         c.   Private water systems which serve twenty five (25) or more
persons must meet state standards for a public water supply.
      3.   All water systems, public and private, must be designed and operated
to meet minimum fire storage and flow requirements as established by the county
fire marshal.
      4.   In the case of private water systems, the county shall not be held
responsible for water system malfunction, water quality, or water quantity.
   D.   Drainage System: All drainage system plans must be approved by the
drainage district board when the subdivision lies within the drainage district
and proposes to use the existing drains. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-
2001)
11-4-5: HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION:
As assurance that required, nonpublic subdivision improvements will be put in
place and properly maintained, a homeowners' association shall be formed by the
property owner before any lots are sold. Such an association shall establish
bylaws and covenants outlining the purpose and organization of the association,
and ensure the proper operation of the development. Such articles and covenants
shall, among other things, provide:
   A.   Membership shall be mandatory for each lot owner and any successive
buyer.
   B.   The association will be responsible for liability insurance, local
taxes, and the maintenance of recreation and other facilities.
   C.   The association will be responsible for the operation and maintenance
of all private water systems.
   D.   For an assessment to be levied to each lot owner or association member
for the purpose of meeting the costs of operation of the association. Such
assessment, if it becomes past due and unpaid, shall become a lien against the
property of the delinquent lot owner. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-
2001)
11-4-6: GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Before final plat approval, the property owner must provide documentation that
surety in favor of the county, in a form approved by the county attorney and
county commissioners, will be posted to ensure that required subdivision
improvements will be installed. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Recreational Subdivisions
11-5-2: Cluster Subdivisions
11-5-3: Special On Site Housing
11-5-1: RECREATIONAL SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The county recognizes the need to modify the usual subdivision
improvement standards for subdivisions proposed for temporary occupancy in the
mountain areas of the county. Due to the temporary occupancy and the desire to
minimize impacts to the natural features of the areas in which such
subdivisions are located, the standards for subdivision improvements may be
modified on a case by case basis.
   B.   Location; Temporary Use: Recreational subdivisions shall be approved
only for those locations in mountain areas of the county where the planning
commission determines that such subdivisions will most likely be used only for
temporary, rather than year round, occupancy. The county shall determine what
policies should be followed to ensure that such subdivisions will remain
recreational subdivisions and will not readily be converted to year round
living in the future where the full range of improvements and services will be
required by the residents.
   C.   Right Of Way Widths; Alteration Of Design And Improvement Standards:
The county will require that street and utility rights of way be established at
the full widths required by this title, but that streets and other improvements
may be constructed to reduced sizes to minimize impacts to vegetation and other
surface impacts.
   D.   Responsibility For Installation And Maintenance Of Improvements:
Installation and maintenance of water systems, roads, sanitary sewer systems,
fire protection, and transportation shall be the responsibility of the property
owner and the residents. In the event property owners in a recreational
subdivision request that the county provide maintenance of subdivision
improvements, all such improvements must be brought into compliance with county
standards before the county will consider assumption of the maintenance
responsibility. All plats of recreational subdivisions will contain a note
explaining that maintenance of the subdivision improvements is the
responsibility of the lot owners, and that the county will not consider
assumption of the maintenance responsibility until all subdivision improvements
are in compliance with county standards, which note shall be included on deeds
and other instruments of conveyance of lots within a recreational subdivision.
(Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
11-5-2: CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS:
Lots smaller than the minimum lot size required in a zone may be allowed to
"cluster" development on a portion of an area to be subdivided in order to
reduce infrastructure costs, preserve open space and provide for common
facilities and areas. Cluster subdivisions will be reviewed and approved
pursuant to the requirements for planned unit developments. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-
27-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
11-5-3: SPECIAL ON SITE HOUSING:
If a business entity such as a dairy, feedlot, manufacturing plant, etc., can
show the need for on site housing exclusively for the use of its employees for
on site work, permanent housing may be constructed and installed on site if:
   A.   The property on which the on site housing is to be constructed will not
be divided into individual lots;
   B.   Undivided ownership of the subject property remains solely with the
business entity for which the dwellings were built;
   C.   All applicable requirements of this title are met; and
   D.   All applicable zoning restrictions are met. (Ord. 01-08-27A, 8-27-2001,
eff. 10-8-2001)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose
12-1-2: Methods Of Accomplishing Purpose
12-1-3: Definitions
12-1-4: Application; Interpretation; Compliance
12-1-5: Building Official Administer Provisions
12-1-6: Development Permit
12-1-7: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-8: Disclaimer Of Liability
12-1-9: Violation; Penalty
12-1-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health and safety and
to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas
by provisions designed accomplish the following:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by minimizing future flood blight
areas; and
   G.   To ensure that those who occupy flood prone areas assume responsibility
for their actions. (1988 Code § 7.36.010)
12-1-2: METHODS OF ACCOMPLISHING PURPOSE:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosions, flood heights, or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (1988 Code § 7.36.020)
12-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in
common usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
MOBILE HOME: A structure that is transportable in one or more sections built on
a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required facilities. The term "mobile home"
does not include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building or mobile home that is principally
aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damages occurred. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial
improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   B.   The term "substantial improvement" does not, however, include:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places. (1988 Code § 7.36.030)
12-1-4: APPLICATION; INTERPRETATION; COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: This chapter shall apply to all areas within
the jurisdiction of the county located within a designated natural floodplain
as shown on the official floodplain maps promulgated by the United States army
corps of engineers. (1988 Code § 7.36.040)
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: No structure or land shall hereafter be
constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. (1988 Code §
7.36.050)
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restriction shall prevail. (1988 Code § 7.36.060)
   D.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the board of county commissioners;
and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. (1988 Code § 7.36.070)
12-1-5: BUILDING OFFICIAL ADMINISTER PROVISIONS:
   A.   Administrative Officer: The county building official shall administer
and implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with these provisions. (1988 Code § 7.36.100)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties of the county building official
shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied and to determine whether
proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the flood prone
area. For the purposes of this chapter, "adversely affects" means damage to the
adjacent properties because of increases in flood stages attributed to physical
changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
      2.   Decisions:
         a.   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration.
         b.   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then
technical jurisdiction (i.e., a registered professional engineer) for the
proposed development shall be required.
         c.   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions of
this chapter shall apply. (1988 Code § 7.36.110)
12-1-6: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained before
construction or development begins within the county.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a development permit shall be
made on forms furnished by the county building official and may include, but
not be limited to:
      1.   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the areas in question;
      2.   Existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials,
drainage facilities; and
      3.   The location of the foregoing. (1988 Code § 7.36.090)
12-1-7: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
If a proposed building site is located in a flood prone area, all new
construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
prefabricated buildings and mobile homes) shall conform to the following
standards: (1988 Code § 7.36.120)
   A.   Anchoring: All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
(1988 Code § 7.36.130)
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. (1988 Code
§ 7.36.140)
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   Water Supply: All new and replacement water supply systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      2.   Sewage Disposal: New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems and discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
      3.   Solid Waste Disposal: On site waste disposal systems shall be
located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
(1988 Code § 7.36.140)
   D.   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage; and
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage. (1988 Code § 7.36.150)
12-1-8: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the county, any officer
of employee thereof, or the federal insurance administration for any flood
damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder. (1988 Code § 7.36.080)
12-1-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for each day of continued violation. (1988 Code § 7.36.170;
amd. 2005 Code)
