CITY CODE
of
MONTICELLO, UTAH
1996
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-03, passed 7-8-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Monticello, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2025-03, passed July 8, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Ordinances listed have been passed, but have not been incorporated in the
actual code. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 1996-4
   CITY OF MONTICELLO
   TO ADOPT THE CITY CODE OF MONTICELLO, UTAH
   REVISING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING THE GENERAL ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the Governing Body of the City of Monticello has reviewed the Code
of Revised Ordinances of Monticello adopted in 1978 and all subsequent
ordinances adopted by the City, and has made changes, alterations,
modifications, additions, and substitutions thereto; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Monticello has employed the services of Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., to compile said codes and ordinances, so that a current and
complete simplified code of ordinances shall be presented without errors,
inconsistencies, repetitions, and ambiguities;
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Mayor and City Council of the City of
Monticello, Utah, a Utah Municipal Corporation:
   1.   From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City Code of
the City of Monticello, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature, together with the changes
made to said ordinances under the direction of the Governing Body of the City,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the Official Code and Law
of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   2.   There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place of the official copies, certified as to correctness, and
available for inspection at any and all times that the City Office is regularly
open.
   3.   All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City Code
shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision, and the fact
that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the Governing Body
shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of
ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
   4.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or
amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or to insert
or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in
any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be misrepresented
thereby.
   5.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   6.   This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall become effective
on January 1, 1997.
   PASSED AND APPROVED by the Monticello City Council on the 13th day of
November, 1996.
Published in the San Juan Record on November 20 and November 27, 1996.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Incorporation Of Statutes
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Monticello. This City
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the MONTICELLO CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1996 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1996 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1996 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Recorder/Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the City
Recorder/Clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of the City Code shall make
every effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
office of the City Recorder/Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession
of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of
the City and shall be returned to the office of the City Recorder/Clerk when
directed so to do by order of the City Council. (1996 Code)
1-1-5: INCORPORATION OF STATUTES:
Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or construed
to include, incorporate or make the citation or statute part of this Code
unless the provisions of this Code specifically include, incorporate or make
the citation or statute part of this Code by reference or incorporation, and
any such reference or citation not specifically included or incorporated may be
changed, amended or deleted without publication on an order of the City
Council. (1978 Code § 1-009)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the City passed prior to
the adoption of this City Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this City Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the City; and all special ordinances. (1996 Code)
   B   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided in
subsection A, shall not affect any debt or fee which is accrued, any duty
imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding commenced under or
by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office of any person
holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor shall the repeal
of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance heretofore repealed
or superseded. (1978 Code § 1-003)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to streets and other public ways, or relating to the
conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall be repealed by
virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the preceding Section,
excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such matters, in which
case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or
ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1996 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B   Scope Of Section: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this City Code. (1996 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. The use of any
verb in the present tense shall include the future and past tense when
applicable. (1996 Code)
   B   All words and phrases shall be constructed and understood according to
the common use and understanding of the language; the technical words and
phrases and such other words and phrases as may have acquired a particular
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such particular
meaning. (1978 Code § 1-005A)
   C   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1996 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BUSINESS: Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license is required by any ordinance of this City.
CITY: The City of Monticello, Utah.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Monticello, Utah.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the City Council of the City of
Monticello, Utah.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Monticello".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
GOVERNING BODY: The Mayor and Council of the City of Monticello.
HIGHWAY; ROAD: Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the words
"county way", "county road", "common road", and "State road".
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation. The term "license" includes any certificate or license issued by
the City.
LOCATION: Whenever any act, conduct or offense is prohibited or required and no
reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct, or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of this City.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS OR OFFICIALS: Any elected or appointed person employed by the City,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Whenever reference is made in
this Code to a City officer or official by title only, this shall be construed
as though followed by the words "of the City of Monticello".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
RECORDER/CLERK: The individual appointed to act as the Recorder of the City.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The State of Utah.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and
intersections.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
TIME COMPUTED: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any
ordinance or in any resolution or order of this City, when expressed in days,
shall be determined by excluding the first day and including the last day,
except if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the last day shall
be the day next following such Sunday or legal holiday which is not a Sunday or
legal holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all legal holidays
shall be excluded.
WEEK: Shall be construed to mean any seven (7) day period.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1978 Code § 1-005; 1996 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Construction Of Penalties
1-4-2: Jurisdiction Of Offenses
1-4-3: Limitations Of Actions
1-4-4: Criminal Joinder
1-4-5: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-6: Sentencing
1-4-7: Administrative Remedies
1-4-1: CONSTRUCTION OF PENALTIES:
   A   Provisions Of Code: The provisions of this Code shall govern the
construction of, the punishment for, and the defense against any offense
defined in this Code, or, except where otherwise specifically provided or the
context otherwise requires, any offense defined outside this Code; provided,
such offense was committed after the effective date of this Code.
   B   Offense Prior To Effective Date: Any offense committed prior to the
effective date of this Code shall be governed by the ordinances of this City
existing at the time of commission thereof, except that a defense or limitation
on punishment available under this Code shall be available to any defendant
tried or retried after the effective date. An offense under this Code shall be
deemed to have been committed prior to the effective date of this Code if any
of the elements of the offense occurred prior to the effective date. (1978 Code
§ 1-111)
   C   Purposes And Principles Of Construction: The provisions of this Code
shall be construed in accordance with these general purposes to:
      1   Forbid and prevent the commission of offenses.
      2   Define adequately the conduct and mental state which constitutes each
offense and safeguard conduct which is without fault from condemnation as
criminal.
      3   Prescribe the penalties which are proportionate to the seriousness of
offenses and which permit recognition of differences in rehabilitation
possibilities among individual offenders.
      4   Prevent arbitrary or oppressive treatment of persons accused or
convicted of offenses. (1978 Code § 1-112)
   D   Crimes Abolished: No conduct is a crime or an offense unless made so by
this Code, or other ordinances or other applicable statute. (1978 Code § 1-113)
   E   Strict Construction Rule Not Applicable: The rule that a penal ordinance
is to be strictly construed shall not apply to this Code, or any of its
provisions, or other ordinances of this City. All provisions of this Code and
offenses defined by it shall be construed according to the fair import of their
terms to promote justice and to affect the objects of the law and general
purposes of subsection
1-4-1C. (1978 Code § 1-114)
   F   Procedure Governed By State And Constitutional Provisions; Liability Of
Officers:
      1   Except as otherwise provided, the procedure governing the accusation,
prosecution, conviction, and punishment of offenders and offenses is not
regulated by this Code, but shall be in conformity with the laws of Utah and
the Constitution of the United States.
      2   This Code does not bar, suspend or otherwise affect any rights to or
liability for damages, penalty, forfeiture, impeachment or other remedy
authorized by law to be covered or enforced in a civil action, administrative
proceeding or otherwise, regardless of whether the conduct involved in the
proceeding constitutes an offense defined in this Code. (1978 Code § 1-115)
      3   No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1996 Code)
1-4-2: JURISDICTION OF OFFENSES:
   A   Subject To Prosecution: A person is subject to prosecution in this City
for an offense which he commits, while either within or outside the City, by
his own conduct or that of another for which he is legally accountable, if:
      1   The offense is committed either wholly or partly within this City; or
      2   The conduct outside this City constitutes an attempt within this
City; or
      3   The conduct outside this City constitutes a conspiracy to commit an
offense within this City and an act in furtherance of the conspiracy occurs in
this City; or
      4   The conduct within the City constitutes an attempt, solicitation or
conspiracy to commit in another jurisdiction an offense under this Code and
such other jurisdiction.
   B   Offense Committed Partly Within City: An offense is committed partly
within this City if either the conduct which is an element of the offense, or
the result which is such an element, occurs within this City.
   C   Offense Based On Omission To Perform: An offense which is based on an
omission to perform a duty imposed by this Code is committed within this City
regardless of the location of the offender at the time of the omission. (1978
Code § 1-121)
1-4-3: LIMITATIONS OF ACTIONS:
   A   Embezzlement; Falsification: A prosecution for embezzlement of public
monies or the falsification of public records may be commenced at any time.
(1978 Code § 1-131)
   B   Prosecutions For Other Offenses: Except as otherwise provided in this
Chapter, prosecutions for other offenses are subject to the following periods
of limitation:
      1   A prosecution for a misdemeanor must be commenced within two (2)
years after it is committed;
      2   A prosecution for any infraction must be commenced within one year
after it is committed.
   C   Prosecution Commenced: The prosecution is commenced on the filing of a
complaint or information. (1978 Code § 1-132)
   D   Fraud; Misconduct: If the period prescribed in subsection
1-4-3B has expired, a prosecution may nevertheless be commenced for:
      1   Any offense, a material element of which is either fraud or a breach
of fiduciary obligation, within one year after discovery of the offense by an
aggrieved party or by a person who has a legal duty to represent an aggrieved
party and who is himself not a party to the offense, but in no case shall this
provision extend beyond the period of limitation otherwise applicable by more
than three (3) years; and
      2   Any offense based on misconduct in office by a public officer or
employee at any time during the term of the defendant's public office or the
period of his public employment or within two (2) years thereafter, but in no
case shall this provision extend beyond the period of limitation otherwise
applicable by more than three (3) years. (1978 Code § 1-133)
   E   Defendant Out Of State: The period of limitation does not run against
any defendant during any period of time he is out of the State following the
commission of an offense. (1978 Code § 1-134)
   F   Lesser Included Offense: Whenever a defendant is charged with an offense
for which the period of limitations has not run and the defendant should be
found guilty of a lesser offense for which the period of limitations has run,
the finding of the lesser and included offense against which the statute of
limitations has run out shall not be a bar to punishment for the lesser
offense. (1978 Code § 1-135)
1-4-4: CRIMINAL JOINDER:
   A   Single Criminal Episode: In this Code, unless the context requires a
different definition, "single criminal episode" means all conduct which is
closely related in time and is incident to an attempt or an accomplishment of a
single criminal objective. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit
or modify the joinder of offenses and defendants in criminal proceedings. (1978
Code § 1-141)
   B   Joinder Of Offenses And Defendants:
      1   Two (2) or more offenses under this Code or the ordinances of this
City may be charged in the same citation or complaint in a separate count for
each offense if the offenses charged are of the same or similar character or
are based on the same act or transgression or on two (2) or more acts or
transactions connected together or constituting parts of a common scheme or
plan.
      2   Two (2) or more defendants may be charged in the same citation or
complaint if they are alleged to have participated in the same act or
transaction or in the same series of acts or transactions. Such defendants may
be charged in one or more counts together or separately and all of the
defendants need not be charged in each count. (1978 Code § 1-143)
1-4-5: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this Code or the
ordinances of this City shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter.
      2   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this Code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this Chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided. (1978 Code § 1-311)
   B   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions. (1978 Code § 1-312)
   C   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a   Class B misdemeanors;
         b   Class C misdemeanors.
      2   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this Code or any ordinance of this City when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a Class B
misdemeanor. (1978 Code § 1-313)
   D   Infractions:
      1   Infractions are not classified.
      2   Any offense which is made an infraction in this Code or other
ordinances of this City, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this Code or other ordinances of this City which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction. (1978 Code § 1-314)
   E   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this Code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (1978 Code § 1-315)
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 76-3-104.
1-4-6: SENTENCING:
   A   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 : Unless otherwise specifically
authorized by statute, the City Council may provide a penalty for the violation
of any City ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum Class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated, section 76-3-301, or by a term of imprisonment
up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of imprisonment. The City
Council may prescribe a minimum penalty for the violation of any City ordinance
and may impose a civil penalty for the unauthorized use of City property,
including, but not limited to, the use of parks, streets, and other public
grounds or equipment. Rules of civil procedure shall be substantially followed.
(1978 Code § 3-703; 1996 Code)
   B   Combination Of Sentences Allowed: Within the limits prescribed by this
Code, a court may sentence a person adjudged guilty of an offense to any one of
the following sentences or a combination of such sentences:
      1   To pay a fine; or
      2   To probation; or
      3   To imprisonment. (1978 Code § 1-321)
   C   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1   In the case of a Class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2   In the case of a Class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding ninety
(90) days. (1978 Code § 1-322)
   D   Infractions:
      1   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture, and disqualification, or any combination.
      2   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a Class C misdemeanor. (1978 Code §
1-323; 1996 Code)
   E   Fines Of Persons 3 : A person who has been convicted of an offense may,
in addition to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not
to exceed:
      1   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the conviction is of a Class B
misdemeanor; and
      2   Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) when the conviction is of a
Class C misdemeanor or infraction.
   F   Fines Of Corporations 4 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this Code, or the ordinances of the City, or for an offense
defined outside of this Code over which this City has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1   Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the conviction is for a Class
B misdemeanor; and
      2   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the conviction is for a Class C
misdemeanor or for an infraction. (Ord. 92-2, 1-22-1992)
 
Notes
1 2. U.C.A. § 10-3-703.
2 1. U.C.A. § 76-3-204.
3 2. U.C.A. § 76-3-301.
4 3. U.C.A. § 76-3-302.
1-4-7: ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES:
   A   Request: Unless otherwise specifically provided in any ordinance of the
City or any code adopted by reference, a hearing before the City Council may be
requested by any person:
      1   Who is denied or refused a permit or license by any officer, agent or
employee of this City.
      2   Whose permit or license is revoked, restricted, qualified, or limited
from that for which it was first issued. (1978 Code § 1-411)
   B   Form Of Request: The request for hearing must be made in writing to the
Mayor or City Recorder/Clerk and made within thirty (30) days following the
date notice denying, refusing, revoking, qualifying or restricting the license
or permit is mailed by the City to the applicant or license holder at his
address as it appears on the application or license. (1978 Code § 4-412)
   C   Procedure:
      1   Following receipt of a request for hearing, the City Council shall
inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and place the hearing is to
be held.
      2   At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have the right to hear and
examine any witnesses the City may produce to support its decision and to
present his own evidence in support of his contention.
      3   The City Council shall, within ten (10) days following the conclusion
of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who requested the hearing of the
decision of the City Council. (1978 Code § 1-413)
   D   Not Additional Remedy: This Section shall not be construed so as to
afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the City Council nor
shall the hearing provided in this Section apply to any criminal complaint or
proceeding. (1978 Code § 1-414)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: City Council
1-5-2: Membership, Vacancies And Campaign Finance Disclosure
1-5-3: Mayor As Member Of Governing Body
1-5-4: Meetings, Procedure And Conduct; Voting
1-5-5: Ordinances, Resolutions And Procedures
1-5-6: Municipal Administration
1-5-1: CITY COUNCIL:
   A   Number Of Members: The city council shall be a council of six (6)
persons, one of whom shall be the mayor and the remaining five (5) shall be
council members. (1978 Code § 3-105; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Election Of Governing Body:
      1   Each elected officer of the city shall hold office for the term for
which he is elected and until his successor is chosen and qualified, unless the
office becomes vacant under Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-301. (1978 Code §
3-202; amd. 1996 Code)
      2   On the Tuesday after the first Monday in November 1977, and
biennially thereafter, an election shall be held to fill all elective offices
vacated by twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the first Monday in the January
following the election. The officers elected shall continue in the office to
which they were elected for four (4) years except in case of death,
resignation, removal or disqualification from office.
      3   The officers so elected shall begin their term of office at twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on the first Monday in January following their election.
(1978 Code § 3-201; amd. 1996 Code)
   C   Election Of Officers: The election and terms of office of the officers
shall be as follows:
      1   The offices of mayor and two (2) council members shall be filled in
municipal elections held in 1977. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
      2   The offices of the other three (3) council members shall be filled in
a municipal election held in 1979. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
      3   The offices shall be filled in at large elections which shall be held
at the time and the manner provided for electing municipal officers. (1978 Code
§ 3-205; amd. 1996 Code)
   D   Determining Two And Four Year Terms: Where both two (2) and four (4)
year terms are to be filled by election or appointment, the election ballot or
appointment shall clearly state which persons are to be elected or appointed to
the shorter term and to the longer term. (1978 Code § 3-207; amd. 1996 Code)
   E   Number Of Candidates Exceeds Number To Be Elected:
      1   This section provides for the candidates for mayor and council
members to be nominated at a primary election if required. A primary election
will be held only when the number of candidates filing for an office exceeds
twice the number to be elected. The candidates nominated at the primary
election, plus candidates that were not required to run in the primary, are to
be placed on the November ballot.
      2   The election for mayor and council members as provided in subsection
E1 of this section, shall be conducted according to the municipal election
section of the Utah Code Annotated sections 20A-9-404(1) and (2). (Ord. 95-1,
3-22-1995; amd. 1996 Code)
1-5-2: MEMBERSHIP, VACANCIES AND CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE:
   A   Eligibility And Residency Requirements For Elected City Office:
      1   A person filing a declaration of candidacy for a city office shall:
         a   Have been a resident of the city for at least one year immediately
before the date of the election; and
         b   Meet the other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-
203.
      2   A person living in an area annexed to the city meets the residency
requirement of this subsection if that person resided within the area annexed
to the city for at least one year before the date of the election.
      3   Any person elected to city office shall be a registered voter in the
city.
      4   Each elected officer of the city shall maintain residency within the
boundaries of the city during his term of office.
      5   If an elected officer of the city establishes his principal place of
residence as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-2-105 outside of the
city during his term of office, the office is automatically vacant.
      6   If an elected city officer is absent from the city any time during
his term of office for a continuous period of more than sixty (60) days without
the consent of the city council, the city office is automatically vacant. (1978
Code § 3-301; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Vacancy In Office Of Mayor Or Council Member Of City: Vacancies shall be
filled as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510. (1978 Code § 3-
302; amd. 1996 Code)
   C   Campaign Finance Disclosure:
      1   General: All candidates for elective municipal office shall comply
with the campaign finance disclosure requirements as set forth herein.
      2   Definitions:
    CANDIDATE: Any person who files a declaration of candidacy for an elective
office of the city, or who is nominated by a committee, party, or petition.
   CONTRIBUTION: Any monetary contribution, or any nonmonetary contributions,
such as in kind contributions and contributions of tangible things.
   EXPENDITURE: Money spent by the candidate indicating an intention to seek
such office, or by another person with a view to bringing about the candidate's
election to office, for any written material or advertisement to be printed,
published, broadcast, distributed or disseminated.
      3   Filing Of Disclosure Reports: Each candidate for elective office who
either receives or spends more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) on
their campaign shall be required to file a financial disclosure report with the
city recorder. Forms shall be made available by the city. Other forms in
substantially the same format are also acceptable.
         a   Reports of the candidate's itemized and total campaign
contributions and expenditures shall be filed at least seven (7) days before
the municipal general election and within thirty (30) days following the final
election.
         b   Both the preelection and postelection financial reports shall
identify: for each contribution of more than fifty dollars ($50.00), the name
of the donor and the amount of the contribution; for each expenditure, the name
of the recipient and the amount of the expenditure. Postelection reports shall
include all contributions and expenditures received or made after filing of the
preelection report and the name of the donor or recipient.
      4   Penalty For Noncompliance: Any candidate who fails to comply with the
provisions of this subsection C shall be guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 2001-1,
7-26-2001)
1-5-3: MAYOR AS MEMBER OF GOVERNING BODY:
   A   Voting Member: The mayor shall not vote, except in the case of a tie
vote of the council. (1978 Code § 3-402; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Mayor As Presiding Officer; Mayor Pro Tempore: The mayor shall be the
chairman and preside at the meetings of the city council. In the absence of the
mayor or because of his inability or refusal to act, the city council may elect
a member of the council to preside over the meeting as mayor pro tempore, who
shall have all the powers and duties of the mayor during his absence or
disability. The election of a mayor pro tempore shall be entered in the minutes
of the meeting. (1978 Code § 3-403; amd. 1996 Code)
   C   No Veto: The mayor shall have no power to veto any act of the city
council unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute. (1978 Code § 3-
404; amd. 1996 Code)
1-5-4: MEETINGS, PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT; VOTING:
   A   Regular Meetings:
      1   The governing body shall hold two (2) regular meetings which shall be
held on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month at the city offices. (Ord.
2009-25, 11-24-2009, eff. 11-24-2009)
      2   The meetings held on the dates specified in the foregoing subsection
shall begin promptly at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
         a   If the meeting date is a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be
held at the same time and place above described on the next following day which
is not a legal holiday.
         b   The governing body may provide for a different time and place for
holding regular meetings of the city council. (1978 Code § 3-502; amd. 1996
Code)
   B   Special Meetings: If at any time the business of the city requires a
special meeting of the city council, such meeting may be ordered by the mayor
or any two (2) members of the city council. The order shall be entered in the
minutes of the city council. The order shall provide at least three (3) hours'
notice of the special meeting and notice thereof shall be served by the city
recorder-clerk on each member who did not sign the order by delivering the
notice personally or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode. The
personal appearance by a council member at any specially called meeting
constitutes a waiver of the notice required in this subsection. (1978 Code § 3-
503; amd. 1996 Code)
   C   Open Meetings: Every meeting is open to the public unless closed
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 52-4-4 and 52-4-5. (1978 Code § 3-601;
amd. 1996 Code)
   D   Quorum:
      1   Defined: The number of members of the city council necessary to
constitute a quorum is three (3) or more. (1978 Code § 3-505; amd. 1996 Code)
      2   Necessary: No action of the city council shall be official or of any
effect except when a quorum of the members are present. Fewer than a quorum may
adjourn from time to time. (1978 Code § 3-504; amd. 1996 Code)
   E   Voting:
      1   How Vote Is Taken: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for
all ordinances, resolutions and any other action which would create a liability
against the city and in any other case at the request of any member of the city
council by a "yes" or a "no" vote and shall be recorded. Every resolution or
ordinance shall be in writing before the vote is taken. (1978 Code § 3-507;
amd. 1996 Code)
      2   Minimum Vote Required: The minimum number of votes required to pass
any ordinance, resolution or to take any action by the city council, unless
otherwise prescribed by law, shall be a majority of the members of the quorum,
but shall never be less than three (3).
         a   Any ordinance, resolution or motion of the city council having
fewer favorable votes than required herein shall be deemed defeated and
invalid, except a meeting may be adjourned to a specific time by a majority
vote of the city council even though such majority vote is less than that
required herein.
         b   A majority of the members of the city council, regardless of
number, may fill any vacancy in the city council. (1978 Code § 3-508; amd. 1996
Code)
   F   Reconsideration: Any action taken by the city council shall not be
reconsidered or rescinded at any special meeting unless the number of members
of the city council present at the special meeting is equal to or greater than
the number of members present at the meeting when the action was approved.
(1978 Code § 3-509; amd. 1996 Code)
   G   Electronic Attendance at Meetings:
      1.   Rules Statement: It is the decision of the city that any member of
the council may attend any open or closed meeting of the council via electronic
means (such as by telephone, video or internet connection); provided, that such
attendance is in compliance with these rules and Utah Code Annotated section
52-4-207.
      2.   Prerequisites: A member of the council may attend a meeting
electronically if the member meets the following conditions:
         a.   The member shall notify the city recorder at least three (3) days
in advance of the meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary communications
equipment can be arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical
arrangements will result in denial of a request for remote attendance,
including the unavailability of sufficient equipment.
         b.   The member must assert one of the following three (3) reasons why
he or she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
            (1)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability; or
            (2)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or
the business of the city; or
            (3)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other
emergency.
      3.   Authorization to Participate:
         a.   The city recorder, after receiving the electronic attendance
request, shall inform the council of the request for electronic attendance.
         b.    After establishing that a quorum is physically present at a
meeting where a member of the city desires to attend electronically, the
presiding officer shall state that: a) notice was received by the member of the
council in accordance with these rules; and b) the member will be deemed
authorized to attend the meeting electronically unless a motion objecting to
the member's electronic attendance is made, seconded and approved by a majority
of the members of the council physically present at the meeting. If no such
motion is made and seconded, or if any such motion fails to achieve the
required vote by the members of the council physically present at the meeting,
then the request by the member to attend the meeting electronically shall be
deemed approved by the council and presiding officer shall declare the
requesting member present. After such declaration by the presiding officer, the
question of a member's electronic attendance may not be reconsidered.
      4.   Adequate Equipment Required: The member participating electronically
and other members of the council must be able to communicate effectively and
members of the audience must be able to hear all communications at the meeting
site. Before allowing electronic attendance at any meeting, the council shall
provide equipment adequate to accomplish this objective at the meeting site.
      5.   Minutes: Any member attending electronically shall be considered an
off-site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting, if
the member is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall also reflect and
state specifically whenever a member is present by electronic means.
      6.   Rights to Remote Member: A member permitted to attend electronically
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as
to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically
shall be called during any vote taken and his or her vote counted and recorded
by the city recorder and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A
member attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case
of any member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce his
or her leaving and returning.
      7.   Applicability to Committees, Boards and Commissions: These rules
shall apply to all committees, boards and commissions established by authority
of the City Council.
      8.   Governor Gary Herbert's executive order suspending the Enforcement
of Provisions of Utah Code §52-4-202 and 52-4-207, and Related State Agency
Orders, Rules, and Regulations, Due to Infectious Disease COVID-19 Novel
Coronavirus. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-23-2013, eff. 4-23-2013; amd. Ord. 2020-3, 4-14-
2020, eff. 4-14-2020)
1-5-5: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND PROCEDURES:
   A   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The city council may pass any ordinance to
regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the city shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel. (1978 Code § 3-702; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the city council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1   A number;
      2   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4   An ordaining clause which states "Be it ordained by the City of
Monticello:";
      5   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
city ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this chapter;
      8   A line for the signature of the mayor or acting mayor to sign the
ordinance;
      9   A place for the city recorder/clerk to attest the ordinance and fix
the seal of the city; and
      10   Where the mayor may disapprove an ordinance passed by the city
council, the ordinance must show, that it was passed with the mayor's approval
or that if the mayor disapproved the ordinance, that it was passed over his
disapproval. If the mayor neither approves nor disapproves an ordinance, the
ordinance should show that it became effective without the approval or
disapproval of the mayor. (1978 Code § 3-704; amd. 1996 Code)
   C   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1   Ordinances passed or enacted by the city council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
city council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-704(1), (2), (3) or (4). (1978 Code § 3-705; amd.
1996 Code)
      2   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the city council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance. (1978 Code § 3-712; amd. 1996 Code)
      3   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become effective
twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days after final
passage by the city council, whichever is sooner. (1978 Code § 3-705; amd. 1996
Code)
   D   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances: All ordinances, except those
enacted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-706 to 10-3-710, before
taking effect shall be deposited in the office of the city recorder/clerk and a
short summary of the ordinance published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city, or if there is no newspaper published
therein, then by posting complete copies in three (3) public places within the
city. Any ordinance, code, or book, other than the state code, relating to
building or safety standards, city functions, administration, control, or
regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further publication
or posting, if reference is made to the code or book and at least one copy has
been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the city
recorder/clerk prior to the adoption of the ordinance by the city council. Any
state law relating to building or safety standards, city functions,
administration, control or regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect
without further publication or posting if reference is made to the state code.
The ordinance adopting the code or book shall be published in the manner
provided in Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-709 and 10-3-710. (1978 Code § 3-
711; amd. 1996 Code)
   E   Recording, Numbering And Certification Of Passage: The city recorder/
clerk shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, all ordinances
passed by the city council. The city recorder/clerk shall give each ordinance a
number, if the city council has not already so done. Immediately following each
ordinance, or codification of ordinances, the city recorder/clerk shall make or
cause to be made a certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of
publication or posting, as required. The record and memorandum, or a certified
copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage, and
publication or posting of the ordinance or codification. (1978 Code § 3-713;
amd. 1996 Code)
   F   Resolutions:
      1   Purpose Of Resolutions: Unless otherwise required by law, the city
council may exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but
not limited to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage
collection and fees charged for city services; c) establishing personnel
policies and guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the city
property. Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
(1978 Code § 3-717; amd. 1996 Code)
      2   Form Of Resolution: Any resolution passed by the city council shall
be in a form and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for
ordinances. (1978 Code § 3-718; amd. 1996 Code)
      3   No Publication Of Resolutions; Effective Date: Resolutions may become
effective without publication or posting and may take effect on passage or at a
later date as the city council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (1978 Code § 3-
719; amd. 1996 Code)
1-5-6: MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION:
   A   Powers Of Mayor: The mayor shall:
      1   Be the chief executive officer of the city; to whom the city manager
shall report;
      2   Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the city;
      3   Remit fines and forfeitures and may release any person imprisoned for
violation of any city ordinance;
      4   Report such remittance or release to the council at its next regular
session;
      5   Perform all duties prescribed by law, resolution or ordinance;
      6   Ensure that all the laws and ordinances and resolutions are
faithfully executed and observed;
      7   May at any reasonable time examine and inspect the books, papers,
records or documents of the city or of any officer, employee or agent of the
city;
      8   Report to the council the condition of the city and recommend for
council consideration any measures as deemed to be in the best interests of the
city;
      9   When necessary, call on the residents of the city over the age of
twenty one (21) years to assist in enforcing the laws of the state and
ordinances of the city;
      10   Appoint, with the advice and consent of the council, a city manager
and persons to fill vacancies on commissions or committees of the city; and
      11   The mayor shall sign all city ordinances and resolutions, and the
mayor is authorized and empowered to sign his or her name officially for and on
behalf of the city to all deeds, bonds, bills, notes, contracts, leases and
other writings to which the city is a party, when so directed by the city
council.
   B   Additional Powers And Duties Of Elected Officials: The city council may,
by resolution, prescribe additional duties, powers and responsibilities for any
elected or appointed official which are not prohibited by any specific statute,
except that the mayor may not serve as clerk and neither the mayor nor the
clerk may serve as treasurer. A justice court judge may not hold any other city
office or position of employment with the city.
   C   Appointed Officers; Residency Requirements: The city council may require
by ordinance that any or all appointed officers reside in the city. (Ord. 2015-
4, 9-8-2015, eff. 9-8-2015)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Creating Offices; Filling Vacancies
1-6-2: Bond Requirements
1-6-3: Oaths
1-6-4: Official Neglect And Misconduct
1-6-5: City Recorder/Clerk And City Treasurer
1-6-6: Chief Of Police
1-6-7: City Attorney
1-6-8: Private Work Prohibited
1-6-1: CREATING OFFICES; FILLING VACANCIES:
   A   Offices Created By Council: The City Council may create any office
deemed necessary for the government of the City and provide for filling
vacancies in elective and appointive offices. (1978 Code § 3-901; 1996 Code)
   B   Mayor To Appoint And Fill Vacancies: The Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council, may appoint and fill vacancies in all offices
provided for by law or ordinance.
   C   Continuation In Office: All appointed officers shall continue in office
until their successors are appointed and qualified. (1978 Code § 3-916; 1996
Code)
1-6-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A   Approval Of Bonds: The bonds of the Councilmembers shall be approved by
the Mayor and the bond of the Mayor shall be approved by the Council at the
first meeting of the Governing Body in January following a Municipal election.
(1978 Code § 3-822; 1996 Code)
   B   Premium Paid By City: The premium charged by a corporate surety for any
bond required by the City shall be paid by the City. (1978 Code § 3-823; 1996
Code)
   C   Additional Bonds: The Governing Body may at any time require further and
additional bonds of any or all officers elected or appointed. All bonds given
by the officers, except as otherwise provided by law, shall be filed with the
City Recorder/Clerk, except that the bond of the Recorder/Clerk shall be filed
with the Treasurer. (1978 Code § 3-825; 1996 Code)
   D   Treasurer's Bond:
      1   The City Treasurer's bond, or the bond of any person who acts as City
Treasurer, may be set by resolution or ordinance in any amount, not less than
that established by the State Money Management Council. (1978 Code § 3-821;
1996 Code)
      2   The Treasurer's bond shall be superseded by any rules, regulation or
directive of the State Money Management Council when such rule, regulation or
directive is binding on the City.
   E   Blanket Bond: The bond required in this Section may be a blanket bond.
(1978 Code § 3-819)
1-6-3: OATHS:
   A   Constitutional Oath Of Office: All officers, whether elected or
appointed, before entering on the duties of their respective offices shall
take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office. (1978 Code § 3-827;
1996 Code)
   B   Oath; Filing: The oath of office required under this Section shall be
administered by any judge, notary public, or by the City Recorder/Clerk.
Elected officials shall take their oath of office at twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon on the first Monday in January following their election or as soon
thereafter as is practical. Appointed officers shall take their oath at any
time before entering on their duties. All oaths of office shall be filed with
the City Recorder/Clerk. (1978 Code § 3-828; 1996 Code)
   C   Acts Of Officials Not Voided: No official act of any city officer shall
be invalid for the reason that he failed to take the oath of office. (1978 Code
§ 3-829; amd. 1996 Code)
1-6-4: OFFICIAL NEGLECT AND MISCONDUCT:
In case any city officer shall at any time wilfully omit to perform any duty,
or wilfully and corruptly be guilty of oppression, malconduct, misfeasance, or
malfeasance in office, the person is guilty of a class A misdemeanor 1 , shall
be removed from office, and is not eligible for any city office thereafter.
(1978 Code § 3-826; amd. 1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 76-3-204.
1-6-5: CITY RECORDER/CLERK AND CITY TREASURER:
   A   Appointment: On or before the first Monday in February following a city
election, the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall
appoint a qualified person to each of the offices of recorder/clerk and
treasurer.
   B   Ex Officio Auditor: The city recorder/clerk is ex officio the city
auditor and shall perform the duties of that office. (1978 Code § 3-916; amd.
1996 Code)
1-6-6: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A   Authority: The chief of police has the same authority as the sheriff
within the boundaries of the city of appointment. The chief has authority to:
      1   Suppress riots, disturbances, and breaches of the peace;
      2   Apprehend all persons violating state laws or city ordinances;
      3   Diligently discharge his duties and enforce all ordinances of the
city to preserve the peace, good order and protection of the rights and
property of all persons; and
      4   Attend the municipal justice court located within the city when
required, provide security for the court and obey its orders and directions.
   B   Statewide Authority 1 : This subsection is not a limitation of a police
chief's statewide authority as otherwise provided by law.
   C   Duties 2 : The chief of police:
      1   Shall:
         a   Exercise and perform the duties that are prescribed by the
legislative body;
         b   Be under the direction, control, and supervision of the city
manager or person or body that appointed the chief in the case there is not a
city manager; and
         c   On or before January 1, 2003, adopt a written policy that
prohibits the stopping, detention, or search of any person when the action is
solely motivated by considerations of race, color, ethnicity, age, or gender;
and
      2   May, with the consent of the city manager, appoint assistants to the
chief of police or marshal. (Ord. 2015-5, 9-8-2015, eff. 9-8-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-913.
2 2. UCA § 10-3-918.
1-6-7: CITY ATTORNEY:
The city attorney may prosecute violations of city ordinances, and under state
law, infractions and misdemeanors occurring within the boundaries of the city
and has the same powers in respect to the violations as are exercised by a
county attorney, including, but not limited to, granting immunity to witnesses.
The city attorney shall represent the interests of the state or the city in the
appeal of any matter prosecuted in any trial court by the city attorney. (1978
Code § 3-928; 1996 Code)
1-6-8: PRIVATE WORK PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any employee of the city to authorize or render
services or city equipment for use on any private person's property and which
is a benefit to such private person including snow removal, sewer or water line
repair or transporting garbage, except in an emergency, or as deemed to be in
the best interest of the city. (1978 Code §-3-1108; amd. 1996 Code)
ARTICLE A. CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Appointment Of City Manager
1-6A-2: Powers And Duties
1-6A-3: Exempt Service
1-6A-4: Powers Of Mayor Not Delegated To Manager
1-6A-1: APPOINTMENT OF CITY MANAGER:
The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall appoint a
city manager, who shall qualify by taking and subscribing the constitutional
oath and filing with the city recorder a bond, as fixed by the city council by
resolution. Once approved by the city council, the mayor shall sign the
contract entered into with the city manager on behalf of the city. (Ord. 2015-
3, 9-8-2015, eff. 9-8-2015)
1-6A-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers, duties, and obligations of the city manager are as follows:
   A   The administrative powers, authority, and duties are vested in the city
manager.
   B   The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city
to whom all employees of the city report. The city manager shall be accountable
to the mayor and city council for the proper administration of all city affairs
placed in the city manager's charge.
   C   The city manager, with the advice and consent of the mayor and city
council, may appoint an acting city manager during a period of vacancy in the
office or during the absence or disability of the city manager. Such acting
manager shall, while he or she is in such office, have all the
responsibilities, duties, functions and authority of the city manager.
      1   In the event that the city manager has not appointed an acting city
manager and the city manager is absent, going to be absent, or it is reasonably
anticipated that he/she will be absent for thirty (30) days or more, the mayor,
with the consent and advice of the city council, shall appoint an acting city
manager.
   D   The city manager shall be responsible for managing the internal affairs
of the city; developing, recommending and implementing city policies, rules,
regulations and procedures; reporting to the governing body; advising the
governing body regarding policy options and implementation procedures; and
being responsible for contracts administration.
   E   The city manager, or his or her designee, shall hire and, when deemed
necessary, suspend, terminate, remove, or transfer all nonelected city
employees, except the department heads shall be appointed or removed by the
city manager with the approval of the mayor after conferring with the city
council.
   F   The city manager shall direct and supervise the administration of all
city departments, offices, and agencies, except as otherwise provided by law.
   G   The city manager has the authority to develop, recommend, and implement
city policies, rules, regulations, and procedures relating to personnel,
including the implementation of the personnel policy. However, if state or
federal law requires that a personnel matter be handled in a specific manner,
then the city shall follow the governing law.
   H   The city manager shall attend meetings of the city council, unless
otherwise excused, with the right to take part in the discussion but not to
vote; to recommend to the city council for adoption of such measures, as the
city manager may deem necessary or expedient.
   I   The city manager shall prepare and submit the annual budget and capital
improvements plan to the mayor and city council annually, and keep the mayor
and city council advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city.
   J   The city manager shall perform such other duties as may be required by
this code or by the city council through ordinance or resolution.
   K   The city manager shall carry out the policies and programs established
by the mayor and city council.
   L   The city manager is authorized to execute routine service agreements and
employee separation agreements contemplated in the daily operation of the city
and included in the city's budget.
   M   The city manager shall examine and inspect the books, records, and
official papers of any office, department, agency, board, or commission of the
city and make investigations and require reports from all personnel.
   N   The city manager shall faithfully execute and enforce all applicable
laws, ordinances, rules, resolutions, and regulations, and see that all
franchises, leases, permits, contracts, licenses, and privileges granted by the
municipality are observed.
   O   The city manager is authorized to make expenditures up to the amount
established by the council through resolution.
   P   The city manager shall serve at the pleasure of the city council. The
city council may, by contract duly executed, set the terms and conditions of
employment of the city manager provided such terms are not contrary to this
article. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-8-2015, eff. 9-8-2015)
1-6A-3: EXEMPT SERVICE:
The office of city manager is designated as an exempt service employee. (Ord.
2015-3, 9-8-2015, eff. 9-8-2015)
1-6A-4: POWERS OF MAYOR NOT DELEGATED TO MANAGER:
The legislative and judicial powers of the mayor, his position as chairman of
the city council and any ex officio position the mayor shall hold shall not be
delegated to the city manager. (Ord. 2015-3, 9-8-2015, eff. 9-8-2015)
CHAPTER 7
CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
1-7-1: Consolidated City Fee Schedule
1-7-1: CONSOLIDATED CITY FEE SCHEDULE:
A consolidated fee schedule shall be maintained whereon all city fees shall be
listed in the same location. Any update of any fee will require the passing of
a resolution to amend said fee schedule. (Ord. 2009-23, 10-27-2009)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Established
2-1-2: Term Of Office; Vacancies
2-1-3: Organization
2-1-4: Duties And Powers
2-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
A Planning Commission to be composed of three (3) members. Members of the
Planning Commission shall serve with a $40 per diem for each meeting attended
with a maximum amount of $600 per year for meeting attendance. They may also be
reimbursed for any reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties as
members of the Commission. Members of the City Council may be appointed to the
Planning Commission. (1978 Code § 12-111; amd. Ord. passed - - )
2-1-2: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
The terms of the Planning Commission shall be staggered. Each member of the
Planning Commission shall serve for a term of five (5) years and until his
successor is appointed; provided, that the term of the first members shall be
such that the term of one member shall expire each year. Terms of members of
the Planning Commission shall begin on or before the first Monday in January of
each year. The City Council may remove any member of the Planning Commission
with or without cause. Vacancies shall be promptly filled in the same manner as
the original appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term. (1978 Code §
12-112; 1996 Code; amd. Ord. passed - - )
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Chairman; Adoption Of Rules: The members of the Planning Commission
shall select from their own members a chairman and such other officers as
deemed necessary and shall adopt rules and regulations for their organization
and for the transaction of business and the conduct of their proceedings.
   B.   Reports To City Council: Reports of official acts and recommendations
of the Planning Commission shall be public and made by the chairman in writing
to the City Council and shall indicate why the Planning Commission came to the
recommendation that they did. Additionally, annually at the City Council work
meeting in April the Planning Commission shall attend the meeting and present a
general report of what the Planning Commission intends to work on throughout
the year, with knowledge of changed made in the legislature.
   C.   Annual Training Requirements: Members of the Planning Commission must
annually complete the State of Utah's Open and Public Meetings Act training. A
certificate of completion must be sent to the City Recorder by the last Monday
in January of each year. If this is not completed by the last Monday in
January, the member(s) can not vote at the next meeting and may be removed by
the City Council.
   D.   Meetings: The Planning Commission shall meet at least quarterly and at
such other times as the Planning Commission may determine.
   E.   Quorum: two (2) members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a
quorum. (1978 Code § 12-113; 1996 Code; amd. Ord. passed - - )
2-1-4: DUTIES AND POWERS:
The Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties explicitly or
impliedly given planning commissions by the laws of the State. (10-9a-3-302)
(1978 Code § 12-114; amd. Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
2-2-1: Established
2-2-2: Term Of Appointment; Vacancies
2-2-3: Organization, Meetings And Records
2-2-4: Powers And Duties
2-2-5: Appeals
2-2-6: Standards For Review Of Appeals
2-2-7: Decision On Appeal
2-2-8: Variance Requests
2-2-9: Standards For Review Of Variance Requests; Decision On Variance Requests
2-2-10: Appeals From Board Decisions
2-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created a board of adjustment which shall consist of five (5)
members, each to be appointed by the city council. Members of the board of
adjustment shall serve without compensation, except for reasonable expenses
incurred in performing their duties as members of the board. (Ord. 2009-13, 3-
24-2009, eff. 4-13-2009)
2-2-2: TERM OF APPOINTMENT; VACANCIES:
Each member of the board of adjustment shall be appointed for a term of five
(5) years; provided that the terms of the members of the board of adjustment
shall be such that the term of one member shall expire each year. Vacancies
resulting from resignation, removal, or other circumstances where full terms
are not served shall be filled for the remainder of the term for which
replacement is appointed by the city council. (Ord. 2009-13, 3-24-2009, eff. 4-
13-2009)
2-2-3: ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS AND RECORDS:
The board of adjustment shall organize and elect a chair. Meetings of the board
of adjustment shall be held at least annually and as matters described herein
arise for their review. The chair, or in her/his absence, the acting chair,
shall conduct all meetings. All meetings will be open to the public. The board
of adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each
member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote indicating such
facts, and shall keep such records of its examinations and other official acts,
all of which shall be filed immediately by the city recorder and shall be
public record. "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall be followed in the conduct of
meetings wherever applicable. (Ord. 2009-13, 3-24-2009, eff. 4-13-2009)
2-2-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A   The powers and duties of the board of adjustment shall be to hear and
decide:
      1   Requests for variances from the terms of the land use (zoning)
ordinances of the city of Monticello; and
      2   Appeals from decisions applying the land use (zoning) ordinances.
   B   The board of adjustment:
      1   Shall:
         a   Act in a quasi-judicial manner; and
         b   Serve as the final arbiter of issues involving the interpretation
or application of land use ordinances; and
      2   May not entertain an appeal of a matter in which the board of
adjustment, or any participating member, had first acted as the land use
authority.
   C   Any adversely affected party must present to the board of adjustment
every theory or relief that it can raise in district court.
   D   The board of adjustment will convene only if a quorum (at least 3) of
its members is present.
   E   The board of adjustment will only act upon the vote of a majority of its
convened members. (Ord. 2009-13, 3-24-2009, eff. 4-13-2009)
2-2-5: APPEALS:
The applicant, a board or officer of the municipality, or any other person or
entity adversely affected by a decision administering or interpreting a land
use (zoning) ordinance may appeal that decision to the board of adjustment by
alleging that there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the land use authority (e.g., zoning administrator,
planning commission) in the administration or interpretation of the land use
ordinance. (Ord. 2009-13, 3-24-2009, eff. 4-13-2009)
2-2-6: STANDARDS FOR REVIEW OF APPEALS:
   A   Such appeal must be made by completing a written application and
submitting it, along with the application fee, to the zoning administrator
within thirty (30) days of the land use authority's decision.
   B   Within fifteen (15) days of filing of such appeal, the board of
adjustment hearing date shall be fixed. This date shall be the earliest a
quorum can be convened and the time set at six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M.
   C   Only decisions applying to the city's land use (zoning) ordinances may
be appealed to the board of adjustment.
   D   A person may not appeal, and the board of adjustment may not consider,
any land use (zoning) ordinance amendments.
   E   Appeals may not be used to waive, modify, or "vary" the terms or
requirements of the land use (zoning) ordinance.
   F   The board of adjustment may not allow or consider public clamor or
comment during the appeal hearing.
   G   In processing each application for appeal, the board of adjustment will
cite the law, and have the minutes reflect that the law was read and
interpreted to the facts of the case, and that every effort was made to apply
the law as written to the specific situation.
   H   The person or entity making the appeal has the burden of proving an
error has been made. (Ord. 2009-13, 3-24-2009, eff. 4-13-2009)
2-2-7: DECISION ON APPEAL:
In exercising the above mentioned powers, the board of adjustment may affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination of the land use authority. (Ord. 2009-13, 3-24-2009, eff. 4-13-
2009)
2-2-8: VARIANCE REQUESTS:
Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the requirements of a
land use ordinance as applied to a parcel of property that she/he owns, leases,
or in which she/he holds some other beneficial interest may apply to the board
of adjustment for a variance from the terms of the land use (zoning) ordinance.
(Ord. 2009-13, 3-24-2009, eff. 4-13-2009)
2-2-9: STANDARDS FOR REVIEW OF VARIANCE REQUESTS; DECISION ON VARIANCE
REQUESTS:
   A   Such requests for variance must be made by completing a written
application and submitting it, along with the application fee, to the zoning
administrator within thirty (30) days of the land use authority's decision.
   B   Within fifteen (15) days of filing of such request, the board of
adjustment hearing date shall be fixed. This date shall be the earliest a
quorum can be convened and the time set at six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M.
   C   The board of adjustment may grant a variance only if all five (5) of the
following conditions are met as per state law:
      1   Literal enforcement of the ordinance would cause an unreasonable
hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general
purpose of the land use (zoning) ordinances;
      2   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not
generally apply to other properties in the same zone;
      3   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial
property right possessed by other property in the same zone;
      4   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will
not be contrary to the public interest; and
      5   The spirit of the land use (zoning) ordinance is observed and
substantial justice done.
   D   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use (zoning)
ordinance would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection C1 of this
section, the board of adjustment may not find an unreasonable hardship unless
the alleged hardship:
      1   Is located on or associated with the property for which the variance
is sought; and
      2   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
conditions that are general to the neighborhood.
   E   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use (zoning)
ordinance would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection C1 of this
section, the board of adjustment may not find an unreasonable hardship if the
hardship is self-imposed or economic.
   F   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances attached
to the property under subsection C2 of this section, the board of adjustment
may find that special circumstances exist only if the special circumstances:
      1   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
      2   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in the
same zone.
   G   The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the
conditions justifying a variance have been met.
   H   Variances run with the land.
   I   The board of adjustment may not grant a use variance.
   J   In granting a variance, the board of adjustment may impose additional
requirements on the applicant that will:
      1   Mitigate any harmful affects of the variance; or
      2   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified. (Ord. 2009-13, 3-24-2009, eff. 4-13-2009)
2-2-10: APPEALS FROM BOARD DECISIONS:
Any person adversely affected by any decision of the board of adjustment may
petition the district court for a review of the decision; provided that
petition for such review is presented to the court within thirty (30) days
after the issuance of such decision by the office of the board of adjustment.
(Ord. 2009-13, 3-24-2009, eff. 4-13-2009)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Assessor And Collector
3-1-3: Business License Required
3-1-4: Application For License; Contents
3-1-5: Annual License Fees
3-1-6: Payment Dates
3-1-7: Contents Of Certificate Of License
3-1-8: Display Certificate Of License
3-1-9: Transfer Of License Prohibited
3-1-10: Branch Establishments
3-1-11: Joint Business Licenses
3-1-12: Reciprocal Recognition Of Licenses For Delivery Of Goods
3-1-13: Exemptions To License
3-1-14: Revocation Or Denial Of License
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Title:
BUSINESS: Includes all activities engaged in within the City carried on for the
purpose of gain or economic profit, except that the acts of employees rendering
service to employers shall not be included in the term business unless
otherwise specifically provided.
EACH SEPARATE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate establishment or place of
operation, whether or not operating under the same name, within the City,
including a home or other place of lodging if the same is held out by
advertisements, listings or otherwise as the establishment or place of
operation of a person engaging in the business of selling tangible, personal
property at either retail or wholesale, or both, in the City.
EMPLOYEE: The operator or manager of a place of business and any persons
employed in the operation of said place of business in any capacity and also
any salesman or agent engaged in the operation of the place of business in any
capacity.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Includes, but is not limited to, the sale of tangible
personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or
property and the rendering of personal services for others for a consideration
by persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business, occupation or
other calling, except the rendering of personal services by an employee to his
employer under any contract of personal employment.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate location maintained or operated by the
licensee within the City from which business activity is conducted or
transacted.
WHOLESALE: A sale of tangible personal property by wholesalers to retail
merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers for resale, and does not
include a sale by wholesalers or retailers to users or consumers not for
resale, except as otherwise specified.
WHOLESALER: A person doing a regularly organized wholesale or jobbing business
and selling to retail merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers, for the
purpose of resale. (1978 Code § 9-111; 1996 Code)
3-1-2: LICENSE ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR:
The Recorder/Clerk is designated and appointed as ex-officio assessor of
license fees for the City. On receipt of any application for a license, the
Recorder/Clerk shall assess the amount due thereon and shall collect all
license fees based upon the rate established. He shall enforce all provisions
of this Title, and shall cause to be filed complaints against all persons
violating any of the provisions of this title. (1978 Code § 9-113; amd. 1996
Code)
3-1-3: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be a Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-6 of this Code for any person to transact, engage in or carry on any
business, trade, profession, calling or to operate a vending, pinball or coin
operated machine without first receiving the class or type of license required
by the City. Any person conducting business in the Monticello City limits who
is of "minor status" according to Utah Code section 15-2-1, or S.B. 81, will
not be required to obtain a business license.
   A   Home Occupations: The following home occupations are required to obtain
and maintain a current City business license and meet all requirements of
section
10-2-4 of this Code. All other home occupations may operate without a City
business license, and are considered "exempt", but must comply with the
remainder of this chapter as well as all applicable local, State, and Federal
laws.
      1   In home child or adult care and preschool businesses.
      2   Businesses that require or attract more than ten (10) vehicle trips
per day, including but not limited to package delivery, client visits, and
employee trips.
      3   Any business that is required to have a fire inspection; and any
business that is required to obtain a license from another government agency,
such as the Department of Health. (Ord. 2018-3, 10-9-2018, eff. 10-9-2018)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS:
All applications for license shall include:
   A   The name of the person desiring a license.
   B   The kind of license desired, stating the business, calling, trade or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on.
   C   The class of license desired, if such licenses are divided into classes.
   D   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on, giving the street number if the business calling, trade or
profession is to be carried on in any building or enclosure having such number.
   E   The period of time for which such license is desired to be issued.
   F   An agreement to comply with all local ordinances and State laws.
   G   An agreement to provide to the City copies of valid State occupational/
professional or alcoholic beverage licenses, as applicable. (1978 Code § 9-116;
amd. 1996 Code)
3-1-5: ANNUAL LICENSE FEES:
   A   Schedule: The business, location, trade, calling or profession of every
person engaged in a business in the City shall pay an annual license fee, which
shall be established by resolution. (1978 Code § 9-211; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Penalty For Late Payment: If any license fee is not paid within thirty
(30) days of the due date, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of such
license fee shall be added to the original amount thereof. No license shall be
issued until all penalties legally assessed have been paid in full. (1978 Code
§ 9-115)
3-1-6: PAYMENT DATES:
All license fees shall be due and payable as follows, except as may be
otherwise provided.
   A   Annual Fees Due: Annual fees shall be payable before each calendar year
in advance. The annual license shall date from January 1 of each year and shall
expire on December 31 of each year.
   B   Delinquent: Annual fees shall be due on the first day of each calendar
year and shall become delinquent if not paid by February 1 each year. (1978
Code § 9-114; amd. 1996 Code)
3-1-7: CONTENTS OF CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
All certificates of license shall be signed by the Recorder/Clerk, and shall
contain the following information:
   A   Name: The name of the person to whom such certificate has been issued.
   B   Amount: The amount paid.
   C   Type: The type of license and the class of such license if licenses are
divided into classes.
   D   Term: The term of the license with the commencing date and the date of
its expiration.
   E   Location: The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is
to be conducted. (1978 Code § 9-117; amd. 1996 Code)
3-1-8: DISPLAY CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
   A   Posted In Conspicuous Place: Every certificate of license issued under
this title shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall
of the building, room or office of the place of business so that the same may
be easily seen. When such certificate of license has expired, it shall be
removed by the licensee from such place in which it has been posted, and no
certificate of license which is not in force and effect shall be permitted to
remain posted upon the wall or any part of any room within the place of
business. If the licensee's business is such that a license cannot be displayed
due to the transient or mobile nature of the business, then the licensee shall
carry the license on his person ready to be shown on request by an authorized
officer during all such time or times while the licensee is engaged in or
pursuing the business for which a license is granted.
   B   Coin-Operated Machine: In the event the license is for a coin-operated
machine or device, the certificate shall be attached or displayed in the
immediate vicinity of the machine for which it has been issued. (1978 Code § 9-
118)
3-1-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No license granted or issued under any ordinance of the City shall be assigned
or transferred to any other person. It shall not be deemed to authorize any
person other than therein named to do business or to authorize any other
business, calling, trade or profession than is therein named unless by
permission of the City Council. (1978 Code § 9-119)
3-1-10: BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate license must be obtained for each separate place of business in the
City and each license shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the
business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner designated in such
license; provided, that warehouses and distributing places used in connection
with or incident to a business licensed under this Title shall not be deemed to
be separate places of business or branch establishments. (1978 Code § 9-121)
3-1-11: JOINT BUSINESS LICENSES:
Whenever any person is engaged in two (2) or more businesses at the same
location within the City, such person shall not be required to obtain separate
licenses for conducting each of such businesses, but shall be issued one
license which shall specify on its face all such businesses. The sale of
alcohol or any other product or service requiring an additional license shall
be subject to such additional licensing requirement. Where two (2) or more
persons conduct separate businesses at the same location, each such person
shall obtain a license for such business and pay the required license fee for
such business. (1978 Code § 9-122; 1996 Code)
3-1-12: RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION OF LICENSES FOR DELIVERY OF GOODS:
   A   Exceptions: No license shall be required for operation of any vehicle or
equipment in the City when:
      1   Such vehicle is merely passing through the City.
      2   Such vehicle is used exclusively in intercity or interstate commerce.
   B   Delivery Of Property: No license shall be required by Chapters 1, 2 or 4
of this Title of any person whose only business activity in the City is the
mere delivery in the City of property sold by him at a regular place of
business maintained by him outside the City where:
      1   Such person's business is at the time of such delivery licensed by
the Utah municipality or county in which such place of business is situated;
and,
      2   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of the City
making deliveries within its jurisdiction the same privileges, upon
substantially the same terms, as are granted by this Section; and,
      3   Neither the property delivered nor any of the facilities by which it
was manufactured, produced or processed are subject to inspection by authority
of the City for compliance with health or sanitary standards prescribed by the
City; and,
      4   The truck or other conveyance by which such delivery is made
prominently displays at all times a license plate or symbol issued by the said
licensing authority to evidence such business license. Such plate or symbol
shall identify the licensing authority by which it is issued, shall indicate
that it evidences a license issued thereby, and shall specify the year or term
for which it is effective.
   C   Certification Of Section: The Recorder/Clerk shall, at the request of
any person, certify a copy of this Section to any municipality or county of the
State to which a copy has not previously been certified. (1978 Code § 9-123)
3-1-13: EXEMPTIONS TO LICENSE:
   A   Tax Exempt Businesses: No license fee shall be imposed under Chapters 1
and 2 of this Title on:
      1   Any person engaged in business for solely religious, charitable,
eleemosynary or other types of strictly nonprofit purpose which is tax exempt
in such activities under the laws of the United States and the State of Utah.
      2   Any person engaged in a business specifically exempted from municipal
taxation and fees by the laws of the United States or the State of Utah.
      3   Any person not maintaining a place of business within the City who
has paid a like or similar license tax or fee to some other taxing unit within
the State of Utah and which taxing unit exempts from its license tax or fee, by
reciprocal agreement or otherwise, businesses domiciled in the City and doing
business in such taxing unit.
   B   Reciprocal Agreements With Other Agencies: The license assessor and
collector may, with approval of the City Council, enter into reciprocal
agreements with the proper officials of other taxing units, as may be deemed
equitable and proper in effecting the exemption provided for in subsection A of
this Section. (1978 Code § 9-124; 1996 Code)
3-1-14: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A   Failure To Comply; Unlawful Activities: Any license issued pursuant to
the provisions of this Code or of any ordinance of the City may be revoked and
any application denied by the City Council because of:
      1   The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the
conditions and requirements of this Code or any ordinance of the City.
      2   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where the
business is conducted.
   B   Notice To Licensee: Prior to the revocation of a license or denial of an
application to renew business license, the licensee or applicant shall be given
a notice which shall state in substance that the City Council intends to revoke
the business license or deny the application to renew, together with the reason
or reasons therefor, at a regular or special meeting of the City Council (which
shall be at least 10 days and not more than 30 days from the date notice is
sent), and that the licensee or applicant has a right to appear, to be
represented by counsel, to hear the evidence against him, to cross-examine
witnesses and to present evidence as to why the license should not be revoked
or the application denied.
   C   Not Applicable To Businesses Not Previously Licensed: The preceding
subsection
3-1-14B shall not apply to applications for licenses for businesses which have
not previously been licensed by the City, and such applicants need only be
informed that their application has been denied. (1978 Code § 9-120)
CHAPTER 2
RESORT COMMUNITIES SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Tax Levied
3-2-3: Exemptions
3-2-4: Sales Tax License
3-2-5: Business License
3-2-6: Remittances And Collection
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as is expressly stated otherwise, this Chapter shall be interpreted
consistently with the provisions of the Utah Sales and Use Tax Act. The
statutory definitions contained in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-102, as
amended, are hereby incorporated by reference. (Ord. 1997-3, 12-1-1997, eff. 1-
1-1998)
3-2-2: TAX LEVIED:
In addition to all other sales taxes, there is hereby levied against the
purchaser a Resort Communities Sales Tax at the rate of five-tenths percent
(0.5%), upon the following types of transactions within Monticello City limits:
   A   Retail sales of tangible personal property;
   B   Sums paid to common carriers or telecommunications providers for
transportation services and intrastate telecommunications, respectively;
   C   Meals sold;
   D   Admissions fees for movies, theatrical productions, museums,
exhibitions, concerts, shows of any type, rodeos, sporting events, amusement
events, golf courses, or any similar recreational, cultural, or entertainment-
oriented activity, however denominated;
   E   Laundry and dry-cleaning services;
   F   Services for the repair, maintenance or installation of tangible
personal property;
   G   Leases and rentals of tangible personal property, provided the property
is maintained, stored, or used within the City limits;
   H   Transient public accommodations; and
   I   All other transactions subject to taxation pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-103, as amended. (Ord. 1997-3, 12-1-1997, eff. 1-1-
1998)
3-2-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following transactions are exempt from taxes assessed under this Chapter:
   A   Sales of a single item where the total purchase price is two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or more;
   B   Wholesale transactions in which goods are sold to a person holding a
sales tax license and where the goods are held for resale to the ultimate
consumer;
   C   All sales specifically exempted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section
59-12-104, as amended, including for purposes of illustration only: motor
fuels, food sales of less than one dollar ($1.00) from vending machines; sales
by religious or charitable institutions; newspaper sales; purchases of food
under the Federal food stamps program; sales of medicine; and sales of
agricultural equipment not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in
value;
   D   The amount of any sales transaction, otherwise subject to this Chapter,
which represents sales and use taxes paid to the State pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-103, as amended. (Ord. 1997-3, 12-1-1997, eff. 1-1-
1998)
3-2-4: SALES TAX LICENSE:
Every person or entity engaging in sales subject to this Chapter shall obtain a
sales tax license as required by Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106. (Ord.
1997-3, 12-1-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
3-2-5: BUSINESS LICENSE:
Every person or entity engaging in sales subject to this Chapter shall obtain a
Monticello Business License as required by Title 3, Chapter 1, of this Code.
(Ord. 1997-3, 12-1-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
3-2-6: REMITTANCES AND COLLECTION:
   A   The City shall contract with the Utah State Tax Commission for
assessment, administration, and enforcement services for all taxes assessed
under this Chapter. Sums collected shall be remitted to the City in accordance
with that agreement.
   B   All persons subject to this Chapter shall make remittances in accordance
with rules and regulations promulgated by the Commission and as is otherwise
mandated by State law.
   C   The tax enacted under this Chapter shall be paid quarterly, on the last
day of January, April, July, and October of each calendar year, unless the
licensee is required to submit monthly remittances pursuant to State law or
regulations promulgated by the Commission.
   D   Licensees and all vendors or other persons subject to this Chapter,
including persons acquiring a business or its assets, are liable for all
penalties, interest, costs of collection, statutory liens, and related remedies
available to the Commission for collection of unpaid taxes under the Utah Sales
and Use Tax Act, which remedies are hereby incorporated by reference. (Ord.
1997-3, 12-1-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
CHAPTER 3
SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Title
3-3-2: Purpose
3-3-3: Effective Date
3-3-4: Tax Imposed; Compliance With Statute; Exclusions
3-3-5: Penalty
3-3-6: Severability
3-3-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
MONTICELLO. (Ord. 90-1, 1-24-1990)
3-3-2: PURPOSE:
   A   Authority: The 48th Session of the Utah Legislature of Utah has
authorized the counties and municipalities of the State of Utah to enact sales
and use tax ordinances imposing a one percent (1%) tax.
   B   Conform To Requirements: It is the purpose of this Chapter to conform
the sales and use tax of the City to the requirements of the Sales and Use Tax
Act, chapter 12 of title 59, Utah Code Annotated, as currently amended. (Ord.
90-1, 1-24-1990)
3-3-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The Ordinance, codified in this Chapter, shall become effective as of one
minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M., January 1, 1990. (Ord. 90-1, 1-24-
1990)
3-3-4: TAX IMPOSED; COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTE; EXCLUSIONS:
   A   Sales Tax: From and after the effective date of the Ordinance codified
in this Chapter, there is levied and there shall be collected and paid a tax
upon every retail sale of tangible personal property, services and meals made
within the City at the rate of one percent (1%).
   B   Excise Tax: An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or
other consumption in this City of tangible personal property from any retailer
on or after the operative date of this Chapter at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the sales price of the property.
   C   Determine Place Of Business: For the purpose of this Chapter, all retail
sales shall be presumed to have been consummated at the place of business
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules and
regulations prescribed by and adopted by the State Tax Commission. Public
utilities as defined by title 54, Utah Code Annotated, shall not be obligated
to determine the place or places within any county or municipality where public
utilities services are rendered, but the place of sale or the sales tax revenue
arising from such service allocable to the City shall be determined by the
State Tax Commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   D   Statute Adopted: Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act, all of
the provisions of chapter 12, title 59, Utah Code Annotated, as amended, and in
force and effect on the effective date of this Chapter, insofar as they relate
to sales taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this Chapter as though fully set forth herein.
   E   Substitution Of Terms In Statute: Wherever, and to the extent that in
chapter 12 of title 59, Utah Code Annotated, the State is named or referred to
as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor.
Nothing in subsection D shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of
the City for the word "State" when that word is used as part of the title of
the State Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of the State, nor shall the
name of the City be substituted for that of the State in any section when the
result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the
City or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission
in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of the
Chapter.
   F   Additional License Not Required: If an annual license has been issued to
a retailer under section 59-12-106 of the Utah Code Annotated, an additional
license shall not be required by reason of this Chapter.
   G   Exclusions: There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or
charged by which the tax is measured:
      1   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State upon a
retailer or consumer; and
      2   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax
has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality and
any county in the State, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by that
county or municipality in accordance with the Sales and Use Tax Act. (Ord. 90-
1, 1-24-1990)
3-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code. (Ord. 90-1, 1-24-1990; 1996 Code)
3-3-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any Section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
Chapter, including but not limited to any exemption, is for any reason held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Chapter. It is the intention of the City Council that each
separate provision of this Chapter shall be deemed independent of all other
provisions herein. (Ord. 90-1, 1-24-1990)
ARTICLE A. HIGHWAYS OR PUBLIC TRANSIT SYSTEM TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Tax Imposed
3-3A-2: Compliance With State Provisions
3-3A-1: TAX IMPOSED:
   A   There is levied and there shall be collected and paid a tax upon all
sales and uses of tangible personal property, services, meals and any and all
other sales and services described in section 59-12-103(1), Utah Code Annotated
1953, within the city of Monticello at the rate of three-tenths (3/10) of one
percent (1%).
   B   For the purpose of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed to
have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or his
agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out of state destination. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed by and adopted by
the state tax commission. Public utilities as defined by title 54, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within
any county or municipality where public utilities services are rendered, but
the place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable
to the city shall be as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an
appropriate formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by it. (Ord. 2008-3, 12-10-2008)
3-3A-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE PROVISIONS:
   A   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all provisions
of chapter 12, title 59, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, and in force and
effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales taxes,
excepting section 59-12-101 thereof, are adopted and made a part of this
article as though fully set forth herein.
   B   Wherever, and to the extent that in chapter 12, title 59, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of the city of Monticello shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in
this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city
for the word "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state
tax commission, or of the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name
of the city be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result
of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the
municipality or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax
commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article.
   C   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by which
the tax is measured:
      1   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state of Utah upon
a retailer or consumer;
      2   The gross receipts from the sale or the cost of storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax has
become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality and any
county in the state of Utah, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act.
All funds derived from the imposition of the highways tax shall be used or set
aside for the use in construction and maintenance of streets and highways
within the city of Monticello.
   D   Any amendments made to part 1, chapter 12, title 59, Utah Code Annotated
1953, as amended, which would be applicable to the city of Monticello for the
purposes of carrying out this article are incorporated herein by reference and
shall be effective upon the date that they are effective as a Utah statute.
(Ord. 2008-3, 12-10-2008)
ARTICLE B. BOTANICAL, CULTURAL, RECREATIONAL, AND ZOOLOGICAL ORGANIZATIONS OR
FACILITIES TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Tax Imposed
3-3B-2: Compliance With State Provisions
3-3B-1: TAX IMPOSED:
   A   There is levied and there shall be collected and paid a tax upon all
sales and uses of tangible personal property, services, meals and any and all
other sales and services described in section 59-12-103(1), Utah Code Annotated
1953, within the city of Monticello at the rate of one-tenth (1/10) of one
percent (1%).
   B   For the purpose of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed to
have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or his
agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out of state destination. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed by and adopted by
the state tax commission. Public utilities as defined by title 54, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within
any county or municipality where public utilities services are rendered, but
the place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable
to the city shall be as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an
appropriate formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by it. (Ord. 2008-4, 12-10-2008)
3-3B-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE PROVISIONS:
   A   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all provisions
of chapter 12, title 59, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, and in force and
effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales taxes,
excepting section 59-12-101 thereof, are adopted and made a part of this
article as though fully set forth herein.
   B   Wherever, and to the extent that in chapter 12, title 59, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of the city of Monticello shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in
this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city
for the word "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state
tax commission, or of the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name
of the city be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result
of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the
municipality or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax
commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article.
   C   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by which
the tax is measured:
      1   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state of Utah upon
a retailer or consumer;
      2   The gross receipts from the sale or the cost of storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax has
become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality and any
county in the state of Utah, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act.
All funds derived from the botanical, cultural, recreational, and zoological
organizations or facilities tax shall be used or set aside for those purposes
allowed under part 14, chapter 12, title 59, Utah code.
   D   Any amendments made to part 1, chapter 12, title 59, Utah Code Annotated
1953, as amended, which would be applicable to the city of Monticello for the
purposes of carrying out this article are incorporated herein by reference and
shall be effective upon the date that they are effective as a Utah statute.
(Ord. 2008-4, 12-10-2008)
CHAPTER 4
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-4-1: State Statute Adopted
3-4-2: Application For License And Renewal License
3-4-3: Fees
3-4-4: Referral To Chief Of Police
3-4-5: Bond Required (Rep. by Ord. 2014-3, 5-13-2014, eff. 5-13-2014)
3-4-6: Department Of Health Permit
3-4-7: Alcoholic Training And Education
3-4-8: Classifications Of Licenses
3-4-9: Purchase Of Alcoholic Beverages For Resale
3-4-10: Separate License For Each Place Of Business; Display Of License
3-4-11: License Not Transferable
3-4-12: Restrictions
3-4-13: Inspection Of Premises
3-4-14: Disqualification For Conviction Of Crime
3-4-15: Revocation Or Suspension
3-4-16: Penalty
3-4-1: STATE STATUTE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah alcoholic beverage control act (title 32A), as amended,
are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall be
considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation shall subject
the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded
hereunder. (1996 Code)
3-4-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND RENEWAL LICENSE:
   A   Verified: All applications for alcoholic beverage licenses authorized by
this chapter shall be verified and shall be filed with the recorder/clerk. The
application must state the applicant's name in full, that he understands and
has read and complied with the requirements, and that he possesses the
qualifications specified in the alcoholic beverage control act and this
chapter. If the applicant is a copartnership, the names and addresses of all
partners, and if a corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and
directors, must be stated.
   B   Subscribed: The application must be subscribed by the applicant who
shall state under oath that the facts therein contained are true. (1978 Code §
9-417; amd. 1996 Code)
   C   Renewal: All applications for renewal licenses filed by the holders of
existing licenses shall be filed with the recorder/clerk at least thirty (30)
days prior to the expiration date of the then issued license. Any person who
fails to file such application within the time limit shall close his licensed
premises on the expiration date of the then issued license and shall keep the
premises closed for any and all business for the sale of alcoholic beverages
until the date his new license is issued by the city council. (1978 Code § 9-
419; amd. 1996 Code)
3-4-3: FEES:
   A   Annual Regulatory License Fee: In addition to any other business license
fee which any person or place of business may be required to pay, there is
hereby imposed on the business location of every person engaged in the sale or
dispensing of alcoholic beverages an annual regulatory license fee. The amount
of the annual regulatory fee will be set by resolution of the city council,
according to the license classification. (Ord. 95-6, 12-13-1995)
   B   License Fee To Accompany Application: Applications provided for in this
chapter shall be accompanied by the fees provided in this section. The fee
shall be returned to the applicant if the application is denied. (1978 Code §
9-415)
3-4-4: REFERRAL TO CHIEF OF POLICE:
All new applications filed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be referred to the chief of police for inspection and report. The chief
of police shall, when possible, within seven (7) days after receiving such
application, sign testifying of the general reputation and character of the
persons who habitually frequent such place; the nature and kind of business
conducted at such place by the applicant, by any other person, or by the
applicant at any such place; whether gambling is or has been permitted on the
premises or by the applicant at any other place; and the proximity of such
premises to any school, church, park or library. (Ord. 2014-3, 5-13-2014, eff.
5-13-2014)
3-4-5: BOND REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 2014-3, 5-13-2014, eff. 5-13-2014)
3-4-6: DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH PERMIT:
No license under this chapter shall be issued until the applicant therefor
shall have first procured from the Southeastern Utah health district a permit
which shall show that the premises to be licensed are in a sanitary condition
and that the equipment used in the storage, distribution or sale of alcoholic
beverages complies with all the health regulations of the city and the state of
Utah. (1978 Code § 9-422; amd. 1996 Code)
3-4-7: ALCOHOLIC TRAINING AND EDUCATION:
   A   Required: Beginning July 1, 1987, no person shall be granted a license
to operate or maintain a trade, profession or calling, the transaction or
carrying on of which requires a license, within the city if such person
operates an establishment which, as part of its business, serves alcoholic
beverages as defined in section 32A-1-105(2), Utah Code Annotated, to the
public for consumption on the premises, unless that person shall show by
certificate granted by the Utah department of alcoholic beverage control, or by
adequate proof of the existence of such certificate, that each employee of the
business engaging in the serving, selling or furnishing of such alcohol on the
premises has completed the alcoholic training and education seminar, as
required in section 62A-8-403, Utah Code Annotated.
   B   New Employees: Every new employee hired after the licensee has been
licensed in compliance with subsection A of this section, who is required to
complete this seminar, shall complete the seminar within six (6) months of
commencing employment. Violation of this section will result in revocation of
the license granted, unless compliance is completed within two (2) months of
the time that licensee first became aware that such violation occurred. (Ord.
92-2, 1-22-1992)
3-4-8: CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES:
Retail alcoholic beverage licenses shall be of the following kinds, shall carry
the following privileges, and shall be known as: class A beer, class B beer,
class C beer and liquor consumption, and temporary beer.
   A   Class A Beer License: Class A beer retail licenses shall entitle the
licensee to sell beer on the premises, in original sealed containers no larger
than two liters (2 l), for consumption off the premises, in accordance with the
ordinances of the city, provided beer is not sold by minors except under the
supervision of a person twenty one (21) years of age or older who is on the
premises.
   B   Class B Beer License: Class B Beer retail licenses shall entitle the
licensee to sell beer in the original containers, and on draft, in containers
no larger than two (2) liters, for on-premises consumption; beer in sealed
containers no larger than two (2) liters may be sold for consumption off-
premises in accordance with the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, and the
ordinances of the City.
   C   Class C Beer And Liquor Consumption License: Class C Beer and Liquor
Consumption licenses shall entitle restaurant and private club licensees to
sell liquor and beer for consumption on the premises, and to sell beer in
sealed containers no larger than two (2) liters, for off-premises consumption,
as specifically defined in, and in accordance with the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act.
   D   Temporary Beer License: Temporary beer licenses, for sale or dispensing
of beer, may be issued for a period of time not to exceed thirty (30) days, and
in accordance with the ordinances of the City. (Ord. 95-6, 12-13-1995)
3-4-9: PURCHASE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FOR RESALE:
It is a Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code for any licensee to purchase or acquire, or to have or
possess for the purpose of sale or distribution, any alcoholic beverage except
that which he shall have lawfully purchased, as defined in the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act. (Ord. 95-6, 12-13-1995; 1996 Code)
3-4-10: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS; DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
A separate license shall be required for each place of sale and the license
shall at all times be conspicuously displayed in the place to which it shall
refer or for which it shall be issued. All licensees shall comply with the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act and the regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Commission. (1978 Code § 9-411C)
3-4-11: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
Licenses issued pursuant to this Chapter shall not be transferrable, and if
revoked by the City Council, the fee paid by the licensee to the City for the
license shall be forfeited to the City. (1978 Code § 9-423)
3-4-12: RESTRICTIONS:
The following restrictions shall apply to all establishments within the City
where alcoholic beverages are sold:
   A   Location Of Business; Exception; Variance:
      1   No Class B, Class C, or Temporary alcoholic beverage license shall be
granted to a business located within six hundred feet (600') of any public or
private school, church, public library, public playground or park, measured
from the nearest entrance of the outlet by following the shortest route of
either ordinary pedestrian traffic or, where applicable, vehicular travel along
public thoroughfares, whichever is the closer, to the property boundary of the
public or private school, church, public library, public playground, school
playground or park; and within two hundred feet (200') if measured in a
straight line from the nearest entrance of the proposed outlet to the nearest
property boundary of the public or private school, church, public library,
public playground, school playground or park. (Ord. 96-6, 12-13-1995; 1996
Code)
      2   No Class A alcoholic beverage licenses, for sale of beer for off-
premises consumption, shall be granted to any business located within six
hundred feet (600') of any public or private school or church, measured from
the nearest entrance of the outlet by following the shortest route of either
ordinary pedestrian traffic or, where applicable, vehicular travel along public
thoroughfares, whichever is the closer, to the property boundary of the public
or private school or church; and within two hundred feet (200') if measured in
a straight line from the nearest entrance of the proposed outlet to the nearest
property boundary of the public or private school or church. (1996 Code)
      3   If compliance with distance requirements would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties, or exceptional and undue hardships, a
variance may be required of the City Council. Following a public hearing, a
variance may or may not be granted by the City Council. Should the City grant a
variance for a Class B or C license, final authority regarding State licensure
would require approval of the variance by the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Commission, as defined in chapters 4, 5 and 10, title 32A, Utah Code Annotated.
   B   Conduct Of Employees And Entertainers: Lewd attire and/or sexually-
oriented conduct of employees and entertainers, as explicitly defined in
section 32A-10-206, subsections 10 and 13, Utah Code Annotated, are prohibited.
Furthermore, entertainers are prohibited in this City from performing
unclothed, or in attire, costume or clothing that exposes to view any portion
of the female breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic
hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva, or genitals.
   C   Giving, Selling And Providing Alcoholic Beverages To Specific Persons:
It is unlawful for any person to give, sell, or otherwise provide alcoholic
beverages for consumption to:
      1   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
      2   Any person who is apparently under the influence of intoxicating
alcoholic beverages or products or drugs;
      3   Any person whom the person furnishing the alcoholic beverage knew or
should have known from the circumstances was under the influence of
intoxicating alcoholic beverages or products or drugs; or
      4   Any person who is a known interdicted person.
   D   Business Or Premises Where Gasoline Sold: Only a Class A beer license
may be granted to any person to sell beer at any business or premises where
gasoline for use in motor vehicles is sold.
   E   Hours Of Alcoholic Beverage Sales: It shall be unlawful to sell or
otherwise furnish or dispose of an alcoholic beverage, whether or not the
premises are open to the public, during the following days and hours, according
to license classification:
      1   Class A Beer License: Beer may not be sold between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
      2   Class B Beer License: Beer may not be sold between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
      3   Class C Beer And Liquor Consumption License:
         a   Restaurants: Liquor may not be sold or offered for sale on the day
of any election, until after the polls close, including regular general,
regular primary, special state-wide, municipal, special district or school
elections; or on any other day between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon. Beer may not be sold between the
hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.; and
         b   Private Clubs: Liquor may not be sold or offered for sale on the
day of any election, until after the polls close, including regular general,
regular primary, special state-wide, municipal, special district or school
elections; or on Sundays and any State or Federal legal holiday after twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and before twelve o'clock (12:00) noon, or on any
other day between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. Beer may not be sold between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M.
   F   On-Premises Consumption After Hours: On-premises consumption of
alcoholic beverages may continue for one hour past the time sales cease. Anyone
having a Class B Beer or Class C Beer and Liquor Consumption License, or his
agents or employees, shall close the establishment and remove or cause to be
removed from the premises all patrons, customers, or individuals not employed
on the premises no later than two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
   G   Unlawful For Patrons To Remain On Premises After Closing: It shall be
unlawful for any Class B or Class C licensee, or for his agents or employees,
to permit any patron, customer, or individual not employed on the premises to
remain on such premises after the closing time of two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
   H   Illumination Of Premises: Licensed premises shall be kept brightly
illuminated at all times while occupied or open for business; no booth, or
other type of stall, shall be maintained unless all tables, chairs, and
occupants are kept open to full view from the main floor and the entrance of
such licensed premises.
   I   Advertising: It shall be unlawful to advertise the sale of alcoholic
beverages, except as defined in the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
   J   Number Of Alcoholic Beverage Licenses: The total number of businesses
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages in the City shall not exceed:
      1   An unlimited number of Class A Beer licenses.
      2   Four (4) Class B Beer licenses.
      3   Four (4) Class C Beer and Liquor Consumption licenses. (Ord. 95-6,
12-13-1995; 1996 Code)
3-4-13: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
   A   Premises Subject To Inspection: All licensed premises shall be subject
to inspection by any officer, agent, or peace officer of the City or the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, or the State Board of Health, and every
licensee shall, at the request of the Board of Health furnish to it samples of
alcoholic beverages which he shall have for sale.
   B   Revocation Of License For Violation: Any license granted pursuant to
this Chapter may be revoked on a finding by the City Council that the licensee
has had ten (10) days' or more notice from the Board of Health that the
licensee is violating one or more health ordinances, rules or regulations of
the City or of the Utah Division of Health and has failed to comply with such
health ordinance, rules or regulations.
   C   Closing Of Business: The City Council may direct the Chief of Police to
close down any business licensed under this Chapter where the Board of Health
has determined that continued operation of the business presents an imminent
danger to the health of the community or persons who may eat or drink at the
business. (1978 Code § 9-426; 1996 Code)
3-4-14: DISQUALIFICATION FOR CONVICTION OF CRIME:
No license shall be granted to any retailer to sell alcoholic beverages within
the City if the licensee, a partner, manager, officer, director, managing agent
or shareholder with more than twenty percent (20%) stock has been convicted of:
   A   A felony under any Federal or State law;
   B   Any violation of any Federal or State law or local ordinance concerning
the sale, manufacture, distribution, warehousing, adulteration or
transportation of alcoholic beverages; or
   C   Any crime involving moral turpitude;
   D   Nor shall any license to sell alcoholic beverages be granted to anyone
who has violated any provision of the ordinances of the City relating to
intoxicating liquors; nor to any individual less than twenty one (21) years of
age. (Ord. 95-6, 12-13-1995)
3-4-15: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A   Violations Related To Operation Of Business: The City Council may, after
a hearing, revoke or suspend any alcoholic beverage license on a finding by it
that the licensee or his officers, agents or employees have violated any
provision of this Chapter or any ordinance of the City whether now or hereafter
enacted which in any way related to the operation of the business or the safety
of the public.
   B   Hearing: A hearing before the Governing Body may be requested by any
person:
      1   That is denied or refused a alcoholic beverage license by any
officer, agent or employee of the City.
      2   Whose alcoholic beverage license is revoked, restricted, qualified,
or limited from that for which it was first issued.
   C   Request For Hearing: The request for hearing must be made in writing to
the Recorder/Clerk and made within thirty (30) days following the date notice
denying, refusing, revoking, qualifying, restricting or revoking the alcoholic
beverage license is mailed by the City to the applicant or license holder at
his address as it appears on the application or license.
   D   Notification Of Hearing: Following receipt of a request for hearing, the
Recorder/Clerk shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and
place the hearing is to be held. At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have
the right to hear and examine any witnesses the City may produce to support its
decision and to present his own evidence in support of his contention. The City
Council shall, within ten (10) days following the conclusion of the hearing, in
writing, inform the person who requested the hearing of the decision of the
City Council.
   E   No More Than One Hearing: This Section shall not be construed so as to
afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the City Council nor
shall the hearing provided in this Chapter apply to any criminal complaint or
proceeding. (1978 Code § 9-427; 1996 Code)
3-4-16: PENALTY:
   A   Sales Without License: It shall be a Class B misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code for any person to engage in the business of selling
alcoholic beverages at retail without first having procured a license therefor
from the City.
   B   Sales After Revocation Of License: It shall be a Class B misdemeanor and
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code for any person to sell alcoholic beverages after the
revocation of the license issued pursuant to this Chapter. (Ord. 95-6, 12-13-
1995; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC DANCES AND CABARETS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License Required
3-5-3: License Fees
3-5-4: Investigation By Chief Of Police
3-5-5: Licensing Conditions
3-5-6: Display Of License
3-5-7: Dance Regulations
3-5-8: Cabaret Regulations
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
CABARET: Duly licensed establishments which permit their patrons to dance and
restaurants or premises which entertain their patrons with live performers who
sing or dance or which permit their patrons to dance, shall be deemed to be a
"cabaret" and such places shall be subject to cabaret licensing provisions and
regulations as hereinafter provided.
CLUB: Dances conducted and sponsored by private nonprofit clubs organized
pursuant to chapter 6 of title 16, Utah Code Annotated, for members and their
guests only, shall be subject to the club licensing provisions as hereinafter
provided, but such dances shall not be deemed to be public dances.
NONPUBLIC DANCES: Dances conducted and sponsored by public or private schools
and churches for the students or members thereof, even though an admission fee
is charged, and dances conducted in private homes on a private basis, shall not
be deemed to be public dances and shall be exempt from the licensing provisions
of this Chapter.
PUBLIC DANCE: Any dance to which the public generally may gain admission with
or without the payment of a fee, but shall not include any dance conducted on
or in any public park, street or public grounds by permission of the City
Council.
PUBLIC DANCE HALL: Any room, place or space in which a public dance is held or
in which classes in dancing are held and instruction in dancing is given for
hire. (1978 Code § 9-441; 1996 Code)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A   Operation Of Any Dance: It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any
dance until duly licensed by the Recorder/Clerk, except as otherwise herein
provided.
   B   Denied Or Revoked: If at any time a license under the provisions of this
Chapter is denied or revoked, it shall thereafter be unlawful for any person to
operate, open, maintain, manage or conduct a dance at the same premises until a
new license shall be granted by the City Council. (1978 Code § 9-443; 1996
Code)
3-5-3: LICENSE FEES:
The license fee required for a public dance hall license shall be established
by resolution. (1978 Code § 9-442; 1996 Code)
3-5-4: INVESTIGATION BY CHIEF OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police shall examine and investigate all applicants for licenses
and the premises to be licensed under this Chapter. Following such examination
the recommendations of the Chief of Police shall be made in writing to the City
Council. The Chief of Police shall be permitted to have access to all premises
licensed or applying for licenses under this Chapter and shall make periodic
inspections of the premises and report its findings to the City Council. (1978
Code § 9-446)
3-5-5: LICENSING CONDITIONS:
No license shall be issued pursuant to this Chapter unless that place for which
it is issued complies with and conforms to all laws, ordinances and health and
fire regulations applicable thereto, is properly ventilated, has available
separate and sufficient restroom conveniences for each sex, and is a safe and
proper place for the purposes for which it is to be used. (1978 Code § 9-444;
1996 Code)
3-5-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every person to whom a license is issued under this Chapter shall post the same
in a conspicuous place on the premises covered by such license. (1978 Code § 9-
445)
3-5-7: DANCE REGULATIONS:
   A   Persons Under Twenty One Prohibited At Public Dance; Exception:
      1   Except as provided in subsection A2 hereof, it shall be unlawful to
permit any person who has not reached the age of twenty one (21) years to
attend or remain at any public dance or cabaret unless such person be
accompanied by his parents.
      2   It shall be lawful to permit persons who have not attained the age of
twenty one (21) years to attend a public dance without being accompanied by
their parents only where such public dance is held under all of the following
conditions:
         a   The dance is sponsored or held primarily for groups of persons
between fourteen (14) and twenty (20) years of age.
         b   No cigarettes, beer or liquor is sold, consumed or used upon the
dance hall premises.
         c   The dance closes not later than one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
         d   The dance is under police supervision to be furnished at the
expense of the management of the dance.
         e   The licensee/sponsor provides adult supervision and the dance is
conducted under controls conducive to the proper behavior and conduct of all
persons in attendance.
         f   A license to conduct the dance has first been obtained from the
Recorder/Clerk.
   B   License Extension: When, in the opinion of the City Council the
circumstances justify it, the City Council may permit dances at a definite
location to continue for an extended period of time without requiring a license
for each separate dance, subject to the right to revoke such permit at any time
in the discretion of the City Council.
   C   Misrepresentation Of Age Or Family Status Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any person to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
gaining admission to a public dance or cabaret or falsely to represent himself
or herself to be a parent or legal guardian of any person in order that such
person may attend or remain at any public dance or cabaret.
   D   Proscribed Hours: It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or
maintain a dance within a dance hall licensed pursuant to this Chapter or, for
any person in charge or control of such dance hall, to allow or permit any such
dance or dancing between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. (1978 Code § 9-447; 1996 Code)
3-5-8: CABARET REGULATIONS:
   A   Prohibition To Person Under Twenty One If Alcoholic Beverages Are Sold:
If any licensed cabaret premises are also licensed for the sale of alcoholic
beverages, no person under the age of twenty one (21) years may enter or be
permitted to remain on the premises.
   B   Seating Area And Dance Floor Separation: The dance area in a licensed
cabaret must be separated from the seating area by a minimum aisle or areaway
of three feet (3').
   C   Restroom Requirements: Access to restrooms must be by an aisle or
areaway of at least three feet (3') in width and in no event shall a cabaret
license be issued if it is necessary to cross directly over the dance area to
have access to restrooms.
   D   Bar And Dance Floor Separation: If the dance area is adjacent to or in
front of a bar where beer or food is served or consumed there must be a minimum
aisle or areaway of five feet (5') between the bar and the dance area.
   E   Itinerant And Impromptu Entertainment Prohibited: Impromptu audience
performers or itinerant walk-in guitar players or entertainers are prohibited.
   F   Live Entertainment In Licensed Cabarets Only: It shall be unlawful to
furnish live entertainment for patrons of restaurants or premises licensed
pursuant to this Chapter, unless the premises are licensed as a cabaret
pursuant to this Chapter.
   G   Hot Food Must Be Available: A variety of hot foods must be available to
guests and clientele of a cabaret during all hours it is open for business.
(1978 Code § 9-448; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 6
SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Business License Required
3-6-3: Soliciting Orders On Private Property
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
CANVASSER OR SOLICITOR: Any individual whether or not a resident of the City,
traveling either by foot, motor vehicle, or other type of conveyance, from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise,
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services
to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale, or whether
he is collecting advance payments on such sales; provided, that such definition
shall include any person who, for himself, or for another person, firm or
corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent,
hotel or motel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within
the City for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for
future delivery.
PEDDLER: Includes any person, whether or not a resident of the City, traveling
by foot, motor vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying, or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling
from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a motor
vehicle, or other vehicle or conveyance, and further; provided, that one who
solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as
part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed a peddler subject to the provisions of this Chapter.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT OR ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person, firm or
corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether or not a
resident of the City, who engages in a temporary business of selling and
delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the City, and who, in
furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure, motor vehicle, tent, public room in any hotel, motel, lodging house,
apartment, shop or any street, alley, or other place within the City, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction. The person, firm or corporation so engaged shall not be
relieved from complying with the provisions of this part merely by reason of
associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer,
or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or
in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer. (1978 Code §
9-452; 1996 Code)
3-6-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for:
   A   Transient Merchant, Itinerant Merchant Or Itinerant Vendor: A transient
merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor to engage in such business
without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of
this Chapter.
   B   Peddler: Any person to engage in the business of peddler without first
obtaining a license therefor as provided in this chapter. (1978 Code § 9-451;
amd. 1996 Code)
3-6-3: SOLICITING ORDERS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A   Purpose: To protect against criminal activity, including fraud,
disorderly conduct, burglary and assault; to minimize the unwelcome disturbance
and disruption of privacy; and to otherwise preserve the public health, safety
and welfare of all citizens by licensing, regulating and controlling solicitors
and peddlers.
   B   Solicitation Prohibited Without License: It shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in peddling or solicitation activities within the city of
Monticello without first obtaining a license issued by the city recorder,
unless exempted under subsections D and E of this section. All relevant
provisions of this title, "Business And License Regulations", shall apply.
Unless authorized or permitted pursuant to the terms and provisions of this
chapter, the practice of being in and upon private residential property within
the city by solicitors, peddlers, itinerant merchants and transient vendors of
merchandise and/or services for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale
of goods, wares, merchandise and/or services, and/or for the purpose of
disposing and/or peddling, is prohibited and is punishable as set forth in
subsection P of this section.
   C   Exception For Invited Solicitor: The prohibition under subsection B of
this section shall not apply if the owner or occupant of the private
residential property has previously and specifically invited the solicitor to
the private residential property. Such invitation shall not relieve the
solicitor from complying with all other terms and provisions of this title.
   D   Exemptions: The terms and provisions of this chapter do not apply to
persons engaged in noncommercial distribution of religious tracts and
information, the door to door canvassing for the dissemination of ideas, nor
engagement in political campaigning as a candidate or on behalf of a candidate
in a recognized federal, state, or local election.
   E   Charitable Exception: The prohibitions under this section shall not
apply if the solicitor is working on behalf of a charitable organization
recognized as such under regulations issued by the internal revenue service
pursuant to its authority created by the terms of 26 USC section 501.
The charitable exception shall apply generally to persons making solicitations
for a church, religious organization, or charitable organization recognized by
the internal revenue service as a nonprofit corporation, and shall include any
unincorporated association or corporation under the supervision and control of
any church, charitable organization, or religious organization if the church or
organization is tax exempt under internal revenue service regulations.
The charitable exception shall apply to students soliciting contributions to
finance extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific, or cultural
programs, provided that the solicitation has been approved by the school
principal or superintendent of schools, provided, however, that no such
solicitation is permitted if the occupant of the residence has complied with
the "no soliciting" provision of subsection J of this section.
   F   Registration Of Solicitors: All persons desiring to engage in soliciting
within the city and not exempted as provided in this section shall, prior to
doing so, apply to the city recorder for a business license. The business
license executed by the city recorder or designee shall be carried by the
registrant at all times while soliciting and the registrant shall show proof of
such registration, while engaged in solicitation, upon request of the owner,
occupant of the residence, or a city police officer.
   G   Application For License: The city recorder shall provide a standard
application form to an applicant desiring to engage in soliciting within the
city. The applicant shall pay the standard fee for temporary or annual
licensing. Incomplete applications or nonpayment of the standard fee will be
cause for denial of a business license.
   H   Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited:
      1   No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or
fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
      2   A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the resident, whether
orally or by preprinted card, during face to face solicitation, the first and
last name of the solicitor, the name, address, and telephone number of the
entity with whom the solicitor is associated, and the true purpose of the
solicitor's contact with the resident.
      3   No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or any name other
than the solicitor's true and correct name as stated on the identification
provided.
   I   Revocation Of License: The license of a solicitor may be revoked at any
time for failure to comply with the terms or provisions of this title or for
conducting or permitting unlawful activities within the city.
   J   "No Soliciting" Notice:
      1   Any occupant of a residence desiring to secure the protection of this
chapter shall give notice of a desire to refuse solicitors by displaying a
placard or sign no smaller than sixteen (16) square inches stating "No
Soliciting", "No Solicitors", "No Salesmen", or words of similar import which
shall be posted on or near the main entrance door, or on or near the property
line adjacent to the walkways leading to the residence.
      2   The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute
notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to
receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   K   Duties Of Solicitor:
      1   It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each
residence for the presence of a "no soliciting" notice. Every solicitor shall,
prior to entering premises on which a residence is located, examine the walkway
leading to the residence or dwelling unit, and the door and areas near the
door, for any sign or placard notifying a solicitor not to solicit on the
premises. If such sign or placard is posted, solicitor shall desist from any
efforts to solicit at the residence and shall immediately depart from such
property. Possession of a city business license does not, in any way, relieve
the solicitor of this duty.
      2   It is a violation of this title for any person not otherwise exempted
to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any other manner attempt to
attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears the "No
Soliciting" or similar sign or placard. It is a violation of this chapter for
any solicitor, through ruse, deception or concealment, or a purpose to solicit,
to take action calculated to secure an audience with the occupant of the
residence where a "No Soliciting" or similar sign or placard has been placed.
      3   Any solicitor who is, at any time, asked by the occupant of a
residence to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart. It is a violation
of this chapter for any solicitor to remain on the premises of a residence
after an occupant thereof has asked the solicitor to leave.
      4   It is a violation of this section for any solicitor to conduct
peddling or solicitation activities in a manner as to create a public nuisance,
constitute a breach of the peace, or endanger the health, safety or general
welfare of the public.
   L   Time Of Day Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any solicitor,
whether licensed or not, to solicit any person at a residence before nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., or on holidays defined
herein as the holidays observed nationally and in Utah, including New Year's
Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Presidents' Day, Memorial Day, July 4, July
24, Labor Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day, unless the
solicitor has prior permission from the resident to do so.
   M   Street Use Restrictions: No solicitor shall have an exclusive right to
any location on the public streets or roads, nor shall any be permitted in a
stationary location, nor shall the solicitor be permitted to operate in any
congested area where his operations might impede, inconvenience, or endanger
the public. For the purpose of this chapter, the judgment of a police officer,
exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
congested or the public impeded, inconvenienced, or endangered. A solicitor
shall apply for the appropriate vendor license from the city if the intent of
the solicitor is to occupy a stationary space to vend goods.
   N   Noise Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any solicitor licensed under
the provisions of this chapter to make any loud noise to attract customers.
   O   Sales Near Schools And Playgrounds: It shall be unlawful for any
solicitor to stand, remain, or drive any vehicle for the purpose of selling
wares and merchandise, or to sell or offer to sell any wares or merchandise
within two (2) blocks of any public school property in the city between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on all days
when school is in session, or within one block of any public park or
playground.
   P   Penalties: Any person who engages in soliciting without complying with
the requirements of this section, or who violates any other terms or provisions
of this chapter, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to
penalties prescribed in section
1-4-6 of this code. (Ord. 2005-2, 6-22-2005, eff. 7-1-2005)
CHAPTER 7
ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-7-1: Tax Levied
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Exemptions
3-7-4: Existing Franchises; Fees
3-7-5: Tax Collection Contract With State Tax Commission
3-7-6: Additional Requirements
3-7-7: Incorporation Of Utah Code
3-7-8: Effective Date
3-7-1: TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied a tax on every sale or use of taxable energy made within
the City, equaling six percent (6%) of the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer. This tax shall be known as the Municipal Energy Sales
and Use Tax.
   A   The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable energy
to the consumer.
   B   The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on taxable energy
imposed by the City, authorized by title 59, chapter 12, part 2, Utah Code
Annotated, the Local Sales and Use Tax. (Ord. 1997-1, 6-25-1997, eff. 6-30-
1997)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE: A. A fee provided for in a franchise agreement and
that is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   B   A fee similar to subsection A of this definition or any combination of
subsections A and B of this definition.
DELIVERED VALUE: The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for sale
or use in the Municipality, including:
   A   The value of the energy itself; and
   B   Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service charges,
or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable form to
each class of customer in the Municipality.
Delivered value does not include the amount of tax paid under part 1 or part 2
of chapter 12, title 59, Utah Code Annotated.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimus amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded
by rule promulgated by the State Tax Commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract, or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX: A. A franchise tax;
   B   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   C   Any combination of subsections A and B of this definition.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, this State,
any county, city, municipality, district, or other local governmental entity of
the State, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange, or banter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration, including:
   A   Installment and credit sales;
   B   Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C   Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in this City for any
purpose except sale in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
USE: The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
Use does not include the sale, display, demonstration, or trial of the taxable
energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (Ord. 1997-1, 6-
25-1997, eff. 6-30-1997)
3-7-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A   No exemptions are granted from the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax
except as expressly provided in section 10-1-305(2)(b), Utah Code Annotated;
notwithstanding an exemption granted by section 59-1-104, Utah Code Annotated.
   B   The following are exempt from the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax,
pursuant to section 10-1-305(2)(b), Utah Code Annotated:
      1   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel, and special fuels subject
to taxation under title 59, chapter 13, Utah Code Annotated;
      2   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
Federal law, the United States Constitution, or the Utah Constitution;
      3   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
      4   Sales or use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of the
taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a fuel
subject to taxation under title 59, chapter 13, Utah Code Annotated;
      5   Taxable energy brought into the State by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the State, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the State by a nonresident living or
working in the State at the time of the purchase;
      6   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      7   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of
Monticello.
   C   The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of taxable energy is exempt
from the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax levied by this Chapter, provided:
      1   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
State authorized by title 59, chapter 12, part 3, Utah Code Annotated; and
      2   The City of Monticello is paid the difference between the tax paid to
the other municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this
Chapter, if the tax due under this Chapter exceeds the tax paid to the other
municipality. (Ord. 1997-1, 6-25-1997, eff. 6-30-1997)
3-7-4: EXISTING FRANCHISES; FEES:
   A   This Chapter shall not alter any existing franchise agreements between
the City and energy suppliers.
   B   There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the amount of
a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the City
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 1997;
      2   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (Ord. 1997-1, 6-25-
1997, eff. 6-30-1997)
3-7-5: TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
   A   On or before the effective date of this Chapter, the City shall contract
with the State Tax Commission to perform all functions incident to the
administration and collection of the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax, in
accordance with this Chapter. The City Manager is hereby authorized to enter
agreements with the State Tax Commission that may be necessary to the continued
administration and operation of the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax
Ordinance enacted by this Chapter.
   B   An energy supplier shall pay the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax
revenues collected from consumers directly to the City monthly if:
      1   The City is the energy supplier; or
      2   The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales and use
tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more, and the energy supplier collects the Municipal Energy
Sales and Use Tax.
   C   An energy supplier paying the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax
directly to the City may deduct any contractual franchise fees collected by the
energy supplier qualifying as a credit and remit the net tax less any amount
the energy supplier retains as authorized by section 10-1-307(4), Utah Code
Annotated. (Ord. 1997-1, 6-25-1997, eff. 6-30-1997)
3-7-6: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
No additional license to collect or report the Municipal Energy Sales and Use
Tax levied by this Chapter is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under section 59-12-106, Utah Code Annotated.
(Ord. 1997-1, 6-25-1997, eff. 6-30-1997)
3-7-7: INCORPORATION OF UTAH CODE:
   A   Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of title 10, chapter 1, part 3, Municipal Energy Sales and
Use Tax Act, as well as this Chapter, all of the provisions of part 1, chapter
12, title 59, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, and in force and effect on
the effective date of this Chapter, insofar as they relate to sales and use
taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, and excepting for
the amount of the sales and use taxes levied therein, are hereby adopted and
made a part of this Chapter as if fully set forth herein.
   B   Wherever, and to the extent that in part 1, chapter 12, title 59, Utah
Code Annotated 1953, as amended, the State of Utah is named or referred to as
the "taxing agency", the name of the City of Monticello shall be substituted,
insofar as is necessary for the purposes of this part, as well as part 3,
chapter 1, title 10, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended. Nothing in this
subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name City of
Monticello for the word "State" when that word is used as part of the title of
the State Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of
the City of Monticello be substituted for that of the State in any section when
the result of such a substitution would require action to be taken by or
against the City or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax
Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Chapter.
   C   Any amendments made to part 1, chapter 12, title 59, Utah Code Annotated
1953, as amended, which would be applicable to the City for the purposes of
carrying out this Chapter are hereby incorporated herein by reference and shall
be effective upon the date that they are effective as a Utah statute. (Ord.
1997-1, 6-25-1997, eff. 6-30-1997)
3-7-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax shall be levied beginning one minute
after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M., on July 1, 1997. (Ord. 1997-1, 6-25-1997,
eff. 6-30-1997)
CHAPTER 8
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Tax Assessment
3-8-3: Curtailment
3-8-4: Application Of Revenues
3-8-5: Sales Tax License
3-8-6: Remittances And Collection
3-8-7: Severability
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or entity of
any kind.
PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS: A place providing temporary sleeping accommodations to
the public, including:
   A   Motels;
   B   Hotels;
   C   Motor courts or recreational vehicle parks;
   D   Inns;
   E   Bed and breakfast establishments;
   F   Condominiums;
   G   Campgrounds operated by a nongovernmental entity;
   H   Resort homes; and
   I   Transient apartment rentals.
RENTS: Include:
   A   All room charges, exclusive of charges for food and beverages or related
items subject to sales taxation;
   B   Fees for occupancy of a dwelling or site;
   C   Time-share fees and dues.
TRANSIENT: A person who occupies a public accommodation for thirty (30)
consecutive days or less. (Ord. 1998-3, 7-8-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
3-8-2: TAX ASSESSMENT:
   A   There is hereby levied against the purchaser a transient room tax on the
rents charged for transient occupancy of public accommodations within the City,
an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the gross rents charged.
   B   The transient room tax levied by this Chapter is in addition to all
other taxes or fees imposed by the State, San Juan County, and/or the City.
(Ord. 1998-3, 7-8-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
3-8-3: CURTAILMENT:
The tax imposed by this Chapter shall continue until such time as it is
repealed by the City. (Ord. 1998-3, 7-8-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
3-8-4: APPLICATION OF REVENUES:
Revenues generated by the tax imposed under this Chapter shall be designated
for tourist-related improvements to the City's infrastructure, including the
servicing of bond indebtedness, and to other specific improvements which may be
determined by the City to be tourist-related. (Ord. 1998-3, 7-8-1998, eff. 10-
1-1998)
3-8-5: SALES TAX LICENSE:
Every person or entity collecting rents from public accommodations subject to
this Chapter shall have a sales tax license, as is required by subsection
3-3-4F of this Title, and Utah Code Unannotated section 59-12-106. Persons or
entities already having a valid sales tax license issued by the Utah State Tax
Commission pursuant to those sections need not obtain any additional sales tax
license. (Ord. 1998-3, 7-8-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
3-8-6: REMITTANCES AND COLLECTION:
   A   The City shall contract with the Utah State Tax Commission for
assessment, administration, and enforcement services for all taxes assessed
under this Chapter. Sums collected shall be remitted to the City in accordance
with that agreement.
   B   All persons subject to this Chapter shall make remittances in accordance
with rules and regulations promulgated by the Commission and as is otherwise
mandated by State law.
   C   The tax enacted under this Chapter shall be paid quarterly, on January
1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 of each calendar year, unless the licensee is
required to submit monthly remittances pursuant to State law or regulations
promulgated by the Commission.
      1   Quarterly payments under this Chapter are timely, provided all sums
owing are paid in full no later than thirty (30) days from the quarterly
payment date.
   D   Licensees and all vendors or other persons subject to this Chapter,
including persons acquiring a business or its assets, are liable for all
penalties, interest, costs of collection, statutory liens, and related remedies
available to the Commission for collection of unpaid taxes under the Utah Sales
and Use Tax Act, title 59, chapter 12, which remedies are hereby incorporated
by reference. (Ord. 1998-3, 7-8-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
3-8-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this Chapter shall be held to be void, unconstitutional, or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, it shall be severed from
the remainder of this Chapter, which shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1998-3, 7-8-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
CHAPTER 9
HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGES
SECTION:
3-9-1: License Required
3-9-2: Zoning Regulations; Compliance Required
3-9-3: Traffic Laws; Compliance Required
3-9-4: Carriage Requirements
3-9-5: Sanitation
3-9-6: Safety
3-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A   Horse-Drawn Carriage Operation: It shall be unlawful to transport
passengers by horse and carriage without first obtaining a City business
license.
   B   Liability Insurance Required: No license shall be issued until a
certificate of insurance is placed on file with the City Recorder/Clerk as
evidence that there is in full force and effect a comprehensive general
liability policy covering both the carriage and the horse used, or to be used,
for public transportation. The policy of insurance covering the operation of
the applicant's business shall be no less than the minimum amount required by
the State.
   C   Licenses Denied Or Revoked: If, at any time, a City license under the
provisions of this Chapter is denied or revoked, it shall thereafter be
unlawful for any person to conduct, operate, or maintain a horse-drawn carriage
business until a new license shall be granted by the City Council.
   D   Fees: The license fee required for horse-drawn carriage operations shall
be established by resolution. (Ord. 1999-3, 5-26-1999, eff. 6-22-1999)
3-9-2: ZONING REGULATIONS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A   Keeping Of Animal: A horse may not be stabled, housed or fed at any
location within City limits, except in an Agricultural Zone (A-1).
   B   Approved Route:
      1   A route shall be established by the applicant and presented for
approval by City officials at time of application for licensure.
      2   The horse and carriage shall travel only upon the State highway and
on those streets which have been approved by the City.
      3   Turns at the intersection of Main and Central Streets shall be
prohibited. (Ord. 1999-3, 5-26-1999, eff. 6-22-1999)
3-9-3: TRAFFIC LAWS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A   Subject To Traffic Laws: A driver operating a horse-drawn carriage shall
obey all traffic laws of the State.
   B   Valid License: The operator/driver of a carriage shall be in possession
of a valid Utah driver's license. (Ord. 1999-3, 5-26-1999, eff. 6-22-1999)
3-9-4: CARRIAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   A   Equipment: The carriage shall be equipped with:
      1   Two (2) rear-view mirrors;
      2   Two (2) electrified white lights visible for one thousand feet
(1,000') to the front of the carriage;
      3   Two (2) electrified red lights visible for one thousand feet (1,000')
to the rear of the carriage;
      4   Electrified directional signals;
      5   Hydraulic or factory-equipped mechanical brakes as appropriate.
   B   Inspection: The carriage shall be inspected at the time of licensure and
renewal thereof, prior to its use and operation, by an officer of the
Monticello Police Department. (Ord. 1999-3, 5-26-1999, eff. 6-22-1999)
3-9-5: SANITATION:
   A   Manure Collection: It shall be the responsibility of the operator/driver
of the carriage to collect and properly dispose of horse manure which has
fallen to the pavement. Collection of horse manure shall be accomplished within
one hour of occurrence.
   B   Maintenance Of Carriage: The carriage shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition at all times. (Ord. 1999-3, 5-26-1999, eff. 6-22-1999)
3-9-6: SAFETY:
   A   Speed: The operator/driver of the carriage shall not permit the speed of
the horse to exceed a slow trot.
   B   Lighting:
      1   The front and taillights of the carriage shall be turned on at or
before sunset, and in conditions of poor visibility.
      2   All carriage lights shall be kept operational.
   C   Parking: The horse and carriage shall not be left unattended in a public
place.
   D   Passengers:
      1   Passengers shall not be permitted to ride on the horse or any part of
the carriage, except seated inside, while in motion.
      2   The carriage shall not carry more passengers than it was designed to
carry.
      3   Passengers must remain seated while the carriage is in motion. (Ord.
1999-3, 5-26-1999, eff. 6-22-1999)
CHAPTER 10
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Levy Of Tax
3-10-3: Rate
3-10-4: Rate Limitation And Exemption Therefrom
3-10-5: Taxes Erroneously Recovered From Customers
3-10-6: Effective Date Of Tax Levy
3-10-7: Interlocal Agreement For Collection Of Tax
3-10-8: Repeal Of Inconsistent Taxes And Fees
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
COMMISSION: The state tax commission.
CUSTOMER:
   A.   Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, the person who is
obligated under a contract with a telecommunications provider to pay for
telecommunications service received under the contract.
   B   For purposes of this chapter, "customer" means:
      1.   The person who is obligated under a contract with a
telecommunications provider to pay for telecommunications service received
under the contract; or
      2.   If the end user is not the person described in subsection B1 of this
definition, the end user of telecommunications service.
   C   "Customer" does not include a reseller:
      1.   Of telecommunications service; or
      2.   For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's
licensed service area.
END USER:
   A.   The person who uses a telecommunications service.
   B   For purposes of telecommunications service provided to a person who is
not an individual, "end user" means the individual who uses the
telecommunications service on behalf of the person who is provided the
telecommunications service.
GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE MUNICIPALITY: Those gross receipts from a
transaction for telecommunications services that is located within the
municipality for the purposes of sales and use taxes under Utah code title 59,
chapter 12, sales and use tax act, and determined in accordance with Utah code
section 59-12-207.
GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES: The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered
except for amounts collected or paid as:
   A   A tax, fee, or charge:
      1.   Imposed by a governmental entity;
      2.   Separately identified as a tax, fee, or charge in the transaction
with the customer for the telecommunications service; and
      3.   Imposed only on a telecommunications provider;
   B   Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a
customer under title 59, chapter 12, sales and use tax act; or
   C   Interest, a fee, or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications
provider on a customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when
payment is due.
MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
MUNICIPALITY: The city of Monticello.
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE:
   A.   For telecommunications service other than mobile telecommunications
service, the street address representative of where the customer's use of the
telecommunications service primarily occurs, which shall be:
      1.   The residential street address of the customer; or
      2.   The primary business street address of the customer; or
   B   For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
SERVICE ADDRESS: Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid, means:
   A   If the location described in this subsection A is known, the location of
the telecommunications equipment:
      1.   To which a call is charged; and
      2.   From which the call originates or terminates;
   B   If the location described in subsection A of this definition is not
known but the location described in this subsection B is known, the location of
the origination point of the signal of the telecommunications service first
identified by:
      1.   The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
      2.   If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the
telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider; or
   C   If the locations described in subsection A or B of this definition are
not known, the location of a customer's place of primary use.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER:
   A.   Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, a person that:
      1. Owns, controls, operates, or manages a telecommunications service; or
      2. Engages in an activity described in subsection A1 of this definition
for the shared use with or resale to any person of the telecommunications
service.
   B   A person described in subsection A of this definition is a
telecommunications provider whether or not the public service commission of
Utah regulates:
      1. That person; or
      2. The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls,
operates, or manages.
   C   "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator as defined
in Utah code section 54-8b-2.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE:
   A.   Telephone service, as defined in Utah code section 59-12-102, other
than mobile telecommunications service, that originates and terminates within
the boundaries of this state; and
   B   Mobile telecommunications service, as defined in Utah code section 59-
12-102:
      1. That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state; and
      2. Only to the extent permitted by the mobile telecommunications sourcing
act, 4 USC section 116 et seq. (Ord. 2004-1, 7-14-2004)
3-10-2: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to this municipality. (Ord.
2004-1, 7-14-2004)
3-10-3: RATE:
The rate of the tax levy shall be four percent (4%) of the telecommunication
provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed
to the municipality subject to the following:
If the location of a transaction is determined to be other than this
municipality, then the rate imposed on the gross receipts for
telecommunications services shall be the lower of: a) the rate imposed by the
taxing jurisdiction in which the transaction is located, or b) the rate for
nonmobile telecommunication services shall be the rate imposed by the
municipality in which the customer's service address is located, or c) for
mobile telecommunications service, the rate imposed by the municipality of the
customer's primary place of use. (Ord. 2004-1, 7-14-2004)
3-10-4: RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION THEREFROM:
The rate of this levy shall not exceed four percent (4%) of the
telecommunication provider's gross receipts from telecommunication service
attributed to the municipality unless a higher rate is approved by a majority
vote of the voters in this municipality who vote in:
   A   A municipal general election;
   B   A regular general election; or
   C   A local special election. (Ord. 2004-1, 7-14-2004)
3-10-5: TAXES ERRONEOUSLY RECOVERED FROM CUSTOMERS:
A customer may not bring a cause of action against a telecommunications
provider on the basis that the telecommunications provider erroneously
recovered from the customer municipal telecommunications license taxes
authorized by Utah code section 10-1-401 et seq., unless the customer meets the
same requirements that a purchaser is required to meet to bring a cause of
action against a seller for a refund or credit as provided in subsection 59-12-
110.1(3). (Ord. 2004-1, 7-14-2004)
3-10-6: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX LEVY:
Pursuant to Utah code section 10-1-403, the commission was duly notified that
this municipality will enact an ordinance establishing a tax on the gross
receipts of telecommunications service providers, and that said tax shall be
levied beginning October 1, 2004. (Ord. 2004-1, 7-14-2004)
3-10-7: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR COLLECTION OF TAX:
On or before the effective date hereof, the municipality shall enter into the
uniform interlocal agreement with the commission, as described in Utah code
section 10-1-405, for the collection, enforcement, and administration of this
municipal telecommunications license tax. (Ord. 2004-1, 7-14-2004)
3-10-8: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT TAXES AND FEES:
Any tax or fee previously enacted by this municipality under authority of Utah
code section 10-1-203 or Utah code title 11, chapter 26, local taxation of
utilities limitation, is hereby repealed.
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to repeal any municipal ordinance
or fee which provides that the municipality may recover from a
telecommunications provider the management costs of the municipality caused by
the activities of the telecommunications provider in the rights of way of the
municipality, if the fee is imposed in accordance with Utah code section 72-7-
102 and is not related to the municipality's loss of use of a highway as a
result of the activities of the telecommunications provider in a right of way,
or increased deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the
telecommunications provider in a right of way, nor does this chapter limit the
municipality's right to charge fees or taxes on persons that are not subject to
the municipal telecommunications license tax under this chapter and locate
telecommunications facilities, as defined in Utah code section 72-7-108, in
this municipality. (Ord. 2004-1, 7-14-2004)
CHAPTER 11
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-11-1: General Provisions; Purposes
3-11-1-1: Title
3-11-1-2: Purpose
3-11-1-3: General Applicability
3-11-1-4: Obscenity
3-11-1-5: Definitions
3-11-2: Location Regulations
3-11-2-1: Zoning
3-11-2-2: Additional Location Requirements
3-11-2-3: Method Of Measurement
3-11-2-4: Single Location And Name
3-11-2-5: Moving Of Business Location
3-11-3: Licensing Provisions
3-11-3-1: Business Categories
3-11-3-2: Hours Of Operation
3-11-3-3: Business License Required
3-11-3-4: Business License; Application; Disclosure
3-11-3-5: License And Work Permit Fees
3-11-3-6: Business License Term
3-11-3-7: License; Display
3-11-3-8: Issuance
3-11-3-9: Transfer Of Ownership Of Business License Prohibited
3-11-3-10: Change In Information
3-11-4: Additional Building Regulations
3-11-4-1: Regulations Pertaining To Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films Or
Videos
3-11-4-2: Stage Requirements
3-11-5: Employee And Patron Regulations
3-11-5-1: Employee Work Permit Required
3-11-5-2: Sexually Oriented Business Employee Work Permit; Obtain Before
Working
3-11-5-3: Sexually Oriented Business Employee Work Permit Application;
Disclosure
3-11-5-4: State Licensing Exemption
3-11-5-5: Sexually Oriented Business Employee Work Permit; Issuance And Term
3-11-5-6: Change In Employee Information
3-11-5-7: License Fees
3-11-5-8: License Display
3-11-5-9: Sexually Oriented Business Employee Conduct
3-11-5-10: Activities Of Patrons
3-11-6: General Applicability; Actions For Violations; Defenses
3-11-6-1: Applicability Of Regulations To Existing Businesses
3-11-6-2: Injunctions
3-11-6-3: Suspension
3-11-6-4: Revocation
3-11-6-5: Hearing, Revocation, License Denial, Suspension; Appeal
3-11-6-6: Violation; Penalty
3-11-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS; PURPOSES:
3-11-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-
2007)
3-11-1-2: PURPOSE:
It is the objective of this chapter that the city establishes reasonable and
uniform regulations governing the operation of sexually oriented businesses and
their employees in the city. This chapter shall be construed by the city to
protect the governmental interests recognized by this chapter in a manner
consistent with constitutional protection provided by the United States and
Utah constitutions. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-1-3: GENERAL APPLICABILITY:
This chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on certain
business activities which are characterized as sexually oriented businesses,
and certain employees of those businesses characterized as sexually oriented
business employees. Except where the context or specific provisions require,
this chapter does not supersede or nullify any other related ordinances. (Ord.
2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-1-4: OBSCENITY:
Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or displaying of any material
which is contrary to the provisions of this code, or other applicable federal
or state statutes prohibiting obscenity. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-
2007)
3-11-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image
producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displaced are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial
establishment which has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in
trade, or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues, or
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space
for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of any one or more of
the following:
   A   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, DVDs, compact discs, slides, or other
visual representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas";
   B   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant bottle club, or similar
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which
regularly features:
   A   Persons who appear seminude,
   B   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities", or
   C   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, DVDs, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
ADULT MOTEL: A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment which:
   A   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which
regularly provide patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, DVDs, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
and which advertises the availability of this sexually oriented type of
material by means of a sign visible from the public right of way, or by means
of any off premises advertising, including, but not limited to, newspapers,
magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television; and
   B   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than ten (10)
hours; or
   C   Allows a tenant or occupant to subrent the sleeping room for a time
period of less than ten (10) hours.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, DVDs, slides or similar photographic reproductions
which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" are regularly
shown for any form of consideration.
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear live in a state of seminudity or live performances which are
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition of "specified anatomical
areas" or "specified sexual activities".
BUSINESS LICENSE OFFICIAL: The city's business license officer or his/her
designee.
CONTROLLING INTEREST: The power, directly or indirectly, to direct the
operation, management or policies of a business or entity, or to vote twenty
percent (20%) or more of any class of voting securities of a business. The
ownership, control, or power to vote twenty percent (20%) or more of any class
of voting securities of a business shall be presumed, subject to rebuttal, to
be the power to direct the management, operation or policies of the business.
DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS ON: The dominant or principal
theme of the object described by such a phrase. For instance, when the phrase
refers to films "which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas". The films so described are those whose dominant or principal
character and theme are the exhibition or description of "specified anatomical
areas" or "specified sexual activities".
EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYMENT: Describes and pertains to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a full
time, part time, or contract basis, whether or not the person is designated an
employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise. Employee does not
include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the
premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises or similar type of
function.
ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   D   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
HEARING OFFICER: The mayor of Monticello or a designee of the mayor.
LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license. In case
of an "employee" it shall mean the person in whose name the employee license
has been issued.
NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, anus, or anal cleft with less than a fully opaque covering,
or the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of
any part of the nipple.
OPAQUE: Impervious, having capacity to block out or obstruct the visual image
of an object.
OPERATE OR CAUSE TO OPERATE: To cause to function or to put or keep in a state
of doing business. "Operator" means any person on the premises of a sexually
oriented business who is authorized to exercise overall operational control of
the business or who causes to function or who puts or keeps in operation the
business. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a
sexually oriented business whether or not that person is an owner, part owner,
or licensee of the business.
PARK: Public land which has been designated for park or recreational
activities, including, but not limited to, a park, playground, nature trails,
swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball or tennis courts,
pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or similar public land
within the city which is under the control, operation, or management of the
city of Monticello, including, but not limited to, the following existing parks
and facilities: Circle park, Veterans' Memorial park, city ball fields, city
swimming pool, Hideout Golf Club, Loyd's Lake recreation area, Mill Site park,
and related facilities.
PECUNIARY COMPENSATION: Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, profit,
reward, or any other form of consideration.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
PLACE OPEN TO PUBLIC VIEW: An area capable of observance by persons from the
general community, where an expectation for privacy is not reasonably
justified, and includes a dedicated roadway, sidewalk, a parking lot, any
public way, a theater, a restaurant, a movie theater, any room in a hotel or
motel other than a guestroom, or any other place where an expectation for
privacy is not reasonably justified.
PROTECTED USES: Churches, public libraries, public parks or parkways, public
recreation centers, public and private schools, and any residence or
residential district.
REGULARLY FEATURED OR REGULARLY SHOWN: A consistent or substantial course of
conduct such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business
of the sexually oriented business.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which any opaque clothing covers no more than the
genitals, anus, anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, vulva, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult motion
picture theater, adult novelty store, adult theater, adult video store, adult
cabaret, and adult motel.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. Human male genitals in a state of sexual
arousal; or
   B   Less than completely and opaquely covered buttocks, anus, anal cleft or
cleavage, male or female genitals, or a female breast.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following offenses as they are defined
by applicable Utah state statute: prostitution or promotion of prostitution;
dissemination of obscenity or illegal pornographic materials; sale,
distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual abuse; sexual
abuse of a child; sexual exploitation of children; sexual performance by a
child; possession or distribution of child pornography; sexual battery; rape;
indecent exposure; indecency with a child; the crimes of criminal pandering,
tax violations, embezzlement, or racketeering, if such crimes are directly
related to the operation of a sexually oriented business; sexual assault;
molestation of a child; or distribution of a controlled substance; criminal
attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses or
offenses involving the same elements from any jurisdiction if the offenses were
committed in the state of Utah, regardless of the exact title of the offense,
for which:
   A   Less than four (4) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
   B   Less than seven (7) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
   C   Less than seven (7) years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any twenty four (24) month period.
The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the
disqualification of the applicant.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY: Acts of, or simulating:
   A   Masturbation,
   B   Sexual intercourse,
   C   Sexual copulation with a person or a beast,
   D   Fellatio,
   E   Cunnilingus,
   F   Bestiality,
   G   Pederasty,
   H   Buggery,
   I   Sodomy,
   J   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through I of this definition.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Any of the
following:
   A   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   B   The transfer of securities which constitutes a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
VIEWING ROOM: The room, booth, or area where a patron of a sexually oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, videocassette,
DVD, or other video production. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-2: LOCATION REGULATIONS:
3-11-2-1: ZONING:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business at any
location within the city not zoned for such business. Businesses regulated by
this chapter shall not be located closer than six hundred feet (600') to each
other and not closer than six hundred feet (600') to protected uses. (Ord.
2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-2-2: ADDITIONAL LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any business licensed as a sexually oriented business to be
located within six hundred feet (600') of a business licensed for the
consumption of alcohol or liquor. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-2-3: METHOD OF MEASUREMENT:
The six hundred foot (600') limitation is measured from the nearest property
line of the business regulated by this chapter to the nearest property line of
the other sexually oriented business or business licensed for the sale or
consumption of alcohol, or area of protected use. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff.
7-9-2007)
3-11-2-4: SINGLE LOCATION AND NAME:
   A   It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued pursuant to
this chapter at any location other than the licensed premises.
   B   It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business in the
city under any name other than the business name specified in the application.
(Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-2-5: MOVING OF BUSINESS LOCATION:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business, as regulated herein, to
relocate or otherwise move its location or area of operation. A sexually
oriented business wishing to relocate must submit the appropriate application
for a license as required under this chapter. Such application shall be
reviewed under the terms and conditions of this chapter and applicable city
ordinances. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-3: LICENSING PROVISIONS:
3-11-3-1: BUSINESS CATEGORIES:
The categories of sexually oriented business are:
   A   Adult arcade,
   B   Adult bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store,
   C   Adult cabaret,
   D   Adult motel,
   E   Adult motion picture theater,
   F   Adult theater. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-3-2: HOURS OF OPERATION:
All premises licensed to operate a sexually oriented business shall only
operate between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. of the following day. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-3-3: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful:
   A   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a valid
sexually oriented business license issued by the city pursuant to this chapter.
   B   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ a
person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the city pursuant to this chapter.
   C   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented business
without having secured a sexually oriented business work permit pursuant to
this chapter.
   D   Sexually oriented business licenses will be limited to one license for
one to six thousand (6,000) residents, and two licenses for six thousand one
(6,001) to twelve thousand (12,000) residents of the city of Monticello. Any
available license will be issued on a first come, first serve basis. (Ord.
2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-3-4: BUSINESS LICENSE; APPLICATION; DISCLOSURE:
   A   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he shall sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, the application shall include the full legal name, address, and
state of incorporation of the business. Each owner, officer, director, general
partner, member, or other person who owns a controlling interest in the
business, or who will participate directly in decisions relating to management
and control of the business, shall sign the license application as an
applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under this chapter and each
applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   B   Upon filing a completed application for a sexually oriented business
license or sexually oriented business work permit, the business license
official shall issue a temporary license to the applicant, which temporary
license shall expire upon the final decision of the city to deny or grant the
license.
   C   An application shall be considered complete when it contains the
information required in subsections C1 through C6 of this section as follows:
      1   The full legal name and any other names or aliases used by the
applicant.
      2   The applicant's date and place of birth.
      3   Present business address and telephone number.
      4   Identification issued by a federal or state governmental agency with
the individual's colored photograph, signature, and physical description.
      5   Fingerprints on a form provided by a public safety department.
      6   The identity of each individual authorized by the corporation
partnership or noncorporate entity to receive service of process. If the
application is for a sexually oriented business license, the application shall
be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the interior configuration of the
premises, including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business.
The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to
a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
   D   Each applicant must provide a statement of whether the applicant has
been convicted of, or has pled guilty or nolo contendere to, a "specified
criminal activity" as defined in this chapter, and if so, the specified
criminal activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each.
   E   In the event the applicant is not the owner(s) of record of the real
property upon which the business or proposed business is or is to be located,
the application must be accompanied by a notarized statement from the legal or
equitable owner(s) of the possessory interest in the property specifically
acknowledging the type of business for which the applicant seeks a license to
operate a sexually oriented business on the property. In addition to furnishing
such notarized statement, the applicant shall furnish the name, address, and
phone number of the owner of record of the property, as well as the copy of the
lease or rental agreement pertaining to the premises on which the service is or
will be located. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-3-5: LICENSE AND WORK PERMIT FEES:
   A   Each applicant for a sexually oriented business license shall be
required to pay a regulatory license fee as set forth in the consolidated fee
schedule as adopted from time to time by the city council.
   B   This fee shall be in addition to the other licenses and fees required to
do business in the city. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-3-6: BUSINESS LICENSE TERM:
A license shall be issued for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months. All
sexually oriented business licensees shall expire on December 31 of each year
regardless of when issued. The license fees required shall not be prorated for
any portion of the year. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-3-7: LICENSE; DISPLAY:
Any sexually oriented business located within the boundaries of the city must
display the license granted pursuant to this chapter in a prominent public
location within the business premises. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-3-8: ISSUANCE:
   A   Under no circumstances shall the total time for the city to issue a
license or issue a written intent to deny an application for a license exceed
thirty (30) days from the receipt of a completed application. The business
license official shall issue a license to the applicant unless the official
finds one or more of the following to be true by a preponderance of the
evidence:
      1   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age or any higher age,
if the license sought requires a higher age.
      2   The applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines
or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed on the applicant in
relation to a sexually oriented business.
      3   The applicant has falsely answered a material question or request for
information specifically authorized by this chapter.
      4   The license fees required by this chapter have not been paid.
      5   All applicable sales and use taxes have not been paid.
      6   Each applicant must provide a statement of whether the applicant has
been convicted of, or has pled guilty or nolo contendere, to a "specified
criminal activity" as defined in this chapter, and if so, the specified
criminal activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each. The fact
that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the
disqualification pursuant to this section.
   B   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to the
licensee(s), the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually
oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business. The sexually
oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be easily read at any
time. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-3-9: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OF BUSINESS LICENSE PROHIBITED:
Sexually oriented business licenses granted under this chapter shall not be
transferable. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-3-10: CHANGE IN INFORMATION:
The licensee shall submit, in writing, any change in the information required
to be submitted under this chapter for either a sexually oriented business
license or sexually oriented business work permit to the business license
official within fourteen (14) days after such change. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007,
eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-4: ADDITIONAL BUILDING REGULATIONS:
3-11-4-1: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, films,
videocassettes, DVDs, or other video reproductions characterized by an emphasis
on the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas
shall comply with the following requirements. It shall be unlawful for a person
having a duty under this section to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
   A   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall contain
a diagram of the premises showing the location of all manager's stations,
viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, video cameras and monitors installed
for monitoring purposes and restrooms, and shall designate all portions of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. Restrooms shall not contain
video reproduction equipment. The diagram shall also designate the place at
which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram shall be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (±6"). The business license official may waive the foregoing diagram for
renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
   B   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the applicant.
   C   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station or
viewing room may be made without the prior approval of the business license
official.
   D   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection A of this section.
   E   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
   F   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that no sexual activity occurs in or on the licensed
premises.
   G   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that not more than one person is present in a viewing
room at any time. No person shall enter a viewing room that is occupied by
another person.
   H   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that no openings of any kind exist between viewing
rooms. No person shall make an attempt to make an opening of any kind between
viewing rooms.
   I   It shall be the duty of the operator, or of any employee who discovers
two (2) or more patrons in a viewing room, or discovers any person making or
attempting to make an opening of any kind between viewing rooms, to immediately
escort such persons from the premises.
   J   It shall be the duty of the operator, or of any employee who discovers
an opening of any kind between viewing rooms, to immediately secure such rooms,
and prevent entry into them by any patron until such time as the wall between
the rooms has been repaired to remove the opening. Removal and repairing
openings between viewing rooms shall be in a manner that is as structurally
substantial as the original wall construction.
   K   It shall be the duty of the operator, at least once each business day,
to inspect the walls between viewing rooms for openings of any kind.
   L   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in well
lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
      1   That no loitering is permitted in viewing rooms.
      2   That the occupancy of viewing rooms is limited to one person.
      3   That sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
      4   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
      5   That violators will be required to leave the premises.
      6   That violations of subsections L2, L3 and L4 of this section are
unlawful.
   M   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that floor coverings in
viewing rooms are nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or
carpeting.
   N   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that all wall surfaces
and seating surfaces in viewing rooms are constructed of, or permanently
covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material.
   O   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that premises are clean
and sanitary. Such duty shall be fulfilled if the operator complies with the
following cleaning procedures:
      1   The operator shall maintain a regular cleaning schedule of at least
two (2) cleanings per day, documented by appropriate logs.
      2   The operator shall provide an employee to check all areas for
garbage, trash, body fluids and excrement and to remove and clean all areas
with a disinfectant. All solid waste generated by the business shall be
collected from the premises for disposal at a lawful solid waste disposal
facility at least once each week. Prior to collection, solid waste shall be
stored in a manner that prevents access by animals or members of the public and
which will not facilitate the creation of a health nuisance.
      3   Thorough cleaning of the entire interior of any room providing patron
privacy shall be done using a disinfectant. Cleaning shall include floors,
walls, doors, seating, monitors, video cameras, and windows and other surfaces.
   P   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the
premises in which patrons are permitted, including the interior of each viewing
room but excluding restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose. A manager's station shall not exceed forty (40) square feet of floor
area. If the premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then
the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is
an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations.
The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one
employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at all times that
any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it
shall also be the duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in this subsection remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or enclosures at
all times that any patron is present on the premises. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007,
eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-4-2: STAGE REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for an employee to knowingly or
intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appear in a state of seminudity
unless the employee is at least three feet (3') from patrons and customers and
on a stage at least two feet (2') from the floor. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff.
7-9-2007)
3-11-5: EMPLOYEE AND PATRON REGULATIONS:
3-11-5-1: EMPLOYEE WORK PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to act as a sexually oriented business employee,
without first obtaining a sexually oriented business work permit, as specified
in section
3-11-5-2 et seq., of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-5-2: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE WORK PERMIT; OBTAIN BEFORE
WORKING:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to employ, or for any
individual to be employed as a sexually oriented business employee unless that
employee first obtains a sexually oriented business employee work permit. (Ord.
2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-5-3: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE WORK PERMIT APPLICATION;
DISCLOSURE:
   A   Upon the filing of a completed application for a sexually oriented
business employee work permit, the business license official shall issue a
temporary license to the applicant, which temporary license shall expire upon
the final decision of the city to deny or grant the work permit. An application
shall be considered complete when it contains the information required in
subsections A1 through A5 of this section as follows:
      1   The correct legal name of each applicant.
      2   Present business address and telephone number.
      3   Identification issued by a federal or state governmental agency with
the individual's date of birth, colored photograph, signature, and physical
description.
      4   The individual's fingerprints on a form provided by a public safety
department.
      5   Each applicant must provide a statement of whether the applicant has
been convicted of, or has pled guilty or nolo contendere, to a "specified
criminal activity" as defined in this chapter, and if so, the specified
criminal activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each. The fact
that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the
disqualification pursuant to this section.
   B   A license or permit required by this section
3-11-5 is in addition to any other licenses or permits required by the city,
county, or state to engage in the business or occupation. Persons engaged in
the operation of a sexually oriented business or in employment in a sexually
oriented business shall comply with all other applicable local, state, and
federal laws, ordinances, and statutes, including zoning ordinances, as may be
required.
   C   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the city on
a confidential basis, except that such information may be disclosed only to law
enforcement agencies in connection with a law enforcement or public safety
function, or as may be required by governing law or court order. The
information provided by a sexually oriented business license applicant in
connection with the application for a license under this chapter shall be
maintained by the business license official. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-
2007)
3-11-5-4: STATE LICENSING EXEMPTION:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sex therapist or similar
individual licensed by the state of Utah to provide bona fide sexual therapy or
counseling, a licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse, psychiatrist, or
psychologist while providing professional services for which they are licensed,
nor shall it apply to any educator licensed by the state of Utah for activities
in the classroom. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-5-5: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE WORK PERMIT; ISSUANCE AND TERM:
   A   Within thirty (30) days of the initial filing date of the receipt of a
completed application, the business license official shall either issue a
license or issue a written notice of intent to deny a license to the applicant.
The business license official shall approve the issuance of a license unless
one or more of the following is found by a preponderance of evidence to be
true:
      1   The applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      2   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by
subsection A4 of this section for issuance of a license or has falsely answered
a question or request for information on the application form.
      3   The license application fee required by this section has not been
paid.
      4   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity",
as defined in this chapter, or has been shown to have committed two (2) or more
violations of section
3-11-5-9 of this chapter within the previous year.
   B   Sexually oriented business employee work permits may be obtained at any
time throughout the year. All employee work permits will expire on the last day
of the twelfth month following issuance.
   C   Sexually oriented business licenses and sexually oriented business
employee work permits may be renewed only by making application and payment of
a fee as provided for in this chapter. Application for renewal should be made
at least ninety (90) days before the expiration date of said licenses and work
permits, and when made less than ninety (90) days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license or work permit will not be effected. (Ord. 2007-
1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-5-6: CHANGE IN EMPLOYEE INFORMATION:
Any change in the information required to be submitted under this chapter for a
sexually oriented business work permit will be given, in writing, to the
business license official within fourteen (14) days after such change. (Ord.
2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-5-7: LICENSE FEES:
Each applicant for a sexually oriented employee work permit shall be required
to pay yearly regulatory license fees pursuant to the consolidated fee schedule
as adopted by the city council. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-5-8: LICENSE DISPLAY:
A sexually oriented business employee shall keep the employee's work permit on
his or her person or on the premises where the licensee is then working and
shall, while working on the sexually oriented business premises, produce such
work permit for inspection upon request by a law enforcement officer or other
city official performing functions connected with the enforcement of this
chapter. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-5-9: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business licensee or sexually oriented
business employee to knowingly or intentionally:
   A   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years, or the age of twenty
one (21) years if required by any applicable alcohol ordinance, on the business
premises;
   B   Allow, offer or agree to gambling on the business premises;
   C   Allow, offer or agree to the illegal possession, use, sale or
distribution of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
   D   Permit, commit, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or commit activities harmful to the minor
to occur on the licensed premises;
   E   Permit, commit, offer or agree to permit any live specified sexual
activity as defined by city ordinances or state statutes in the presence of any
customer or patron;
   F   Permit, offer or agree to a patron or customer to masturbate within or
upon the premises of a sexually oriented business;
   G   Appear in a state of nudity before a patron on the premises of a
sexually oriented business;
   H   Refuse to permit officers or agents of the city of Monticello who are
performing functions connected with the enforcement of this chapter to inspect
the portions of the sexually oriented business premises where patrons are
permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with this chapter, at any
time the sexually oriented business is occupied by patrons or open for
business. A licensee's knowing or intentional refusal to permit such an
inspection shall constitute a violation of this section. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to areas of an adult motel which are currently being
rented by a customer for use as a permanent or temporary habitation. (Ord.
2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-5-10: ACTIVITIES OF PATRONS:
It is unlawful for any patron to knowingly or intentionally:
   A   Touch in any manner a sexually oriented business employee while the
sexually oriented business employee is seminude;
   B   Place any money or object on or within the costume or person of any
sexually oriented business employee while the sexually oriented business
employee is seminude; or
   C   Appear in a state of nudity before another person on the premises of a
sexually oriented business. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-6: GENERAL APPLICABILITY; ACTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS; DEFENSES:
3-11-6-1: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS TO EXISTING BUSINESSES:
   A   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described in this chapter, whether the described activities were
established before or after the effective date hereof, and regardless of
whether such persons and businesses are currently licensed to do business in
the city.
   B   Upon adoption, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
activities of all sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business
employees described herein, whether such businesses or activities were
established or commenced before, on, or after the effective date hereof. (Ord.
2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-6-2: INJUNCTIONS:
An entity or individual who, without a valid license, operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business or who employs or is employed as an
employee of a sexually oriented business, or who operates such a business or
functions as such an employee in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
is subject to a suit for injunction in addition to the civil and criminal
violations provided in this chapter, and any other remedy available at law or
in equity. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-6-3: SUSPENSION:
The city shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a sexually oriented
business license for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days if it is
determined that the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly violated
this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee to violate this chapter. The
city shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a sexually oriented
employee work permit if it is determined that the employee has knowingly
violated this chapter. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-6-4: REVOCATION:
   A   Written Intent To Revoke; Suspension Within Preceding Year: The business
license official shall issue a written intent to revoke a sexually oriented
business license or a sexually oriented business employee work permit if a
cause of suspension in section
3-11-6-5 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B   Written Intent To Revoke; Acts Committed With Knowledge Of Licensee: The
business license official shall issue a written intent to revoke a sexually
oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee work permit
if the official determines that a licensee or an employee, with the knowledge
of the licensee:
      1   Knowingly gave false or misleading information in the application or
in any document or diagram related to the operation of the sexually oriented
business.
      2   Knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of controlled substances
on the premises.
      3   Knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises.
      4   Knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during a period of
time when the licensee's license was suspended.
      5   A licensee has been convicted, pled guilty, or pled nolo contendere
to a "specified criminal activity" as defined in this chapter.
      6   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any specified sexual
activity to occur in or on the licensed premises.
      7   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city of taxes or fees
related to the sexually oriented business.
   C   Appeal To Have No Effect: The fact that any conviction is being appealed
shall have no effect on the revocation of the license.
   D   Effect Of Employee Acts On Business License: For the purposes of this
chapter, an act by a sexually oriented business employee that constitutes
grounds for revocation of that employee's work permit shall be imputed to the
sexually oriented business for purposes of denial, suspension, or revocation
proceedings only if the hearing officer determines by a preponderance of
evidence that an officer, director, or general partner, or an employee who
managed, supervised, or controlled the operation of the business, knowingly
allowed such act to occur on the sexually oriented business premises.
   E   Nature Of Revocation: When, after the notice and hearing procedure
described in this chapter, the business license official revokes a license, the
revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a
sexually oriented business license for one year from the date revocation
becomes effective, provided, that, if the conditions of section
3-11-6-5 of this chapter are met, a provisional license will be granted
pursuant to that section. If, subsequent to revocation, the enforcement officer
finds that the basis for the revocation found in subsections B1, B4 and B7 of
this section has been corrected or abated, the applicant shall be granted a
license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date the revocation
became effective. If the license was revoked under subsections B2, B3, B5 and
B6 of this section, an applicant may not be granted another license until the
appropriate number of years required under this chapter has elapsed. (Ord.
2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-6-5: HEARING, REVOCATION, LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION; APPEAL:
   A   Notification: If the business license official determines that facts
exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of a license under this chapter,
the city shall notify the applicant or licensee (respondent) in writing of the
city's intent to deny, suspend or revoke the license, including the grounds
therefor, by personal delivery, or by certified mail.
      1   The notification shall be directed to the most current business
address or other mailing address on file with the business license official for
the respondent. Within ten (10) working days of receipt of such notice, the
respondent may provide to the business license official a written response that
shall include a statement of reasons why the respondent believes the license
should not be denied, suspended, or revoked.
      2   Within five (5) days of the receipt of respondent's written response,
the business license official shall notify respondent in writing of the hearing
date on respondent's denial, suspension, or revocation proceeding. Within ten
(10) working days of the receipt of respondent's written response, the hearing
officer shall conduct a hearing at which respondent shall have the opportunity
to present all of respondent's arguments and to be represented by counsel,
present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross examine any of
the city's witnesses. The hearing shall take no longer than two (2) days,
unless extended to meet the requirements of due process and proper
administration of justice. The hearing officer shall issue a written opinion
within five (5) days after the hearing. If a court action challenging the
city's decision is initiated, the city shall prepare and transmit to the court
a transcript of the hearing within ten (10) days after the issuance of the
hearing officer's written opinion.
      3   If a written response from respondent is not received by the business
license official within the time stated in subsection A1 of this section, or if
after a hearing, the hearing officer concludes that grounds as specified in
this chapter exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of the license, then
such denial, suspension, or revocation shall become final five (5) days after
the hearing officer sends, by certified mail, written notice to the respondent
that the license has been denied, suspended, or revoked. Such notice shall
include a statement advising the respondent of the right to appeal such
decision to a court of competent jurisdiction. If the hearing officer finds
that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of a license, then
within five (5) days after the hearing, the hearing officer shall immediately
withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the license and shall notify
the respondent in writing by certified mail of such action. The hearing officer
shall contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   B   Appeal: An applicant or licensee (aggrieved party) whose application for
a license has been denied or whose license has been suspended or revoked shall
have the right to appeal such action to a court of competent jurisdiction. Upon
the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain, or otherwise
enjoin the city's enforcement of the denial, suspension, or revocation, the
city shall immediately issue the aggrieved party a provisional license. The
provisional license shall allow the aggrieved party to continue operation of
the sexually oriented business or to continue employment as a sexually oriented
business employee and will expire upon the court's entry of a judgment on the
aggrieved party's appeal or other action to restrain or otherwise enjoin the
city's enforcement.
   C   Application Of Ordinance During Temporary License Or Provisional License
Periods: Sexually oriented businesses or sexually oriented business employees
operating or working under temporary licenses, provisional licenses, or de
facto temporary licenses shall be subject to the applicable provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
3-11-6-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
In addition to revocation or suspension of a license as provided in this
chapter, the violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a class B
misdemeanor. Each day of a violation shall be considered a separate offense.
The prosecuting agency shall have the discretion to charge any offense under
this chapter as an infraction. (Ord. 2007-1, 6-14-2007, eff. 7-9-2007)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Established
4-1-2: Fire Chief Position Created
4-1-3: Powers And Duties Of Fire Chief
4-1-4: Designation Of Emergency Vehicles
4-1-5: Responsibilities, Rights And Restrictions
4-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a fire department to be known as the Monticello
volunteer fire department. (1978 Code § 10-111)
4-1-2: FIRE CHIEF POSITION CREATED:
There is hereby created the position of chief of the fire department. (1978
Code § 10-121)
4-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF:
   A   Supervision Of Department: The chief shall have responsibility for the
general supervision of the department.
   B   Control And Extinguish Fire: During a fire, the chief shall have full
authority to take all measures as he shall deem necessary, subject to state
law, to control and extinguish the fire.
   C   Report Information To City Council: The chief shall, at least quarterly,
report to the city council the condition of the fire equipment, the number of
fires and their causes and the estimated loss therefrom, together with such
other information as the city council may request or as he shall deem
appropriate.
   D   Enforce Fire Protection And Prevention: The chief shall strictly enforce
all of the provisions of the ordinances of the city relating to the protection
against and prevention of fire.
   E   Maintain Equipment: The chief shall maintain the equipment of the
department in good repair and order and ready for use.
   F   Establish Rules And Regulations: The chief, subject to the approval of
the city manager, shall establish rules and regulations for the operation of
the department.
   G   Delegate Duties: The chief may delegate his duties to any person
employed by the department, but such delegation shall not relieve the chief of
his responsibility for the performance thereof.
   H   Investigation Of Fires: The chief shall cause all fires to be promptly
investigated to determine the cause of the fire and report the cause of the
fire, the time originated and such other information as may be relevant to
prevent other fires. (1978 Code § 10-122; amd. 1996 Code)
   I   Employ Firefighters And Personnel: The chief may make recommendations to
the city manager relating to the employment of firefighters and such other
personnel as may be necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
chief may employ such additional personnel as the mayor and city council may
direct or authorize. (1978 Code § 10-123; amd. 1996 Code)
   J   Declarations Of Fire Prevention Measures:
      1   In times of imminent fire danger, such as may be present during
extreme drought conditions, the chief shall have full authority, by
declaration, to impose any fire prevention regulations deemed necessary to
restrict or prohibit actions or circumstances with the potential of creating a
fire hazard.
      2   It shall be a class B misdemeanor for any person to violate the
regulations set forth by order of the fire chief. (Ord. 2002-3, 6-26-2002)
4-1-4: DESIGNATION OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Fire trucks and other motor vehicles used to transport fire equipment or fire
personnel are hereby designated authorized emergency vehicles. (1978 Code § 10-
131; amd. 1996 Code)
4-1-5: RESPONSIBILITIES, RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A   Removal Of Obstructions At Fire: The officer in charge at any fire may
order the removal or destruction of any fence, building or structure, or that
any utility be closed, cut or removed when deemed necessary to control,
extinguish or prevent the spread of fire. (1978 Code § 10-132)
   B   Control Of Persons: All persons present at a fire shall obey the lawful
orders of any firefighters. (1978 Code § 10-133)
   C   Interference With Firefighters In Discharge Of Duties: Every person at
the scene of any fire who wilfully disobeys the lawful orders of any public
officer or firefighter, or offers any resistance to or interference with the
efforts of any firefighter, or company of firefighters to extinguish the same,
or engages in any disorderly conduct calculated to prevent the same from being
extinguished, or who forbids, prevents or dissuades others from assisting to
extinguish the same, is guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-6 of this code. (1978 Code § 10-134; amd. 1996 Code)
   D   Unlawful Interference: Any person who shall wilfully hinder any officer
or firefighter in the discharge of his duty at a fire, or in any manner injure,
deface or destroy any engine, hose or other fire apparatus belonging to the
city or who shall interfere with any fire company or person, or who shall
wilfully break or injure any water pipe, or interfere with the water or its
source of supply, shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-6 of this code. (1978 Code § 10-135; amd. 1996 Code)
   E   Investigation After Fire Report: The chief, or such other persons as he
shall designate, shall make a prompt and thorough investigation of the cause of
all fires, the time the fire began, the amount of loss and insurance, a
description of the affected buildings and premises, and shall secure all other
useful information available, and record the same in a record book kept for
that purpose in the office of the department and shall report the same to the
city council at such time as it may direct. (1978 Code § 10-136; amd. 1996
Code)
   F   Right To Enter And Inspect: The fire chief or his deputies, upon
presentation of proper credentials, shall have the right to enter upon any
premises at all reasonable hours for the purpose of making inspections. (1978
Code § 10-137)
   G   Persons Present Subject To Orders: Every capable person eighteen (18)
years or older present at a fire shall be subject to the orders of the officer
in command and shall render assistance in the manner directed by the officer in
command. (1978 Code § 10-138; amd. 1996 Code)
   H   False Alarm: It shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-6 of this code, for any person to turn in or report to the fire department
a false alarm or report of a fire or to tamper or remove any part of the fire
alarm system. (1978 Code § 10-139; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisances Defined; Declaration
4-2-1-1: Definitions
4-2-1-2: Responsible Persons Defined
4-2-1-3: Declaration Of Specific Nuisances
4-2-1-4: Nuisance Prohibited
4-2-1-5: Restroom Or Sewer Facilities
4-2-1-6: Restrictions On Blocking Water
4-2-2: Nuisances On Property
4-2-2-1: Duty Of Maintenance Of Private Property
4-2-2-2: Enforcement Action
4-2-2-3: Request For Hearing
4-2-3: Abatement Procedure
4-2-3-1: Enforcement And Duties Of Inspector
4-2-3-2: Hearing
4-2-3-3: Failure To Comply; Abatement By City
4-2-3-4: Itemized Statement
4-2-3-5: Failure To Make Payment
4-2-3-6: Collection By Lawsuit
4-2-3-7: Criminal Proceeding
4-2-3-8: Penalty For Failure To Comply
4-2-1: NUISANCES DEFINED; DECLARATION:
4-2-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
          A nuisance is anything that is injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the
          senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
          comfortable enjoyment of life or property:
          A.   The following are factors that may be considered but may not necessarily be
          dispositive in determining nuisances and is not an exclusive list:
             1.   Noise that by reason of time, nature, intensity or duration are out of
          character with the noise customarily heard in the surrounding area.
             2.   Disturbing the peace of the surrounding properties by engaging in shouting,
          fighting, loud music, racing of cars or recreational vehicles on streets, or other
          similar activities after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. or similar activities that results
          in law enforcement response and action.
             3.   Interference with the privacy of neighboring properties or trespassing onto
          surrounding property.
             4.   The presence or release of noxious or offensive odors that passes onto the
          surrounding property.
             5.   Excessive foot or vehicular traffic after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. or the
          repeated blocking of the streets or creation of excessive vehicle traffic to or from
NUISANCE: the property out of character with the traffic customary for the surrounding area.
             6.   The collection or storage of materials, refuse, or equipment at a dwelling
          or dwelling accessory building or in the surrounding yard out of character with that
          customary for the surrounding area.
             7.   The dilapidation of the structures on the property or of the yard in
          contrast to the character of the surrounding properties.
             8.   The manufacture, distribution, possession, or presence of illegal substances
          on the property.
             9.   Water discharge, runoff, surface drainage, or animal waste that leaves the
          property or contaminates water ways or drainages.
          B.   The following are factors which may weigh against the finding of a nuisance
          which may not necessarily be dispositive and is not an exclusive list:
             1.   Noise, dust, odors, exhaust, storage of equipment, and materials caused by
          the temporary process of construction on the property.
             2.   Whether the activity on the property existed prior to the change in the
          character of the area.
             3.   Temporary road closure that has been permitted by the appropriate entity.
             4.   Allowed recreational activities at public or private parks that occur
          occasionally. (1978 Code § 10-331; amd. 1996 Code; Ord. passed 11-29-2022)
 
4-2-1-2: RESPONSIBLE PERSONS DEFINED:
Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the outgrowth of the usual,
natural, or necessary use of the property, the landlord or his agent, the
tenant or his agent, and all other persons having control of the property on
which such nuisance exists shall be equally liable and responsible. Where any
such nuisance shall arise from the unusual or unnecessary use of such property
or from the business thereon conducted, then the occupants and all other
persons contributing to the continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed the
authors thereof. (1978 Code § 10-312; amd. 1996 Code; Ord. passed 11-29-2022)
4-2-1-3: DECLARATION OF SPECIFIC NUISANCES:
The city may avail itself of all remedies available at law or in equity to
abate any nuisance or public nuisance. Each of the following acts is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and may be abated in as such:
   A.   Any act which constitutes a nuisance or public nuisance under state
law;
   B.   The occupation of any building or structure for which a certificate of
occupancy and land use compliance has not been issued; and
   C.   The occupation or use of a building or structure with a greater density
or intensity of use than is permitted in the certificate of occupancy and land
use compliance.
   D.   Discharging Offensive Water Or Liquid Waste: Discharging or placing any
offensive water, chemical, liquid waste, or refuse of any kind into any street,
alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural watercourse, ditch, canal, or
any vacant lot or which, as the result of continued discharge, will render the
place of discharge offensive or likely to become so.
   E.   Befouling Culinary Water: Befouling in any spring, stream, well or
water source supplying water for culinary purposes.
Other actions may be shown by evidence to constitute a nuisance resulting in a
title violation as outlined in this chapter. The types of nuisances above
stated shall be deemed in addition to and in no way a limitation of the
nuisances subject to this Chapter. (1978 Code § 10-313; amd. 1996 Code; Ord.
passed 11-29-2022)
4-2-1-4: NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
No responsible person or property owner shall allow a nuisance to exist or
continue on their property. (1978 Code § 10-314; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022)
4-2-1-5: RESTROOM OR SEWER FACILITIES:
All restroom or sewer facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with Utah law and City ordinances. All such facilities that do not
comply with such provisions are hereby declared to be a nuisance and are
subject to abatement as herein prescribed. (1978 Code § 10-315; 1996 Code)
4-2-1-6: RESTRICTIONS ON BLOCKING WATER:
   A   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any drainage system,
canal, ditch, conduit or other watercourse of any kind or nature, natural or
artificial, to become so obstructed as to cause the water to back up and
overflow therefrom, or to become unsanitary.
   B   Maintenance of any such watercourse in such condition shall constitute a
nuisance and the same shall be subject to abatement. (1978 Code § 10-316)
4-2-2: NUISANCES ON PROPERTY:
4-2-2-1: DUTY OF MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in any manner causing substantial diminution in the
value of the other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are
located. (1978 Code § 10-332; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022)
4-2-2-2: ENFORCEMENT ACTION:
The provisions of this title shall be administered by Planning and Zoning
Administrator, under the supervision of the City Council. The enforcement
officer may investigate alleged violations of this title and may initiate
enforcement actions if violations are found to exist. The enforcement officer
shall be authorized to make examination and investigation of all real property
in the city, as allowed by law, to determine whether the responsible person is
complying with the provisions of this chapter. The City Council may, in its
discretion, instruct the City Attorney to file such actions in court as are
necessary upon a showing of a violation. The city's non-enforcement of any of
the requirements of this chapter or conditions or rules imposed through this
title shall not operate to waive or stop the city from pursuing subsequent
enforcement actions. Permits issued in violation of this title shall have no
force or effect.
   A.   Responsibility For Violation Of Chapter: Anyone found to have committed
a violation of this chapter or any condition or rules imposed through this
title is a violating person and is responsible for correcting violations. In
the event a violating person cannot be ascertained after the exercise of due
diligence, the city may also institute proceedings as allowed by this section
or law against the property on which the violation has been committed.
   B.   Finding Of Violation: If, after investigating, the enforcement officer
has determined that a violation exists, the enforcement officer may attempt to
have the responsible person correct the violation in accordance with this
section. The officer may pursue any remedy or combination of remedies available
pursuant to this title, state law, or common law to correct the violation.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit the city from engaging
in its standard prosecution practices without first having to comply with the
provisions of this section. In the event a responsible person cannot be
ascertained, the city shall post notice on the property on which a title
violation has been committed and may institute proceedings against the property
or property owner itself as allowed by law.
   C.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided by city ordinance, whenever a violation
is found to exist and the Enforcement Officer determines action should be
taken, the Enforcement Officer shall first serve written notice to the
responsible person before other remedies in this section are taken. The notice
of violation shall contain:
         a.   The location of the violation, if the same is stationary;
         b.   A description of what constitutes the violation;
         c.   A list of the acts necessary to correct the violation
("corrective action");
         d.   The warning period, including the completion date, in which the
responsible person may cure the violation before civil fines are assessed for
the violation;
         e.   A statement of the actions the city will take if the violation is
not corrected within the warning period; and
         f.   A statement that the responsible person may enter into a
voluntary correction agreement during the warning period to prevent further
action by the city.
      2.   The written notice shall be delivered personally or sent via
certified mail to the responsible person's address, as shown on the records of
the city recorder, and to any other person who may be responsible for the
violation.
      3.   The written notice shall serve to start any warning periods provided
in this section, commencing upon receipt of notice. If the violation remains
uncured once the warning period expires, the civil penalties shall begin to
accrue in accordance with this section.
      4.   In cases where the enforcement officer determines that a delay of
enforcement would pose a danger to the public health, safety or welfare, or
would otherwise compromise the effective enforcement of this title, the
enforcement officer may seek immediate enforcement under subsection F2 of this
section without prior written notice.
   D.   Civil Fines:
      1.   Civil fines shall be assessed to the responsible person for
uncorrected violations beginning on the day following the completion date (as
stated in either the notice of violation or the voluntary correction
agreement). The amount of such fine shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
day the violation continues after the completion date.
      2.   Daily Violation: Each day a violation is continued or maintained
after the completion date shall give rise to a separate civil fine. All
applicable fines shall cease the following day after the enforcement officer
receives written notice from the responsible person that the corrective action
is complete. The City may waive any fees accrued if corrective action is
completed. Within five (5) business days, the enforcement officer shall inspect
and pass off the corrective action as completed, and, if not completed, fines
shall be applied retroactively to the date notification was received and shall
continue to accrue in accordance with this section.
      3.   The civil fine shall be cumulative. Payment of a civil fine pursuant
to this section does not relieve the responsible person from the duty to
correct the violation. The civil fine constitutes a personal obligation of the
responsible person or a lien against the subject property, as the case
requires. Any civil fine assessed must be paid to the city within thirty (30)
calendar days of incurrence.
      4.   The city Planning and Zoning Administrator, upon approval by the
city council, is authorized to take appropriate action to negotiate the amount
of the civil fine, collect the fine, determine the time period in which the
fine shall be paid, and take any other action necessary to resolve the fine.
      5.   Collection: The City is authorized to take appropriate action to
collect the civil fines by any and all appropriate means, whether in personam
or in rem. The city may collect reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred in
collecting the civil fine where allowed by law. The city may collect pre- and
post-judgment interest on such civil fines.
      6.   The incurrence of civil fines under this section shall not limit the
available remedies of the city under this section.
   E.   Voluntary Corrective Action: The enforcement officer may allow the
responsible person to take voluntary correction action. Voluntary correction
action allows the responsible person to correct the violation within a
specified time and according to specified conditions. If the responsible person
completes the voluntary corrective action, the city will take no further
actions against the responsible person, unless a violation recurs. This option
is a privilege and not a right, and, if the circumstances warrant, the
enforcement officer may choose to correct the violation using one or more of
the other procedures set forth in this title or law.
      1.   Contents of a written voluntary corrective action shall include the
following:
         a.   The name and address of the responsible person;
         b.   The street address of the title violation, or a description
sufficient to identify the building, structure, premises or land upon or within
which the violation exists;
         c.   A description of the violation;
         d.   The necessary corrective action to be taken, and a date or time
by which correction or abatement must be completed ("completion date"). The
completion date shall not be longer than six (6) months from the date the
agreement is entered into;
         e.   An agreement by the responsible person that the city may inspect
the premises as may be necessary to determine compliance with the voluntary
corrective action;
         f.   An agreement by the responsible person that, if the terms of the
agreement are not met, the city may:
            (1)   Issue a civil fine or criminal citation;
            (2)   Correct the violation, recover its costs and expenses, and
place a lien on the property; and/or
            (3)   Pursue any other legal remedy available;
         g.   An agreement by the responsible person acknowledging that he/she
waives the right to appeal the enforcement officer's finding that a violation
exists and the right to appeal the specific corrective action required by the
voluntary correction agreement; and
         h.   An acknowledgment by the responsible person that failure to
comply with the voluntary correction agreement may be grounds for criminal
prosecution.
      2.   Extension Of Time: The enforcement officer may grant an extension of
time for correcting the violation for completion of the voluntary corrective
action if the responsible person has shown due diligence and/or substantial
progress in abating the violation but unforeseen circumstances render
correction or abatement under the original conditions unattainable.
      3.   Temporary Stay: The enforcement officer will delay further
enforcement actions and monetary fines will be temporarily suspended once a
voluntary corrective action has been undertaken. However, the responsible
person shall still be liable for any accrued fines.
      4.   Failure To Comply: Failure to complete the corrective action by the
completion date shall constitute an additional violation and shall be handled
in accordance with this section, except that no further notice need be given
before enforcement proceedings are initiated. The city may proceed on the
violation pertaining to failure to comply with the voluntary corrective action
and/or the original violation. Monetary fines shall be imposed from either the
date of the initial violation or the day following the failure to comply with
the voluntary corrective action and shall continue to accrue thereafter as set
forth in this Section.
   F.   Abatement By City:
      1.   Once the enforcement officer has exercised due diligence in
obtaining compliance from the responsible person in accordance with this
section and this title, and the responsible person fails to correct the
violation, it shall then constitute a Class B misdemeanor. Upon conviction of
the violating party of the violation a court may authorize the city to enter
upon the subject property and remove, correct, or abate the condition which is
subject to the violation. The city shall provide the court an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the removal and any destruction and
request payment within sixty (60) days as restitution in the court case. The
court may authorize seizure of personal property as restitution.
      2.   Emergency Abatement: Whenever a violation constitutes an immediate
and emergent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, or to the
environment, the city, when feasible and allowed by law, may summarily and
without prior notice correct or abate the condition. Notice of such abatement,
including the reason for it, shall be given to the responsible person as soon
as reasonably possible after the correction or abatement.
      3.   Confiscation Of Property: During an abatement proceeding, any
personal property constituting a violation may be confiscated as part of the
abatement process. Any property that has been confiscated will be held pending
order of restitution. The owner may recover the property upon showing that the
violation has been corrected or that substantial efforts, as determined by the
enforcement officer, have been made to correct the violation; provided,
however, that the property owner pay the cost of storage of the property. If,
after ninety (90) days of the property being confiscated, the property owner
fails to claim the confiscated property, and after the city complies with the
requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 77-24a-5, as amended, the city may
dispose of the property, including sale at auction, disposal, etc., and seek to
collect the cost of storage from the property owner. The city may also pursue
any other remedy as allowed by law.
      4.   Costs Declared Lien: Any and all costs incurred by the city in the
abatement of a violation under the provisions of this title or other city
ordinance shall constitute a lien against the property upon which such
violation existed, which lien shall be filed, proven and collected as provided
for by law. Such lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest at the legal rate thereafter until satisfied.
   G.   Civil Enforcement: Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by
the city in law or in equity to prevent any violation of this title, to prevent
unlawful construction, to recover damages, including the cost, if any, of
correcting the violation, to restrain, correct or abate a violation, and to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises.
   H.   Nonexclusive Remedies, Building Permits, Etc.: The City may take any or
all of the actions listed in this title to abate, enjoin or correct a
violation, including against any person or entity that creates, causes, or
allows a violation to exist, and to recover damages for violation of this title
or other city zoning ordinances. The abatement of a violation does not
prejudice the right of the city or any person to recover damages or penalties
for its past existence. Notwithstanding the procedures outlined in this
section, the city may also enforce this title and other violations as provided
under State law. (1978 Code § 10-333; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022)
4-2-2-3: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
   A.   Informal Hearing; Written Decision: At the written request of an owner,
occupant or other person having an interest in property which is the subject of
a notice of a violation on property, the City Council shall conduct an informal
hearing (which need not be reported), wherein such persons may present such
evidence and argument as is pertinent to the question of whether or not the
removal or abatement of the objects or conditions is properly within the
purview of this Chapter. The City Council shall also permit the presentation of
evidence and argument by the enforcement officer and other interested parties.
Thereafter within not less than five (5) nor more than twenty-one (21) days,
the City Council shall, over the signature of the Mayor, or such other member
of the City Council as it may designate, render its written decision, a copy of
which shall be mailed to or served upon the owner or any other person to whom
the original notice was given by the enforcement officer.
   B.   Notice Of Decision; Abatement By Owner Or Occupant: In the event the
decision of the City Council upholds the determination, the notice originally
given by the enforcement officer as above provided shall be deemed to be
sufficient to require the owner or occupant to remove or abate the violation,
and he shall have up to ten (10) days from the date of notice of the decision
within which to conform thereto, unless additional time, not to exceed thirty
(30) days, is authorized by the enforcement officer.
   C.   Time Period For Compliance: In the event that the decision of the City
Council either overrules or modifies the determination, the written decision of
the City Council shall inform the owner or occupant of that fact and set forth
the details and extent to which the owner or occupant must make removal or
other abatement of the violation, if any. The owner or occupant shall be
required to conform to the decision of the City Council within ten (10) days
after service or mailing of a copy of the decision, and the decision shall be
deemed to be the modified decision, unless additional time is authorized by the
City Council. (1978 Code § 10-334; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022)
4-2-3: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
4-2-3-1: ENFORCEMENT AND DUTIES OF INSPECTOR:
   A   Chief Of Police; City Manager: The Chief of Police shall enforce the
provisions of this Chapter. The Chief of Police, the City Manager, or a
designee shall act as Inspector under this Section.
   B   Existence Of Objectional Condition: If an objectionable condition exists
in violation of this Chapter, the Inspector shall:
      1   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and descriptions of
the premises where such objects and conditions constituting a nuisance exist.
      2   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such premises,
either personally or by mailing notice prepaid, addressed to the owner and
occupant at their last known post office addresses as disclosed by the records
of the County Assessor, or as otherwise ascertained, requiring such owner or
occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy and remove the
nuisance within such time as the Inspector may designate; provided, that any
person notified pursuant to this subsection shall be given at least ten (10),
but not more than twenty (20) days, as determined by the Inspector following
the date of service of such notice, to correct the objectionable condition. The
notice shall:
         a   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation and
generally describe the premises on which the violation exists.
         b   Inform the owner, occupant or other person that in the event he
disagrees with the determination of the Inspector and does not wish to comply
with the provisions of the notice or that he objects to the factual or legal
basis for the notice, he may request in writing a hearing before the City
Council at a time and place to be set by the City Council. A written
application for a hearing shall state the time within which the person must
conform to the provisions of the notice.
         c   Inform the person that in the event he fails or neglects to
correct the objectionable condition, the City will correct the objectionable
condition and will collect the costs of so correcting the objectionable
condition by a court action, in which case he will be assessed such costs,
together with reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      3   In the event the owner or occupant makes such request for a hearing,
the City Council shall set the time and place for hearing objections and the
City Recorder/Clerk shall notify the owner, occupant or other persons having an
interest in said property on the condition thereof in writing of the time and
place at which they may appear and be heard. The hearing shall be held not
sooner than five (5) days from the date of service or mailing of the notice of
hearing. (1978 Code § 10-351; 1996 Code)
4-2-3-2: HEARING:
   A   Informal Hearing; Written Decision: At the written request of an owner,
occupant or other person having an interest in property which is the subject of
a notice to remove or abate weeds, objectionable conditions or objects from the
property, the City Council shall conduct an informal hearing (which need not be
reported), wherein such persons may present such evidence and argument as is
pertinent to the question of whether or not the removal or abatement of the
objects or conditions is properly within the purview of this Chapter. The City
Council shall also permit the presentation of evidence and argument by the
Inspector and other interested parties. Thereafter within not less than five
(5) nor more than ten (10) days, the City Council shall, over the signature of
the Mayor, or such other member of the City Council as it may designate, render
its written decision, a copy of which shall be mailed to or served upon the
owner or any other person to whom the original notice was given by the
Inspector.
   B   Notice Of Decision; Abatement By Owner Or Occupant: In the event the
decision of the City Council upholds the determination, the notice originally
given by the Inspector as above provided shall be deemed to be sufficient to
require the owner or occupant to remove or abate the objectionable objects or
conditions, and he shall have up to ten (10) days from the date of notice of
the decision within which to conform thereto, unless additional time, not to
exceed thirty (30) days, is authorized by the Inspector.
   C   Time Period For Compliance: In the event that the decision of the City
Council either overrules or modifies the determination, the written decision of
the City Council shall apprise the owner or occupant of that fact and set forth
the details and extent to which the owner or occupant must make removal or
other abatement of the objectionable objects or conditions, if any. The owner
or occupant shall be required to conform to the decision of the City Council
within ten (10) days after service or mailing of a copy of the decision, and
the decision shall be deemed to be the modified decision, unless additional
time is authorized by the City Council.
   D   Filing Of Amended Notice: The City Manager shall file an amended notice
and proof of service of notice. (1978 Code § 10-352; 1996 Code)
4-2-3-3: FAILURE TO COMPLY; ABATEMENT BY CITY:
If any owner, occupant or other person having an interest in land described in
such notice of decision, to whom the notice was given, shall fail or neglect to
conform to the requirements thereof relating to the eradication, destruction or
removal of such weeds, garbage, refuse, objects or structures, the City Manager
shall employ all necessary measures to cause such objectional nuisance or
condition to be removed or destroyed and to collect any expenses incurred from
said owner, occupant, or other reasonable party. (1978 Code § 10-353; 1996
Code)
4-2-3-4: ITEMIZED STATEMENT:
The City Manager shall prepare an itemized statement of all expenses incurred
in the removal and destruction of nuisances, and shall mail a copy thereof to
the owner or occupant or both or to persons having an interest in the property,
demanding payment within twenty (20) days of the date of mailing. The notice
shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail, addressed to the last
known address of the property owner, occupant or persons having an interest in
the property. (1978 Code § 10-354; 1996 Code)
4-2-3-5: FAILURE TO MAKE PAYMENT:
In the event the owner, occupant or person having an interest in the property
fails to make payment of the amount set forth in the statement to the City
within the twenty (20) days, the City Manager may cause suit to be brought in
an appropriate court of law. (1978 Code § 10-355; 1996 Code)
4-2-3-6: COLLECTION BY LAWSUIT:
In the event collection of expenses of destruction and removal are pursued
through the courts, the City shall sue and receive judgment for all of said
expenses of destruction and removal, together with reasonable attorney fees,
interest and court costs, and shall execute upon such judgment in the manner
provided by law. (1978 Code § 10-356)
4-2-3-7: CRIMINAL PROCEEDING:
The commencement of criminal proceedings for the purpose of imposing penalties
for violations of this Chapter shall not be conditioned upon prior issuance of
a notice or the granting to the defendant an opportunity to abate or remove the
nuisance. The provisions of this Chapter relating to notice and abatement shall
be deemed merely alternative and additional methods of securing conformity to
the provisions of this Chapter. (1978 Code § 10-358)
4-2-3-8: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A   Class C Misdemeanor: Any owner, occupant or person having an interest in
property subject to this Chapter who shall fail to comply with the notice or
order given pursuant to this Chapter shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor
and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code for each offense.
   B   Criminal Proceedings: Compliance by any owner, occupant or person to
whom a notice has been given subsequent to the commencement of criminal
proceedings as provided in this Chapter shall not be admissible in any criminal
proceeding brought pursuant to this Section. (1978 Code § 10-359; 1996 Code)
ARTICLE A. NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Definitions And Standards
4-2A-2: Motor Vehicle Noise
4-2A-3: Prohibited Noises
4-2A-4: Exemptions
4-2A-5: Additional Remedies
4-2A-1: DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS:
All terminology used in this Chapter and not defined below shall be in
conformance with applicable American Standards Institute Publications,
including but not limited to Sl. 1-1960, R 1971, or those from its successor
publications or bodies. For the purposes of this Chapter, certain words and
phrases used herein are defined as follows:
CONTINUOUS SOUND: Any sound which exists, essentially without interruption, for
a period of ten (10) minutes or more.
CYCLICALLY VARYING NOISE: Any sound which varies in sound level such that the
same level is obtained repetitively at reasonably uniform intervals of time.
DECIBEL: Logarithmic and dimensionless unit of measure often used in describing
the amplitude of sound. Decibel is denoted as dB.
DEVICE: Any mechanism which is intended to produce, or which actually produces,
noise when operated or handled.
DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE: (Commonly referred to as Jacobs Brake.) A device used
primarily on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an internal
combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of braking without the
use of wheel brakes.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle used in response to a public calamity or to
protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
EMERGENCY WORK: Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity, or work required to protect persons or property
from an imminent exposure to danger.
IMPULSIVE NOISE: A noise containing excursions usually less than one second.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled by mechanical power,
including but not limited to passenger cars, trucks, truck trailers, semi-
trailers. campers, motorcycles, minibikes, go-carts, snowmobiles and racing
vehicles.
MUFFLER: An apparatus consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates
designed for the purpose of transmitting gases while reducing sound emanating
from such apparatus.
NOISE: Any sound which is unwanted or which causes or tends to cause an adverse
psychological or physiological effect on human beings.
NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any sound which annoys or disturbs reasonable persons with
normal sensitivities, or which injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, hearing, peace and safety of other persons.
PERSON: Any human being, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust, corporation, company, contractor, supplier, installer, user,
owner or operator, including any municipal corporation or its officers or
employees.
PLAINLY AUDIBLE NOISE: Any noise for which the information content of that
noise is unambiguously transferred to the listener, such as, but not limited
to, understanding of spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised
or normal, or comprehension of musical rhythms.
PROPERTY BOUNDARY: An imaginary line exterior to any enclosed structure, at the
ground surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real property
owned by one person from that owned by another person.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, or alley or
similar place which is owned or controlled by a public governmental entity.
STATIONARY NOISE SOURCE: Any device, fixed or movable, which is located or used
on property other than a public right of way.
STEADY NOISE: A sound pressure level which remains essentially constant during
the period of observation.
USE DISTRICT: Those districts established by the Monticello City Zoning Title.
(1978 Code § 10-361; 1996 Code)
4-2A-2: MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE:
   A   Not To Preclude Enforcement Of Other Provisions: This Section shall
apply to the total noise from a vehicle or combination of vehicles and shall
not be construed as limiting or precluding the enforcement of any other
provisions of this Chapter relating to motor vehicle mufflers for noise
control.
   B   Exhaust System Regulations: No person shall operate or cause to be
operated any motor vehicle unless the exhaust system of such vehicle is:
      1   Free from defects which affect sound reduction;
      2   Equipped with a muffler or other noise dissipative device; and
      3   Not equipped with any cut-out, by-pass or similar device. (1978 Code
§ 10-367; 1996 Code)
4-2A-3: PROHIBITED NOISES:
   A   General Prohibitions: In addition to the specific prohibitions outlined
in subsection B below, it shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue,
or cause to be made or continued any noise disturbance within the City.
   B   Specific Prohibitions: The following acts are declared to be in
violation of this Chapter:
      1   Horns And Signaling Devices: Sounding of any horn or signaling device
on any truck, automobile, motorcycle, emergency vehicle or other vehicle on any
street or public place within the county or any city therein except as a danger
warning signal as provided in the Vehicle Code of the State, or the sounding of
any such signaling device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      2   Radios, Television Sets, Musical Instruments, And Similar Devices:
         a   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation of any radio
receiving set, musical instrument, television, phonograph, drum or other
machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound, except as
provided for in subsection B3 below, or in such a manner as to cause a noise
disturbance.
         b   The operating of any such device between the hours of nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day in such a manner as
to be plainly audible at the property boundary of the source or plainly audible
at fifty feet (50') (15 meters) from such device when operated within a vehicle
parked on a public right of way.
      3   Public Loudspeakers: Using or operating a loudspeaker or sound
amplifying equipment in a fixed or movable position or mounted upon any sound
vehicle in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park, place, or public property
for the purpose of commercial advertising, giving instructions, directions,
talks, addresses, lectures, or transmitting music to any persons or assemblages
of persons in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance.
      4   Hawkers And Peddlers: Selling anything by outcry within any area of
the City therein zoned primarily for residential uses in such a manner as to
cause a noise disturbance. The provisions of this Section shall not be
construed to prohibit the selling by outcry of merchandise, food, and beverages
at licensed sporting events, parades, fairs, circuses, and other similar
licensed public entertainment events.
      5   Animals: Owning, keeping, possessing, or harboring any animal or
animals which, by frequent or habitual noise making, or causes a noise
disturbance. The provisions of this Section shall apply to all private and
public facilities, including any animal pounds, which hold or treat animals.
      6   Loading Operation: Loading, unloading, opening or otherwise handling
boxes, crates, containers, garbage containers or other objects between the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following
day in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance.
      7   Construction Work: Operating, or causing to be used or operated, any
equipment used in construction, repair, alteration or demolition work on
buildings, structures, streets, alleys, or appurtenances thereto in residential
or commercial land use districts between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day.
      8   Domestic Power Equipment: Operating or permitting to be operated any
power equipment rated five (5) horsepower or less used for home or building
repair or grounds maintenance, including, but not limited to power saw, sander,
lawn mower, garden equipment or snow removal equipment, in residential or
commercial zones outdoors between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day.
      9   Commercial Power Equipment: Operating or permitting to be operated,
any power equipment, except construction equipment used for construction
activities, rated more than five (5) horsepower, including, but not limited to
chain saws, pavement breakers, log chippers, powered hand tools in residential
or commercial land use districts between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day.
      10   Enclosed Places Of Public Entertainment: Operating or permitting to
be operated in any place of public entertainment any loudspeaker or other
source of sound which produces, at a point that is normally occupied by a
customer, maximum sound pressure levels of one hundred (100) dB(A) as read with
the slow response on a sound level meter, unless a conspicuous and legible sign
at least two hundred twenty five (225) square inches in area is posted near
each public entrance stating: "WARNING: SOUND LEVELS WITHIN MAY CAUSE HEARING
IMPAIRMENT".
      11   Powered Model Mechanical Devices: The flying of a model aircraft
powered by internal combustion engines, whether tethered or not, or the firing
or operating of model rocket vehicles or other similar noise producing devices,
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the
following day or in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance.
      12   Dynamic Braking Devices: (Commonly referred to as Jacobs Brake.)
Operating any motor vehicle with a dynamic braking device engaged except for
the aversion of imminent danger.
      13   Defect In Vehicle: Operating or permitting to be operated or used
any truck, automobile, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle which, by virtue of
disrepair or manner of operation, or causes a noise disturbance.
      14   Garbage Collection: The collection of garbage, waste or refuse
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and seven thirty o'clock (7:30)
A.M. the following day:
         a   In any area zoned residential, or within three hundred feet (300')
of an area zoned residential;
         b   In any land use district so as to cause a noise disturbance.
      15   Standing Motor Vehicles: The operating or causing or permitting to
be operated any motor vehicle or any auxiliary equipment attached thereto in
such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance for a consecutive period longer
than fifteen (15) minutes during which such vehicle is stationary in a
residential zone.
      16   Quiet Zones: Creating excessive noise within the vicinity of any
school, hospital, institution of learning, court, or other designated area
where exceptional quiet is necessary, while the same is in use.
      17   Fixed Sirens, Whistles And Horns: The sounding or causing the
sounding of any whistle, horn or siren as a signal for commencing or suspending
work, or for any other purpose except as a sound signal of imminent danger, in
such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance.
      18   Recreational Vehicles And Snowmobiles: Operating a recreational
vehicle or snowmobile in a manner which causes a noise disturbance. (1978 Code
§ 10-362; 1996 Code)
4-2A-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from noise level regulations:
   A   Safety Signals: Noise of safety signals, warning devices and emergency
pressure relief valves.
   B   Authorized Emergency Vehicles: Noise resulting from any authorized
emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency call or acting in time of
emergency.
   C   Emergency Work: Noise resulting from emergency work.
   D   Lawful Fireworks And Noisemakers: Noise resulting from lawful fireworks
and noisemakers used for celebration of an official holiday. (1978 Code § 10-
365; 1996 Code)
4-2A-5: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
Violations of Sections
4-2A-2 through
4-2A-4 of this Chapter are deemed and declared to be a nuisance, and as such
may be subject to summary abatement by means of a restraining order or
injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. (1978 Code § 10-369)
ARTICLE B. WEEDS
SECTION:
4-2B-1: Definition
4-2B-2: Standard Of Weed Control
4-2B-3: Penalty
4-2B-1: DEFINITION:
Weeds shall include any vegetation commonly referred to as a weed, or which
shall have been designated a noxious weed by the Utah Commissioner of
Agriculture and/or San Juan County. (1978 Code § 10-322; 1996 Code)
4-2B-2: STANDARD OF WEED CONTROL:
   A   Nuisance: Weeds constitute a nuisance when they create a fire hazard, a
source of contamination, or pollution of the water, air or property, a danger
to health, a breeding place or habitation for insects or rodents or other forms
of life deleterious to humans or are unsightly or deleterious to their
surroundings.
   B   Removal: The cut weeds shall be removed from the premises within forty
eight (48) hours after cutting. (1978 Code § 10-323; 1996 Code)
4-2B-3: PENALTY:
It shall be an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code for any person owning or occupying real property to allow
weeds to grow higher on such property than is permitted by this Chapter or not
to remove from such property any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse,
unsightly or deleterious objects after having been given notice from the Health
Director as hereinafter provided. (1978 Code § 10-321; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Licensing Requirements
4-3-3: Regulations
4-3-4: Exception
4-3-5: Seizure; Revocation
4-3-6: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
COMBINATION FIREWORKS DEVICE: Any device containing combinations of two (2) or
more of the effects described in "Ground Or Hand-Held Sparkling" or "Ground
Audible Device".
FIREWORK: Any composition or device manufactured or used for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or
detonation but does not include model rockets, toy pistol caps, emergency
signal flares, snakes or glow worms, party poppers, wire sparklers under thirty
six inches (36") in length, matches, or Class A and B explosives.
GROUND AUDIBLE DEVICE: Any paper or cardboard tube containing not more than
fifty (50) milligrams of pyrotechnic material that travels along the ground
(chaser) upon ignition and often produces a whistling and/or popping effect.
GROUND OR HAND-HELD SPARKLING: A. Any cylindrical tube (cylindrical fountain)
not exceeding three-fourths inch (3/4") in inside diameter and containing not
more than seventy five (75) grams of pyrotechnic composition which produces a
shower of color and sparks upon ignition and may whistle or pop.
   B   Any cardboard or heavy paper cone (cone fountain) containing up to fifty
(50) grams of pyrotechnic composition which produces a shower of color and
sparks upon ignition and may whistle or pop.
   C   Any cylindrical tube (illuminating torch) containing up to one hundred
(100) grams of pyrotechnic composition which produces colored fire upon
ignition.
   D   Any pyrotechnic device (wheel) capable of being attached to a post or
tree containing up to six (6) "driver" units or tubes not exceeding one-half
inch (1/2") in inside diameter that each contain not more than sixty (60) grams
of pyrotechnic composition per driver unit which revolves upon ignition
producing a shower of color and sparks and sometimes a whistling effect.
   E   Any device similar in design and effect to a "wheel" capable of being
placed on the ground (ground spinner) and ignited; and
   F   Any narrow paper fuseless tube (flitter sparkler) filled with
pyrotechnic composition that produces color and sparks when the popper at one
end of the tube is ignited.
TRICK NOISEMAKER: A. Any tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition that
upon ignition produces white or colored smoke (smoke device) as its primary
effect; and
   B   Any device that produces a small report intended to surprise the user,
including:
      1. A "booby trap" which is a small tube with a string protruding from
both ends that ignites the friction sensitive composition in the tube when the
string is pulled;
      2. A "snapper" which is a small paper-wrapped device containing a minute
quantity of explosive composition coated on bits of sand which explodes
producing a small report;
      3. A "trick match" which is a kitchen or book match coated with a small
quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition that produces a small shower
of sparks when ignited;
      4. A "cigarette load" which is a small wood peg coated with a small
quantity of explosive composition that produces a small report when the
cigarette is ignited; and
      5. An "auto burglar alarm" which is a tube which contains pyrotechnic
composition that produces a loud whistle and smoke when ignited. A small
quantity of explosive, not exceeding fifty (50) milligrams, may also be used to
produce a small report. A squib is used to ignite the device. (Ord. 85-1, 5-15-
1985)
4-3-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
No person may sell fireworks at retail in the City without first obtaining a
regular business license from the City. Persons requesting a license primarily
for the purpose of selling fireworks at retail shall, as a condition to
obtaining the license, provide evidence to the City that the person has
obtained a sales tax number from the Utah State Tax Commission and shall agree
to properly collect, report and pay sales taxes on all sales of fireworks.
(Ord. 85-1, 5-15-1985)
4-3-3: REGULATIONS:
   A   Unlawful Sales: It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for
retail sale, or to discharge any fireworks in the City other than those defined
in Section
4-3-1, as "Fireworks".
   B   Compliance With Rules: Sellers of fireworks shall comply with rules of
the State Fire Prevention Board establishing minimum safety standards,
reasonable under the circumstances, for the retail storage, retail handling,
and retail sale of common fireworks.
   C   Dates Of Sales: Fireworks may be sold on or between June 20 and July 25;
on or between December 20 and January 2; and fifteen (15) days before and on
the Chinese New Year.
   D   Dates Of Discharge: Fireworks may be discharged three (3) days prior to,
on the day of, and three (3) days following July 4, July 24, January 1, and the
Chinese New Year. (Ord. 85-1, 5-15-1985)
4-3-4: EXCEPTION:
This Chapter does not apply to the product inventories of fireworks
manufacturers, importers, distributors or wholesalers designated for shipment
directly out of the State. Nothing in this Chapter shall supersede the
provisions of section
23-13-7, Utah Code Annotated, as amended. (Ord. 85-1, 5-15-1985)
4-3-5: SEIZURE; REVOCATION:
Fireworks sold or offered for sale in violation of this Chapter may be seized
and destroyed and the license of the person selling or offering fireworks for
sale may be revoked. (Ord. 85-1, 5-15-1985)
4-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person who fails to comply with the regulations set forth in Section
4-3-3 of this Chapter is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code. (Ord. 85-1, 5-15-1985; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Collection And Pickup Of Garbage
4-4-3: Service Charges; Method Of Payment
4-4-4: Regulations
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
ASSIGNED CONTAINER: A container assigned to the owner/lessee of a property for
garbage collection by the City. This can include various sizes of dumpsters and
polycarts for both residential and commercial uses.
COMMERCIAL GARBAGE: Refers to garbage produced in commercial establishments,
public or quasi-public institutions or establishments, including restaurants,
hotels, motels and similar establishments.
COMMUNITY WASTE: Lawn cuttings, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves and
trees and tree branches.
CONSTRUCTION WASTE: Waste generated by the construction, demolition, or repair
of buildings or other structures.
CONTAINER OR REGULATION CONTAINER: A type of garbage or trash receptacle of
approved material and having a tight-fitting lid and manufactured specifically
for use in garbage and refuse collection.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, handling, storing, cooking or consumption
of food and food products.
REFUSE: All waste matter, except garbage, attending, or resulting from the
occupancy of residences, apartments, hotels, or other places of dwelling and
from the operation of a business. Refuse shall not be deemed to include
industrial waste or waste matter resulting from the construction, demolition or
repair of a building or other structure.
RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in places of private residence and dining
halls not open to the public. (1978 Code § 10-411; amd. 1996 Code; Ord. passed
11-29-2022; Ord. passed 3-26-2024)
4-4-2: COLLECTION AND PICKUP OF GARBAGE:
   A.   Collection, Removal And Disposal: The City or its agent shall collect,
remove and dispose of all residential and commercial garbage, the removal of
which is not otherwise provided for by the establishment or institution as
herein provided. All garbage and refuse shall be collected, removed and
disposed of with such frequency and in such manner as the City Council may from
time to time establish by regulation.
   B.   Moving, Hauling And Transporting: Except as otherwise expressly
permitted by this Chapter, no garbage or refuse shall be moved or hauled away
or transported upon the streets or public ways of the City except by the City
or its agent and except by authorized persons hauling commercial garbage or
refuse as hereinafter provided. It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any
person, except as permitted in this Chapter, to haul or remove garbage or
refuse in the City.
   C.   Establishments Creating Commercial Garbage: Commercial establishments,
public or quasi-public, institutions and establishments creating commercial
garbage, may remove commercial garbage themselves or may employ the services of
authorized contractors to remove commercial garbage. Authorized garbage haulers
must apply for and receive permission to do so from the Recorder/Clerk. Haulage
of refuse must be done in the manner, at such times and in such vehicles as may
be approved for such purposes as the City Council may from time to time by
regulation provide.
   D.   Persons Hauling Own Garbage: Nothing contained in this Section shall
preclude persons from hauling their own garbage, trash or community waste over
the streets and alleys of the City.
   E.   Not To Eliminate Charges For Service: Nothing in this Section shall be
construed as eliminating the charge made for garbage service.
   F.   Polycarts To Be Placed At Pickup Point: All garbage and refuse subject
to garbage collection by the City shall be placed at a pickup point designated
by the City. Polycarts shall be placed in the designated area by seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. on the designated trash collection day, with the opening of the
polycart facing the street. Polycarts and assigned containers shall be placed
at least three feet (3') from other objects.
   G.   Dumpsters To Remain At Pickup Point: All dumpsters subject to garbage
collection by the City shall remain placed in the spot designated by the City
and be accessible the entirety of the day on the designated pickup day(s).
Movement from the spot designated will result in a fifty dollars ($50.00)
location and relocation fee.
   H.   Garbage Not Set Out Prior To Collection: Garbage and refuse must not be
set out upon the street for collection prior to the evening of the day before
collection.
   I.   Removal Of Polycarts: All polycarts must be removed from the street by
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the day following their designated garbage collection
day.
   J.   Garbage Generated Outside City: It shall be unlawful for any person to
deposit garbage or refuse which has been generated outside the City limits in
any receptacle within the City of which they are not paying for the services to
dispose of the garbage. The city will assess a fine equal to a month's garbage
service to any individual(s) caught committing a theft of service.
   K.   Bagging Of Garbage: All garbage placed in a receptacle must be bagged
to help prevent scattering of litter throughout the city.
   L.   Un-Permitted Waste In Garbage Receptacles: It shall be unlawful for any
person to deposit any of the following items into any garbage receptacle
subject to collection by the City.
      1.   Construction Waste.
      2.   Large Community Waste (see Title
4-4-4 section E for permitted community waste).
      3.   Any lithium or low lead batterys (see State Code for lead batteries
UT Code 19-6).
      4.   Paint, Stains, Thinners, and other solvents.
      5.   Motor Oil and other Vehicle Fluids.
      6.   Mattresses.
      7.   Appliances.
      8.   Large Electronics.
      9.   Any object(s) that don't allow the lid of the receptacle to close.
      Any unpermitted disposal in a City Assigned Container will result in a
fine equal to the cost of disposal plus a thirty dollar ($30.00) Administrative
Fee that will be added to the offender's utility account. The city reserves the
right to refuse garbage collection on any unpermitted waste in any receptacle
subject to garbage collection. (1996 Code; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord.
passed 3-26-2024)
4-4-3: SERVICE CHARGES; METHOD OF PAYMENT:
   A.   Charges: All residents within the City shall pay for garbage service,
whether or not they have elected to haul their own garbage. Rates for garbage
collection shall be established by City Council resolution and stated in the
consolidated fee schedule.
   B.   Vacancy Of Premises: If a dwelling unit or a place of business has
remained vacant for a minimum of (30) thirty days, the owner or possessor of
the site may make arrangements with the city office for no garbage collection
charges during the continued vacancy of the premises.
   C.   Combined Billing: The garbage service charges above imposed shall be
added to the charge made for water furnished through the water system of the
City and shall be billed and collected in the same manner as water service
charges are billed and collected.
   D.   Exception To Combined Billing: In the event that the oblige for the
water service charges and the oblige for the garbage service charges do not
coincide, or in the event that practical economic and administrative reasons do
not make combined billing and collection feasible in the opinion of the City
Council, the garbage service charges may be collected with such frequency and
in such manner as the City Council shall stipulate by regulation. (1978 Code §
10-414; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed 3-26-2024)
4-4-4: REGULATIONS:
   A.   No Accumulation Of Garbage: It shall be unlawful for any person to
accumulate garbage or refuse or cause garbage or refuse to be deposited upon
any street or alley or upon any premises in the City.
   B.   Public Garbage/Refuse Containers:
      1.   Suitable Receptacles: All public garbage and refuse shall be placed
in suitable and sufficient garbage receptacles with tight-fitting lids
manufactured specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection. Garbage
must be properly transferred to a City assigned container for pickup by the
City.
   C.   Closing Of Containers Required: All garbage and market waste must be
placed in rainproof and flyproof receptacles of the type herein required, and
the receptacle shall be tightly closed in such manner as to prevent offensive
odors, flies, and access to birds and dogs who may strew garbage amongst the
street
   D.   Fines And Fees: Violating any area of this code that does not already
have a specified fine in place could result in a fine of five dollars ($5.00)
per day that the violation continues or is committed and will be added to the
monthly utility bill.
   E.   Community Waste:
      1.   Community waste consisting of lawn clippings, leaves, small branches
no longer than one foot (1') or more than six inches (6") in diameter may be
placed in city-provided receptacles if they are first bagged and the lid of the
receptacle can be fully closed.
      2.   Community waste consisting of shrubs and branches longer than one
foot (1') or greater than six inches (6") in diameter will not be collected by
the city. It is the responsibility of the property owner to dispose of such
material at a city approved dump site at their own expense.
      3.   Community waste may be disposed of by residents and business
establishments using their private vehicles. But subject to regulation by the
City Council as to the places of disposal and as to the type of vehicle used to
avoid spillage upon the public ways of the City, hazards to safety and the
prevention of nuisances.
      4.   The city council from time to time may provide for the collection
and disposal of such types of community waste as it may decide to collect and
haul in connection with its regular garbage, waste collection and disposal
service. In the event community waste disposal service should require a charge
to be made by the city, the determination of the charge will be made by
negotiation with the residents or business enterprises and the residents or
business enterprises will be given an opportunity to choose from among services
offered by persons other than the city.
      5.   Burning of Community waste allowed when doing so can be done in a
safe, contained, and controlled manner. Failure to notify non-emergency
dispatch before burning can result in a one hundred dollars ($100.00) fine if
Fire Crew is dispatched.
   F.   Burning Of Refuse Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
burn garbage, market waste, manure or other refuse in the open air or in any
furnace or stove within the city.
   G.   Dumping Refuse Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit, or dump garbage, trade waste, motor vehicle or vehicle fluids,
or any other refuse upon any lot or parcel within the city whether such lot or
parcel is occupied or vacant and whether such person so placing, depositing or
dumping such refuse is the owner, tenant, occupant or lessor thereof or has the
same under his jurisdiction and control.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to place, deposit, or dump garbage, ashes, or
any other refuse in any receptacle other than your assigned container without
consent of the assigned lessee/owner of the container.
   H.   Limitations Upon Dumping: Dumping waste shall be permitted only in such
places as are designated by the city council. Dumping shall be subject to the
standards of the Utah department of environmental quality and to such rules and
regulations as may be formulated by the city council.
   I.   Regulation By City Council: The city council may adopt such regulations
as in its opinion are necessary to implement this chapter and its objectives.
(1978 Code § 10-423; amd. Ord. 2015-2, 6-23-2015, eff. 7-3-2015; Ord. passed
11-29-2022; Ord. passed 3-26-2024)
CHAPTER 5
LITTER; HANDBILLS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Litter Regulations
4-5-3: Handbill Regulations
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter:
AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE: A public or private litter storage and collection
receptacle.
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or otherwise
reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature:
   A   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
   B   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest in sales thereof;
   C   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. However, the terms of this
clause shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is
taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided, that nothing contained
in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place
of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without
a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this State,
or under any ordinance of the City; or,
   D   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, cooking or consumption of food, condemned
food products and all refuse and waste from the handling, storage, preparation
and sale of produce. Garbage originates primarily in kitchens, stores, markets,
restaurants, hotels and other places where food is handled, stored, sold,
cooked and consumed.
LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish" as defined herein and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety, welfare or appearance of the City.
NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general or local circulation or any periodical or
current magazine regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per
year, and sold to the public.
NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample, or device,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any other
printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature
not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial handbill or
newspaper.
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, recreation center or any other public
area in the City owned or used by the City.
REFUSE: Putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, and solid
market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, wrapping, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
VEHICLE: Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported upon a highway. (1978 Code § 10-431; 1996 Code)
4-5-2: LITTER REGULATIONS:
   A   Litter In Public Places: No person shall throw or deposit litter in or
on any street, sidewalk or other public place except:
      1   In authorized receptacles for collection or in official City or
County landfills; or
      2   For collection as authorized by the City Council. (1978 Code § 10-
432; 1996 Code)
   B   Placement Of Litter In Receptacles: Persons placing litter in authorized
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk or other public place or on
private property. (1978 Code § 10-433)
   C   Sweeping Litter Into Gutters Prohibited: No person shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place the accumulation of litter
from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway,
except as authorized by the City Council. Persons owning or occupying property
shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter. (1978 Code §
10-434)
   D   Merchants' Duty To Keep Sidewalks Free Of Litter: No person owning or
occupying a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street
or other public place the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
places of business shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises
free of litter. (1978 Code § 10-435)
   E   Litter Thrown By Person In Vehicle: No person, while a driver or
passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter on any street or other
public place, or on private property. (1978 Code § 10-436)
   F   Truck Loads Causing Litter: No person shall drive or move any loaded
vehicle unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent contents
or litter from being blown or deposited on any street, alley or other public
place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck, the wheels or
tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other public
place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(1978 Code § 10-437; 1996 Code)
   G   Litter In Parks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park
except in authorized receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements on any part of the
park or on any street or other public place. Where authorized receptacles are
not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein. (1978 Code § 10-438)
   H   Litter In Lakes And Fountains: No person shall throw or deposit litter
in any fountain, pond, lake, stream or any other body of water in a park or
elsewhere within the City. (1978 Code § 10-439)
   I   Litter On Occupied Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit
litter on any occupied private property, whether owned by such person or not,
except that the owner or person in control of private property may maintain
authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on any private property. (1978 Code § 10-447)
   J   Litter On Vacant Lots: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any
open or vacant private property whether or not owned by such person. (1978 Code
§ 10-448)
4-5-3: HANDBILL REGULATIONS:
   A   Throwing Or Distributing Commercial Handbills In Public Places; Penalty:
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
on any sidewalk, street or other public place within the City. Unless otherwise
authorized by the City Council, it is an infraction and subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code for any person to hand out, distribute or sell any
commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, that it shall not
be unlawful on any sidewalk, street, or other public place for any person to
hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it. (1978 Code § 10-440;
1996 Code)
   B   Placing Commercial And Noncommercial Handbills On Vehicles: Unless
otherwise authorized by the City Council, no person shall throw or deposit any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any vehicle; provided, however,
that it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or
distribute without charge to the receiver thereof a noncommercial handbill to
any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it. (1978 Code § 10-441)
   C   Depositing Commercial And Noncommercial Handbills On Uninhabited Or
Vacant Premises: No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or on any private premises which are temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant. (1978 Code § 10-442)
   D   Prohibiting Distribution Where Properly Posted: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill on any private
premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so or if there is placed on
said premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign being
the words "No Trespassing", "No Peddlers or Agents", "No Advertisements", or
any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of the premises
do not desire to have their right of privacy disturbed or to have any such
handbills left on such premises. (1978 Code § 10-443; 1996 Code)
   E   Distributing Commercial And Noncommercial Handbills At Inhabited Private
Premises: No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or on private premises which are inhabited, except by
handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or
other person then present in or on such private premises. However, in case of
inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided in this Section,
such person, unless requested by anyone on such premises not to do so, may
place or deposit any such handbill in or on such inhabited private premises if
such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill
from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other
public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used when prohibited by
Federal postal law or regulations. (1978 Code § 10-444)
   F   Exception For Mail And Newspapers: The provisions of this Chapter shall
not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers
except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner so
as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on private property. (1978 Code § 10-445)
   G   Posting Notice Prohibited: No person shall post or affix any notice,
poster or other paper or device, calculated to attract the attention of the
public, to any lamp post, public utility pole or shade tree, or on any public
structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law. (1978
Code § 10-446)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Board Of Health
4-6-2: Health Director
4-6-3: Permit Required
4-6-4: Unwholesome Food
4-6-5: Removal Of Garbage
4-6-6: Discharge Of Sewage Pollution
4-6-7: Inadequate Plumbing
4-6-8: Burials And Disinterment
4-6-1: BOARD OF HEALTH:
   A   Established: The Southeastern Utah District Health Department is hereby
designated as the Board of Health of the City. (1978 Code § 10-211)
   B   Powers And Duties:
      1   Contract With Southeastern Utah District Health Department: The City
may contract with the Southeastern Utah District Health Department on such
terms and conditions as the parties may agree to enforce the provisions of this
Chapter and such other ordinances of the City which authorize or require action
or impose any duty on the Board of Health.
      2   Adopt Rules And Regulations: The Board of Health shall adopt such
rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary to govern its meetings and
conduct.
      3   Review Of Applications: The Board of Health may review and approve
all applications for licenses to operate any business or engage in any
construction for which a permit is required from the Board of Health pursuant
to any ordinances or regulations of the City.
      4   Recommend Rules And Regulations: The Board of Health shall recommend
to the Mayor for promulgation by the City Council such health rules,
regulations and ordinances as it deems necessary for the health of the persons
within the City. (1978 Code § 10-212; 1996 Code)
4-6-2: HEALTH DIRECTOR:
   A   Position Created: The Health Director of the Southeastern Utah District
Health Department is hereby designated as the Health Director of the City.
(1978 Code § 10-221)
   B   Powers And Duties:
      1   Appoint Or Designate Inspector: The Health Director may appoint or
designate any qualified person to act as Health Inspector for the purpose of
enforcing the ordinances of the City.
      2   Enforce Terms And Conditions Of Contract: Subject to the terms and
conditions of the contract between the Southeastern Utah District Health
Department, the Health Inspector shall:
         a   Enforce all ordinances of the City and the State which relate to
the health and welfare of the residents of the City.
         b   Enforce all rules, regulations and ordinances relating to:
            (1)   Plumbing, sanitation, contagious infectious diseases,
quarantine and sewage disposal.
            (2)   Producing, storing, keeping and selling meat, dairy or other
foods or food products.
            (3)   The quarantine and disposal of all animals affected with any
contagious or infectious diseases.
            (4)   The power to impose and maintain a strict quarantine of all
infected persons and premises having contagious or infectious diseases, and to
require such persons or premises to be disinfected.
            (5)   The right and authority, when he shall deem necessary to
secure or preserve the public health, to enter into or upon any premises,
building, or other places during the daytime to examine, analyze, or test any
building, structure, premises, product or good manufactured, stored, or kept
within the City for the purposes of enforcing this Chapter. (1978 Code § 10-
222; 1996 Code)
4-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the following
businesses or activities without first obtaining a permit from the Board of
Health.
   A   Food Or Food Products For Human Consumption: Handling, selling, offering
for sale, preparing or serving any food or food products or beverages or water
intended for human consumption.
   B   Public Swimming Pool: Operating or permitting public access to any
public swimming pool.
   C   Fumigation Of Pests: Fumigating or eradicating pests, insects, vermin or
any other infestation from any building occupied or to be occupied by humans.
(1978 Code § 10-213; 1996 Code)
   D   Human Waste Disposal: Cleaning or installing any septic tank, portable
toilets, or self-contained human waste disposal facility. (1996 Code)
4-6-4: UNWHOLESOME FOOD:
It is a Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code for any person to sell or offer for sale any unwholesome
food or beverage which has been condemned by any government food inspector.
(1978 Code § 10-223; 1996 Code)
4-6-5: REMOVAL OF GARBAGE:
   A   Vacating Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person, upon vacating or
moving from any dwelling, storeroom, or other building, to fail to remove all
garbage, rubbish, or ashes from such building or premises and the grounds
appurtenant thereto, or to fail to place the same in a thoroughly sanitary
condition within twenty four (24) hours after the premises are vacated.
   B   Rental Property: In situations where rental property is so vacated, the
owner of the property shall be concurrently responsible with the tenant thereof
for compliance with this Section. (1978 Code § 10-224)
4-6-6: DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE POLLUTION:
   A   Conform To Standards: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
or permit the discharge of any sewage or filth from any premises into and upon
any public highway, stream, water course, or public place, or into any drain,
or private wastewater disposal system which does not conform to standards
established by the State Division of Health or by the City.
   B   Connection To Public Sewer System: The Health Inspector may order a
connection for sewage disposal to be made with the public sewer system provided
by the City if such is available; provided, that the public sewer system is
within three hundred feet (300') of the premises.
   C   Prevention: The Health Inspector shall use all due measures to prevent
the fouling of any streams, water courses, reservoirs, or any source furnishing
water to any of the inhabitants of the City. (1978 Code § 10-225; 1996 Code)
4-6-7: INADEQUATE PLUMBING:
The Health Inspector shall have power to require the prompt repair of all leaks
or other defects in plumbing throughout the City. He shall have power to
condemn and abate all plumbing which is deficient under the plumbing
ordinances. When, in the opinion of the Health Inspector, a change in
occupants, type of business or other cause requires changes in plumbing, he
shall have the power to compel the installation of an increased number of
plumbing fixtures and a change in their type or capacity, and to make such
other alterations or increases as may be necessary for the health and safety of
the occupants of the building and of the public generally. (1978 Code § 10-226;
1996 Code)
4-6-8: BURIALS AND DISINTERMENT:
   A   It is an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code for any person to:
      1   Disinter any body buried in any cemetery, except under the direction
of the Cemetery Superintendent who shall, before disinterment, require a
written permission from both the City Health Inspector and heirs of the
deceased, which written authorization shall be filed and preserved in a record
kept for such purposes.
      2   Disinter or remove the body of a person who has died from a
contagious disease within two (2) years after the date of burial, unless the
body was buried in a hermetically sealed casket or vault and is found to be so
incased at the time of disinterment with permission of the Health Inspector and
heirs of the deceased.
   B   It is an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code to inter anything other than the remains of human bodies in
cemeteries.
   C   It is an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code to bury the body of any person within the City except in the
City cemetery or a private cemetery, unless by special permission of the City
Council under such rules and regulations that it may prescribe. (1978 Code §
10-227; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 7
OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definition
4-7-2: Business License Required
4-7-3: Application For Business License
4-7-4: Issuance Of Business License
4-7-5: Control Of Animal And Fowl Facilities
4-7-6: Existing Businesses And Facilities
4-7-1: DEFINITION:
Offensive businesses, within the meaning of this Chapter, shall include but not
be limited to, packing houses, dairies, tanneries, canneries, renderies, junk
or salvage yards, bone factories, slaughter houses, butcher shops, soap
factories, foundries, breweries, distilleries, livery stables, blacksmith
shops, or any other enterprise or establishment which creates excessive odors,
fumes, smoke, gases, or noises. (1978 Code § 10-241B)
4-7-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall commence or change the location of an offensive business or
establishment in or within one mile of the limits of the City without first
filing an application for a business license to do so with the Recorder/Clerk.
(1978 Code § 10-241A; 1996 Code)
4-7-3: APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE:
The application for a business license shall specify the location at which the
business or establishment is to be operated and maintained or the new location
to which it is to be moved. The application shall describe the type of activity
which will be conducted and describe the manner in which the business or
establishment shall eliminate, control, or modify the emission by the business
of the undesirable odors, fumes, noises, and other offensive features and the
manner in which it shall be screened from public view. (1978 Code § 10-241C;
1996 Code)
4-7-4: ISSUANCE OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
   A   Report And Recommendation: The Recorder/Clerk shall cause a study to be
made of the proposed business or relocation of any offensive business or
establishment by the Board of Health and by personnel engaged in the inspection
of buildings and other facilities. A report and recommendation shall be made to
the Governing Body. The City Council, after review, may grant to the applicant
an opportunity to be heard and present additional facts. Thereafter the City
Council may:
      1   Deny the application.
      2   Recommend a modification thereof.
      3   Grant a limited license to enter into the business or make the change
of location subject to the requirement that the business or facility conform to
standards established by the Governing Body with reference to controlling the
offensive features of the business.
   B   Revocation Of License: In the event a license is granted, it shall be
subject to revocation either upon failure of the operator or owner to conduct
his business in the manner specified by the City Council at the time of the
granting of the license, or because a change of circumstances makes the
continued operation or maintenance of the business or facility a public
nuisance.
   C   Modification Of License: The City Council shall have power to revoke or
modify the permission to operate and maintain the business in such a manner as
it deems necessary for the public good. (1978 Code § 10-242; 1996 Code)
4-7-5: CONTROL OF ANIMAL AND FOWL FACILITIES:
   A   Location And Management: The City Council shall have the power to
prohibit or control the location and management of any offensive, unwholesome
business or establishment in or within one mile of the City and may compel the
owner of any pigsty, barn corral, fur-bearing animal farm, feed yard, poultry
farm, or other unwholesome or nauseous house or place to cleanse, abate or
remove the same.
   B   Examination Of Operation: The City Council may, on its own initiative
and shall, on complaint of a member of the public, examine the operation,
control or location of any business or facility for the purpose of determining
whether or not the operation of such business or facility should be improved so
as to minimize the offensive and unwholesome characteristics or whether the
business or activity should be moved or abated.
   C   Notification Of Abatement: In the event that the City Council decides
that the business or facility should be abated, removed, or controlled, it
shall notify the owner or operator of the business or facility of such fact.
   D   Hearing; Limited License: After a hearing, the City Council may issue a
limited license wherein it may prescribe the specifications and standard which
must be followed by the business or facility in order to be permitted to
continue in operation.
   E   Abatement Or Removal: Upon a determination by the City Council that the
business or facility is a nuisance, it shall have power to order the abatement
or removal of the facility or establishment. If the owner fails to conform to
such order, the City Council shall have power to bring all necessary legal
proceedings to force removal, abatement, or adherence to standards. (1978 Code
§ 10-244)
4-7-6: EXISTING BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES:
   A   Investigation By City Council: The City Council may require an
investigation of any existing offensive business or facility to determine
whether or not it should be permitted to remain in existence in or within one
mile of the City limits. If the City Council determines that the continuation
of the business or facility has become a nuisance to persons situated within
the City limits or that ample control is not being exercised to minimize the
creation of excessive odors, fumes, smoke, gases, and noise, it shall notify
the owner or operator thereof that the City Council is considering revoking or
modifying the operator's license.
   B   Conform To Standards And Specifications: If the City Council decides to
require a modification of the manner in which the business or facility is to be
maintained, it shall specify the standards or specifications to which the
enterprise must conform or otherwise lose its license to engage thereafter in
the business or activity. (1978 Code § 10-243)
CHAPTER 8
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definitions
4-8-2: Creation And Establishment Of City Tree Board
4-8-3: List Of Suitable Trees
4-8-4: Planting Regulations
4-8-5: Maintenance And Care
4-8-6: Right Of City On Private Property
4-8-7: Street And Park Trees
4-8-8: Interference With City Tree Board
4-8-9: Appeal To Governing Body
4-8-10: Penalty
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
PARK TREES: Park trees are herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes and all
other woody vegetation in parks owned by the City and all public areas owned by
the City.
STREET TREES: Street trees are herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes, and all
other woody vegetation on property or right of ways owned by the City, or other
government entities, lying between property lines on either side of all
streets, avenues, or ways within the City. (Ord. 93-1, 6-23-1993; 1996 Code)
4-8-2: CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY TREE BOARD:
   A   Members: There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for
the City, which shall consist of five (5) members, citizens and residents of
the City, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council.
   B   Term Of Office: The term of the five (5) persons to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be three (3) years, except that the term of two (2) of the members
appointed to the first City Tree Board shall be for only one year and the term
of two (2) members of the first City Tree Board shall be for two (2) years. In
the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his
successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   C   Compensation: Members of the City Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
   D   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1   It shall be the responsibility of the City Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel, develop and update annually, a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of street
trees and park trees. Such plan will be presented annually to the Governing
Body and upon their acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official
Comprehensive City Tree Plan for the City.
      2   The City Tree Board, when requested by the Governing Body, shall
consider, investigate, make findings, report and make recommendations on any
special matter or question within the scope of its work.
   E   Operations: The City Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its
own rules and regulations in accordance and in compliance with applicable law,
and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a
quorum for the transaction of business.
   F   Review Of Board By Governing Body: The Governing Body shall have the
right to review the conduct, acts and decisions of the City Tree Board. (Ord.
93-1, 6-23-1993; 1996 Code)
4-8-3: LIST OF SUITABLE TREES:
The City Tree Board shall develop and maintain a list of desirable trees for
planting along streets in three size classes based on mature height: small
(under 20 feet), medium (20 to 40 feet) and large (over 40 feet). Lists of
trees not suitable for planting will also be created by the City Tree Board.
(Ord. 93-1, 6-23-1993)
4-8-4: PLANTING REGULATIONS:
   A   Spacing: The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the tree
species size classes listed in Section
4-8-3 of this Chapter, and no trees may be planted closer together than the
following: small trees, thirty feet (30'); medium trees, forty feet (40'); and
large trees, fifty feet (50'); except in special plantings designed or approved
by a landscape architect.
   B   Distance From Curb And Sidewalk: The distance trees may be planted from
curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three (3)
species size classes listed in Section
4-8-3 of this Chapter, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or
sidewalk than the following: small trees, one foot (1'); medium trees, three
feet (3'); and large trees, four feet (4').
   C   Distance From Street Corners And Fireplugs: No street tree or park tree
shall be planted within thirty five feet (35') of any street corner, measured
from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street tree or
park tree shall be planted within ten feet (10') of any fireplug.
   D   Utilities: No street tree or park tree, other than those species listed
as small trees in Section
4-8-3 of this Chapter may be planted under or within ten feet (10') of any
overhead utility wire. (Ord. 93-1, 6-23-1993)
4-8-5: MAINTENANCE AND CARE:
   A   Ensure Safety; Preserve Beauty: The City shall have the right to plant,
prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all
streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be
necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and
beauty of such public grounds.
   B   Removal: The City Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed,
any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of
its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water
lines, or other public improvements or is affected with any injurious fungus,
insect, or other pest. This subsection does not prohibit the planting of street
trees by adjacent property owners; providing, that the selection and location
of said trees is in accordance with Sections
4-8-3 and
4-8-1 of this Chapter. (Ord. 93-1, 6-23-1993)
4-8-6: RIGHT OF CITY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A   Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal: The City Tree Board shall have the right
to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private property within
the City, when such trees constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor
insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to other trees within
the City. The City Tree Board will notify in writing the owners of such trees.
Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense within sixty (60)
days after the date of service of notice. In the event of failure of owners to
comply with such provisions, the City shall have the authority to remove such
trees and charge the cost of removal to the owner.
   B   Pruning: Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right of way
within the City shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not
obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of thirteen feet (13')
above street surface or eight feet (8') above the sidewalk surface. Said owners
shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs
which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The City shall have the
right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with
the proper spread of light along the street from a street light, or interferes
with visibility of any traffic control device or sign or sight triangle at
intersections, at the owner's expense. Tree limbs that grow near high voltage
electrical conductors shall be maintained clear of such conductors by the
electric utility company in compliance with any applicable franchise
agreements. (Ord. 93-1, 6-23-1993; 1996 Code)
4-8-7: STREET AND PARK TREES:
   A   Business License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person or firm
to engage in the business or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing
street or park trees within the City without first applying for and procuring a
business license. Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall
first file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts
of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for bodily injury and one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) property damage.
   B   Topping: It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm,
or City department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public
property. "Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs
larger than three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such a
degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be
exempted from this Chapter at the determination of the City Tree Board.
   C   Removal Of Stumps: All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed
below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project
above the surface of the ground. (Ord. 93-1, 6-23-1993; 1996 Code)
4-8-8: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD:
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street
trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this Chapter.
(Ord. 93-1, 6-23-1993)
4-8-9: APPEAL TO GOVERNING BODY:
Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the City Tree Board to the
Governing Body, who may hear the matter and make final decisions. (Ord. 93-1,
6-23-1993; 1996 Code)
4-8-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be, upon conviction
thereof, guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-6 of this Code. (Ord. 93-1, 6-23-1993; 1996 Code)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Established
5-1-2: Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Powers And Duties
5-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a regularly constituted police force to be known as
the Police Department, which shall consist of a Chief of Police and such other
police officers as shall be employed by the City. (1978 Code § 13-111)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A   Responsible For Department: He shall organize, supervise, and be
responsible for all the activities of the Police Department and shall define
and assign the duties of the different police officers. (1978 Code § 13-112B)
   B   Attend City Council Meetings: He shall, when required, attend meetings
of the City Council to consult with and advise them on matters of public
safety. He shall execute all lawful orders of the Mayor and City Council and
see that all orders and judgments of the justice of the peace are carried into
effect. (1978 Code § 13-112C)
5-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the Chief of Police and all police officers of the
City shall be as set forth in sections 10-3-913 and 10-3-914 of the Utah Code
Annotated. (1978 Code § 13-113; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Animal Control Officer
5-2-3: Dog Pound
5-2-4: Licensing Requirements
5-2-5: Cruelty To Animals Prohibited
5-2-6: Dangerous Or Vicious Animals
5-2-7: Control Of Rabies And Rabid Animals
5-2-8: Animals At Large
5-2-9: Dogs At Large; Penalty For Violation
5-2-10: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-2-11: Impounding
5-2-12: Estrays
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
words shall mean:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The custodian selected by the City Council to be
responsible for the operation of the dog pound.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the owner
or a member of his immediate family either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
DOG: Any canis familiaris over four (4) months of age. Any canis familiaris
under four (4) months of age is a puppy.
ESTRAY: Any valuable animal, except dogs or cats, not wild, found wandering
from its owner.
IMPOUNDED: Having been received into the custody of the City pound or into the
custody of any authorized agent or representative of the City.
KENNEL: An establishment having four (4) or more dogs for the purpose of
keeping as pets, boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for
fee, or selling. Allowed only in appropriate zone.
OWNER: When applied to the proprietorship of a dog, shall mean any person or
persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or harboring a dog.
POUND: An animal shelter, lot, premises, or buildings maintained by or
authorized or employed by the City for the confinement or care of dogs seized
either under the provision of this Chapter or otherwise.
STRAY: Any animal "at large", as defined herein.
UNLICENSED DOG: A dog for which the license for the current year has not been
paid, or to which the tag provided for in this Chapter is not attached.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog that has bitten a person without provocation or a dog that
has a known propensity to attack or bite human beings. (1978 Code §§ 13-241,
13-261; 1996 Code)
5-2-2: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A   Appointment: Until such time as an Animal Control Officer is appointed,
the Chief of Police, or his designee, shall be the acting Animal Control
Officer. (1978 Code § 13-211; 1996 Code)
   B   Duties: The Animal Control Officer shall perform the following duties:
      1   Carry out and enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
      2   Take into his possession and impound all strays running at large and
dispose of the same as hereinafter provided.
      3   Enforce the licensing of and control all dogs within the city as
hereinafter provided.
      4   File complaints in the courts against any person failing to comply
with the provisions of this chapter and obtain licenses when required
thereunder.
      5   Capture and secure all dogs found running at large contrary to the
provisions of this chapter and impound such dogs in a humane manner.
      6   Provide for a good and sufficient pound in which all animals duly
committed to his charge or otherwise impounded by him shall be maintained.
      7   Enter a description thereof in records kept for that purpose stating
the kind of animal, the circumstance under which received or impounded, and a
description thereof sufficient to provide identification, the costs expended
for the maintenance of the animal and amounts received arising out of
maintenance or sale of animals. (1978 Code § 13-212)
   C   Shall Charge Fees For Services: The animal control officer shall charge,
and the owners of animals taken into his possession for impound disposal or
other services shall pay, such fees and charges for services performed by the
pound or animal control officer as the city council shall establish from time
to time by resolution. All fees received by the animal control officer shall be
paid over to the city. (1978 Code § 13-214; amd. 1996 Code)
   D   Interference With Animal Control Officer Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any person to interfere, molest, hinder or obstruct the animal
control officer or any of his authorized representatives in the discharge of
their duties as herein prescribed. (1978 Code § 13-213)
5-2-3: DOG POUND:
The governing body may contract with an adjoining municipality or with the
county for the purpose of providing suitable premises and facilities to be used
by the city as the dog pound. It shall be maintained in some convenient
location and shall be sanitary and so operated as to properly feed, water and
protect the dogs from injury. (1978 Code § 13-251; amd. 1996 Code)
5-2-4: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A   Licensure And Registration: It is unlawful for any person to keep,
harbor, or maintain any dog over the age of four (4) months unless such dog has
been registered and licensed in the manner herein provided.
      1   Application:
         a   Application for registration and licensing shall be made to the
city. The owner shall state at the time of application his name and address,
and the name, sex, breed, and color of each dog owned or kept by him. The owner
shall provide proof of the animal's current rabies vaccination and of its
reproductive status at time of application.
         b   The owner of any newly acquired dog over four (4) months of age
shall make an application for registration and license within thirty (30) days
after such acquisition, or when the dog attains the above stated age. (1996
Code)
      2   Annual Renewal: Licenses are to be renewed upon the billing cycle
which follows the expiration of the animal's vaccinations. (Ord. 2016-3, 5-10-
2016, eff. 5-10-2016)
      3   Issuance Of Tag: Upon payment of the license fee, the city shall
issue to the owner a license receipt and a numbered metallic tag for each dog
so licensed. The tag shall be issued on a onetime basis and the number recorded
for purposes of animal identification. The owner shall provide each dog with a
collar to which the license tag shall be affixed and shall assure that the
collar and tag are constantly worn. It shall be unlawful to deprive a
registered dog of its collar and/or tag.
      4   Duplicate Tag: In the event a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a
duplicate tag will be issued by the city upon presentation of a receipt,
showing the payment of the license fee for the current year, and payment of the
replacement fee.
      5   Tag Not Transferable: Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog
to another.
   B   Kennel Regulations: Anyone owning, keeping, harboring or maintaining
four (4) or more dogs over the age of four (4) months, for whatever purpose,
shall be considered operating a dog kennel, and the following regulations will
apply:
      1   Kennels shall be permitted only in Agricultural (A-1) Zone.
      2   Each dog kept in the kennel shall have a seventy two (72) square foot
area dog run.
      3   No dogs are to be housed together.
      4   Each dog run must have a shelter to protect the animal from the
elements.
      5   The kennel shall be at least ten feet (10') from the property line.
      6   Inspection and approval by the Animal Control Officer shall be
required before a kennel license will be issued.
   C   License Fees:
      1   Fees: All fees for dog licensure are payable to the City prior to
issuance of a license. Fees shall be based on the reproductive status of the
animal.
      2   Kennel Fees: Anyone operating a dog kennel shall be required to pay
an annual kennel license fee, which shall be in addition to fees established
for licensing of dogs.
      3   Established: All fees shall be established by resolution of the City
Council.
      4   Refunds: Refunds shall not be made on any dog license fee because of
the death of the animal, or because the owner is leaving the City before
expiration of the license period.
   D   Licensing Exemptions:
      1   Temporary Residents: The provisions of this Section shall not be
intended to apply to dogs whose owners are non- residents temporarily within
the City, nor to dogs brought to the City for the purpose of participating in
any dog show or to board in any kennel.
      2   Guide Dogs: Dogs used as guides for blind persons, commonly known as
seeing eye dogs, shall be licensed and registered as other dogs hereinabove
provided; except that the owner or keeper of such dog shall not be required to
pay any fee therefor. (1996 Code)
5-2-5: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A   Treat In Cruel And Inhumane Manner: Wilfully or maliciously kill, main,
disfigure, burn or scald, overdrive, overload, overwork, torture, cruelly beat,
mutilate, or carry or transport in any vehicle or other conveyance in a cruel
and inhuman manner, any animal or cause any of these acts to be done. (1978
Code § 13-231A; 1996 Code)
   B   Abandon: Abandon or turn out at large any animal, but such animal shall,
when rendered useless by reason of sickness or other disability, be killed by
the owner thereof and its carcass disposed of in such manner as to create no
nuisance or hazard to health. (1978 Code § 13-222; 1996 Code)
   C   Poison: To administer poison to any animal or to expose any poisonous
substance with the intent that it shall be taken by any such animal to cause
harm or death. This provision shall not be interpreted so as to prohibit the
use of poisonous substances for the control of vermin when applied in such a
manner as to reasonably prohibit access to other animals. (1978 Code § 13-224;
1996 Code)
   D   Fail To Provide Care: Fail to provide any animal in his charge or
custody with necessary sustenance, drink and protection from the elements, or
cause any of these acts to be done. (1978 Code § 13-231B)
   E   Intentionally Exhibit: Intentionally exhibit any stud, horse or bull or
other animal indecently, or let any male animal to any female animal for the
purpose of providing entertainment or viewing to any person. (1978 Code § 13-
231D)
   F   Maintain Place Of Exhibition: Maintain any place where fowls or any
animals are suffered to fight upon exhibition or for sport upon any wager.
(1978 Code § 13-231C)
5-2-6: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A   Dogs Attacking Persons And Animals:
      1   Allowing Dog To Attack: It shall be unlawful for the owner or person
having charge, care, custody or control of any dog to allow such dog to attack,
chase or worry any person, any domestic animal having a commercial value, or
any species of hoofed protected wildlife, or to attack domestic fowl. "Worry",
as used in this Section, shall mean to harass by tearing, biting or shaking
with the teeth.
      2   Owner Liability: The owner in violation of subsection A1 above shall
be strictly liable for violation of this Section. The owner of such dog shall
also be liable for damages to any person injured or to the owner of any animal
injured or destroyed thereby.
      3   Defenses: The following shall be considered in mitigating the
penalties or damages or in dismissing the charge:
         a   That the dog was properly confined on the premises.
         b   That the dog was deliberately or maliciously provoked.
      4   Dogs May Be Killed: Any person may kill a dog while it is committing
any of the acts specified in subsection A1 above or while such dog is being
pursed thereafter.
   B   Fierce, Dangerous Or Vicious Animals: It shall be unlawful for any
person to own any fierce, dangerous or vicious animal. (1996 Code)
5-2-7: CONTROL OF RABIES AND RABID ANIMALS:
   A   Rabies Vaccination Required: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dog to suffer, allow, or permit such dog to be or go upon any sidewalk, street,
alley, public place, or square within the City without first having had such
dog vaccinated every three (3) years against rabies as provided in subsection
5-2-7B below within the past three (3) years, and without there being on such
dog a collar or harness with a license tag thereon showing that such dog has
been so vaccinated. Exception: Puppy vaccinations for rabies are good for only
one year. (1978 Code § 13-248; 1996 Code)
   B   Vaccination By Licensed Veterinarian; Exception: Every owner of any dog
over the age of six (6) months within the City shall have the dog vaccinated
against rabies by a duly licensed veterinarian, shall secure from the
veterinarian a certificate thereof, and shall attach to the collar or harness,
which such person is hereby required to place upon the dog, a tag showing that
such vaccination has been done; provided, that the City Council may, by
resolution, provide that the owners of any dog may themselves purchase serum
and vaccinate their own dogs. The resolution shall also prescribe the
conditions with which the owner must comply to obtain the tag herein required.
(1978 Code § 13-247)
   C   Reporting Of Rabid Animals: Anyone having knowledge of the whereabouts
of an animal known to have or suspected of having rabies shall report the fact
immediately to the Animal Control Officer. (1978 Code § 13-228; 1996 Code)
   D   Biting Animal Quarantined: Any dog or other animal of a species subject
to rabies which is known to have bitten or injured any person so as to cause an
abrasion of the skin shall be placed in confinement under observation of a
veterinary hospital or the City pound and shall not be killed or released until
at least fourteen (14) days after the biting or injury has occurred in order to
determine whether or not the animal has rabies. If the animal dies or has been
killed, its head shall be removed and immediately taken to the State Health
Laboratory to be examined for rabies. (1978 Code § 13-229)
   E   Bitten Animal Quarantined: Any animal of a species subject to rabies
which has been bitten by a known rabid animal or has been in intimate contact
with a rabid animal shall be isolated in a suitable place approved by the
Animal Control Officer for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days or
destroyed. (1978 Code § 13-230)
   F   Knowledge Of Bite: Any person having knowledge of any individual or
animal having been bitten by an animal of a species subject to rabies shall
report the incident immediately to the Animal Control Officer. (1996 Code)
5-2-8: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
No cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, llamas, or swine shall be allowed to
run at large or to be picketed or staked out upon any street, sidewalk, or
other public place within the limits of the City, and all such animals so found
may be impounded. (1978 Code § 13-221; 1996 Code)
5-2-9: DOGS AT LARGE; PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   A   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful:
      1   For the owner or keeper of any dog to permit such dog to run at
large.
      2   For an owner of a dog to permit such dog to go upon or be upon the
private property of any person without the permission of the owner or person
entitled to the possession of such private property.
   B   Violation Regardless Of Precautions: The owner of any dog running at
large shall be deemed in violation of this Section, regardless of the
precautions taken to prevent the escape of the dog and to prohibit it from
running at large.
   C   Declared Nuisance: Any dog running at large in violation of the
provisions of this Section is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a menace to
the public health and safety, and the dog shall be taken up and impounded as
provided in this Chapter. (1978 Code § 13-244)
   D   Guilty Of Infraction: Any person violating this Section shall be guilty
of an infraction, and subject to penalty as provided on Section
1-4-6 of this Code. (Ord. 84-1, 1-4-1984; 1996 Code)
   E   Retrieval Of Dog: Prior to retrieving the dog, the owner will also be
required to furnish evidence that the dog is licensed and is current on rabies
immunizations, in accordance with Sections
5-2-4 and
5-2-7 of this Chapter. If the dog does not have a license, or is not properly
immunized, a citation will be issued. The owner will then have up to fourteen
(14) days to obtain a license and/or have the dog immunized. If the deadline is
met, the citation will be dismissed. All impound charges will remain
applicable. (Res. 94-3, 7-6-1994)
5-2-10: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A   Disposition Of Dead Animals; Violation: The owner of any animal that has
died or been killed shall remove or bury the carcass of such animal within ten
(10) hours after its death. No horse, cow, or other hoofed animal shall be
buried within the City. A violation of this section is a Class C misdemeanor
and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code. (1978 Code § 13-225; 1996 Code)
   B   Diseased Animals: It is a Class C misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code for any person to bring into the City for sale or have in
his possession with intent to sell or offer for sale, any animal which has a
communicable disease or which has been exposed to or which is liable to carry
infection from a communicable disease. (1978 Code § 13-226; 1996 Code)
   C   Diseased Animals For Human Consumption: It is a Class C misdemeanor and
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code for any person to bring into the City for sale or to sell,
or offer for sale any cattle, sheep, swine, fish, game, fowl, or poultry which
is diseased, unsound, and unwholesome or which for any other reason is unfit
for human food. (1978 Code § 13-227; 1996 Code)
   D   Female Dogs In Heat: The owner of a female dog in heat shall cause such
dog to be penned or enclosed in such a manner as to preclude other dogs from
attacking such female dog or being attracted to such female dog so as to create
a public nuisance. (1978 Code § 13-245)
   E   Unlawful To Harbor Stray Dogs: It shall be unlawful for any person to
harbor or keep within the City any lost or stray dog. Whenever any dog shall be
found which appears to be lost or stray, it shall be the duty of the finder to
notify the Animal Control Officer, who shall impound for running at large
contrary to the terms of this Chapter. If there shall be attached to such dog a
license tag, the Animal Control Officer shall notify the person to whom such
license was issued, at the address given on the license. (1978 Code § 13-246;
1996 Code)
   F   Loud Or Offensive Animals; Penalty: No person shall own, keep, or harbor
any dog which by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, yelping, or by
noxious or offensive odors shall annoy, disturb, or endanger the health and
welfare of any person or neighborhood. A violation of this subsection shall be
a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code, and such is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and each day
a violation is permitted to exist or continue shall constitute a separate
offense. This subsection shall not apply to the City dog pound, veterinary
hospitals, or medical laboratories. (1978 Code § 13-249; 1996 Code)
   G   Trespassing Animals: It shall be unlawful for any owner or caretaker of
any domestic fowl or animal to permit such fowl or animal to trespass upon the
premises of another person. (1978 Code § 13-223)
5-2-11: IMPOUNDING:
   A   Duty Of Official To Impound: It shall be the duty of every police
officer or other designated official to apprehend any dog found running at
large, not wearing his tag, or which is in violation of this Chapter and to
impound such dog in the pound or other suitable place. The Animal Control
Officer, or some other designated official, upon receiving any dog, shall make
a complete registry, entering the breed, color and mix of such dog and whether
licensed. If licensed, he shall enter the name and address of the owner and
number of the license. (1978 Code § 13-252)
   B   Interference With Impounding Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to hinder, delay, interfere with, or obstruct the Animal Control Officer
or any of his assistants while engaging in capturing, securing, or taking to
the dog pound any dog or dogs liable to be impounded, or to break open or in
any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open of
any dog pound or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs to
the dog pound. (1978 Code § 13-256; 1996 Code)
   C   Records Maintained By Animal Control Officer: The Animal Control Officer
shall keep a record of each animal impounded by him, the date of receipt of
such animal, the date and manner of its disposal and if redeemed, reclaimed, or
sold, the name of the person by whom redeemed, reclaimed, or purchased, the
address of such person, the amounts of all fees received or collected for or
because of the impounding, reclaiming or purchasing thereof, together with the
number of any tag and the date of any tag exhibited or issued upon the
redemption or sale of such animal. (1978 Code § 13-253)
   D   Redemption of Impounded Dogs:
      1.   Any dog impounded as a licensed or unlicensed dog may be redeemed
and taken from the pound by the owner or any authorized person, upon exhibiting
to the Animal Control Officer or person having charge of said pound, a receipt
showing that the license imposed by this Chapter has been paid for such dog and
upon paying the person in charge of the pound the impounding fee, in addition
to a fee for each and every day such dog shall have been impounded; provided,
however, that the dog shall remain impounded until the charge against the owner
of said dog for violation of Section
5-2-9 has been disposed of and the fine, if any, has been paid.
      2.   If a dog that has been running at large has no apparent owner or has
not been claimed within five (5) days of its impoundment, it may be disposed of
or destroyed in a humane manner.
      3.   If an impounded animal is wearing a license tag issued by Monticello
City or there is other means to identify the owner, the animal control officer
shall notify any registered owner of by regular mail or by such other means
reasonably calculated to convey notice to the owner, that said animal is being
held by the department. Said notice shall be mailed to the address given at the
time the license was purchased and no such animal shall be disposed of until at
least five (5) days from the date of notice to the owner. It shall be the duty
of the owner to retrieve the dog within five (5) days of the notice or the dog
will be deemed "unclaimed" and subject to the provision below.
   E.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Or Infected Dogs: All impounded dogs not
redeemed within five (5) days of the date of impounding may be destroyed or
sold to the person first making written request for purchase at such price as
may be deemed agreeable. In the case of dogs severely injured or having
contagious disease other than rabies and which in the Animal Control Officer's
judgment are suffering and recovery is doubtful, the Animal Control Officer may
destroy the dog without awaiting the five (5) day period. (1978 Code § 13-255;
amd. Ord. 84-1, 1-4-1984; 1996 Code; Ord. 2019-4, 9-17-2019, eff. 9-17-2019)
5-2-12: ESTRAYS:
   A   Duty Of Animal Control Officer: It is hereby made the duty of the Animal
Control Officer to take into his possession and impound all estrays running at
large, and to dispose of the same as hereinafter provided. (1978 Code § 13-261)
   B   Notice Of Sale: Within three (3) days after an estray shall come into
the possession of the Animal Control Officer, he shall advertise the same in a
newspaper published in and having general circulation in the County by
publishing a notice in at least one issue of the newspaper, and by posting
notices for a period of ten (10) days in three (3) public places in the City,
one of which places shall be at or near the post office. He shall immediately
deliver a copy of such notice to the County Clerk or mail the same to him by
registered letter. The notice so filed with the County Clerk should be
available during reasonable hours for inspection by the public free of charge.
The notice herein provided for shall contain a description of the animals,
including all marks and brands, when taken, and the day, hour, and place of
sale, which shall be not less than ten (10) days or more than twenty (20) days
from the time of posting such notice. Such notice form is on file in the office
of the Court Clerk. (1978 Code § 13-262; 1996 Code)
   C   Return To Owner Upon Payment: If at any time before the sale of any
estrays, such animals shall be claimed and proved to be the property of any
person, the Animal Control Officer shall release them to the owner upon
receiving from him the cost of impounding, keeping and advertising the same.
   D   Unclaimed Animals:
      1   Sold To Highest Bidder: If the animals are not so claimed and taken
away, the Animal Control Officer shall, at the time and place mentioned in the
notice, proceed to sell the same, one at a time, to the highest cash bidder,
and shall execute and deliver a bill of sale transferring said animals to the
purchaser or purchasers thereof. The bill of sale shall be such form as is on
file in the office of the Court Clerk.
      2   Bill Of Sale Filed With County Clerk: The Animal Control Officer
shall immediately file a copy of such bill of sale with the County Clerk or
forward the same to him by registered mail. Such bill of sale shall transfer
and vest in such purchaser the full title to the animals thus sold. (1978 Code
§ 13-263; 1996 Code)
   E   Records Maintained By Animal Control Officer: The Animal Control Officer
shall keep an accurate record of all estrays received by him, their age, color,
sex, marks, and brands, the time and place of taking and the expense of keeping
and selling the same, all animals claimed and taken away, all animals sold and
to whom sold and the amount paid, all monies paid to owners after sale, all
monies paid into the treasury, and all other matters necessary for compliance
with the provisions of this Section. The City Council shall provide the Animal
Control Officer with a suitable book in which shall be entered the records
required by law to be kept by the Animal Control Officer. Such records shall be
open to the inspection of the public at all reasonable hours, and shall be
deposited by the Animal Control Officer with his successor in office. (1978
Code § 13-264; 1996 Code)
   F   Regulations For Trespassing Estrays Causing Damage:
      1   Recovery Of Damages: If any cattle, horses, asses, mules, sheep,
goats or swine shall trespass or do damage upon the premises of any person, the
party aggrieved, whether he be the owner or the occupant of such premises, may
recover damages by an action at law against the owner of the trespassing
animals or by distraining and impounding the animals in the manner provided.
(1978 Code § 13-265)
      2   Appraisal Of Damages: The owner or occupant of any property may
distrain any or all of said animals trespassing or doing damage thereon. He
shall, within forty eight (48) hours thereafter, deliver said animals to the
Animal Control Officer together with a certificate of the appraisal of the
damage done by such animals. Such appraisal must be made by some disinterested
person. It must state the amount of the damage, the time when committed, the
name of the person damaged, the name of the owner of the animals, if known, and
if not known, it must state that fact together with a description of the
animals, including all visible marks and brands. If the animals appear to be
owned by different parties, a separate appraisement and a separate certificate
thereof shall be made of the damage done by the lot or group of animals which
appear to belong to each of the different owners. In such cases, the owners
shall be notified separately, and each lot or group of animals shall be
advertised and sold separately in the same manner as though the damage had been
done by different animals at different times. (1978 Code § 13-266; 1996 Code)
      3   Owner Notified: The person distraining the animals must, if the owner
of the same be known to him and if he resides within ten (10) miles of the
place of the trespass, immediately deliver to such owner, or leave at his place
of residence if he cannot be found, a copy of such certificate of appraisement;
but if the owner does not live within ten (10) miles of the place of trespass,
the party distraining the animals may at his option deliver a copy of such
certificate to the owner in person, or deposit the same in the nearest post
office in a registered letter addressed to said owner. He shall be entitled to
charge thirty cents ($0.30) a mile for the miles necessarily traveled in
delivering such certificate, to be taxed as costs against the animals. (1978
Code § 13-267; 1996 Code)
      4   Failure To Notify Owner Waives Damages: If the party distraining any
animals shall fail to deliver them or the certificate of appraisement to the
Animal Control Officer within forty eight (48) hours, or shall fail to deliver
to the owners of the animals, if known, a copy of the certificate of appraisal
within forty eight (48) hours after he receives the same or to deposit the same
in a post office as herein provided, he shall not be entitled to recover
damages under the provisions of this Section. (1978 Code § 13-268; 1996 Code)
      5   Duty Of Animal Control Officer If Owner Unknown: Whenever any animals
are delivered to the Animal Control Officer and the certificate of appraisement
is filed with him as herein provided and such certificate states that the owner
is unknown, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately examine all brand
books or brand sheets available. If the owner be ascertained thereby or if the
owner be already known to the Animal Control Officer, he shall, if the owner
lives within ten (10) miles, immediately deliver a copy of such certificate of
appraisement to such owner, or leave the same at his residence if he cannot be
found. If the owner lives more than ten (10) miles away, the Animal Control
Officer may at his option deliver such copy personally to the owner, or deposit
the same in the nearest post office in a registered letter addressed to such
owner. He shall, however, serve a copy in one of the ways provided herein;
provided, that whenever personal service of a copy of any paper is required by
this Chapter, service by agent shall be deemed sufficient. (1978 Code § 13-269;
1996 Code)
      6   Owner Entitled To Residue Of Proceeds: If any estrays or trespassing
animals sold under the provisions of this Section shall, within a period of six
(6) months following the date of sale, be claimed and proved to be the property
of any person, it shall be the duty of the Treasurer at the expiration of such
time to pay the money received for such animals to the owner thereof, less the
amount of damages and the expense of taking, keeping, and selling the same. In
the event such animals are not claimed as aforesaid, such money shall become
the property of the City; provided, that in case there is a contest between two
(2) or more persons claiming to be the owners of any such animals, the
Treasurer shall pay the residue to the party who shall establish by action his
right to the same. (1978 Code § 13-274)
      7   Records Maintained By Animal Control Officer: The Animal Control
Officer shall keep an accurate record of all trespassing animals received by
him, which record shall contain all the items required by this Chapter together
with the names of the injured party and the owner of the animals, the amount of
the damages claimed, and all other matters necessary to maintain a complete
account of the transaction. Such record shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable hours without charge. (1978 Code § 13-275; 1996 Code)
   G   Retaking Animal Unlawfully: It shall be unlawful for anyone to take any
animal out of the possession of anyone lawfully holding the same under the
provisions of this Section, either by stealth, force, fraud, or to intercept or
hinder any person lawfully taking up or attempting to take up such animals.
(1978 Code § 13-276)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Utah Codes Adopted By Reference
5-3-2: Curfew
5-3-3: Discharge Of Firearms Within City Limits
5-3-4: Loudspeakers
5-3-1: UTAH CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the following state statutes, as amended, are hereby adopted by the
city. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
chapter, and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this chapter if proceeded hereunder:
   A   Title 30, chapter 6; cohabitant abuse act.
   B   Title 58, chapter 37; Utah controlled substances act.
   C   Title 76; Utah criminal code.
   D   Title 77; Utah code of criminal procedure.
   E   1995 edition of the Utah criminal and traffic code, as published by the
state department of public safety. (1996 Code)
5-3-2: CURFEW:
   A   Specified Hours; Exception: No person under the age of eighteen (18)
years shall be or remain upon any of the streets, alleys or public places or
vacant lots at night between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following day, unless such person is accompanied by a
parent, guardian or other person having legal custody of such minor person, or
unless the employment or lawful business of such minor makes it necessary to be
upon the streets, alleys or public places between such specified hours, in
which event such minor person shall obtain a permit from the chief of police to
be upon the streets, alleys or public places during such hours. For minors
attending school, civic or church functions, the hours of curfew shall be
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., or one hour past the time the attended function
ends, to five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following day. (1978 Code § 13-312; amd.
1996 Code)
   B   Responsibility Of Guardian: It shall be the responsibility of the legal
guardians of any person under the age of eighteen (18) to ensure that all
provisions of subsection A of this section are met. (1978 Code § 13-313; amd.
1996 Code)
5-3-3: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS WITHIN CITY LIMITS:
   A   Firearms Defined: Pistols, revolvers, shotguns or rifles, and/or any
device which could be used as a weapon as defined by Utah state law. (Ord.
2009-12, 3-24-2009, eff. 4-13-2009)
   B   Unlawful; Exception: It is unlawful for any person to discharge any
firearm within the limits of the city; provided, that this section shall not
apply to peace officers in the pursuit of official duties, persons acting in
self-defense or to persons who are members of or guests at a shooting gallery
or rifle club and who discharge their firearms within the safe confines of the
club or gallery; provided, that adequate safety measures have been observed in
the construction of the club or gallery so as to protect the health and safety
of the public.
   C   Penalty: A violation of this section is a class B misdemeanor, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-6 of this code. (Ord. 93-2, 9-22-1993; amd. 1996 Code)
5-3-4: LOUDSPEAKERS:
It is an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-6 of this code, for any person to maintain, operate, connect or suffer or
permit to be maintained, operated or connected any calliope or radio apparatus,
sound device or loudspeaker attached thereto in such a manner that the
loudspeaker or amplifier causes the sound to be projected directly therefrom
outside of any building, vehicle or out of doors; provided, that the chief of
police may grant a permit to broadcast any events or happenings of cultural,
political, intellectual or religious interest. (1978 Code § 13-333; amd. 1996
Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Adoption Of Utah Criminal And Traffic Code
6-1-1: ADOPTION OF UTAH CRIMINAL AND TRAFFIC CODE:
The City hereby adopts the 1995 Edition of the Utah Criminal and Traffic Code,
and subsequent amendments, as published by the State Department of Public
Safety. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
USE OF ALL-TERRAIN RECREATIONAL VEHICLES (ATV) WITHIN CITY LIMITS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Street Legal ATV
6-2-3: Terms And Conditions Of OHV Use
6-2-4: Off Highway Implement Of Husbandry
6-2-5: Protective Headgear Requirements
6-2-6: Operation Of OHVs On Nondesignated City Streets Or State Highways In
City Limits
6-2-7: No Liability
6-2-8: Insurance Requirements
6-2-9: Authority To Enforce
6-2-10: Penalties Imposed
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE I VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle fifty inches (52") or less in
width, having an unladen dry weight of 1,500 pounds or less, traveling on three
(3) or more low pressure tires, having a seat designed to be straddled by the
operator, and designed for or capable of travel over unimproved terrain,
consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-102(2).
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE II VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle eighty inches (80") or less in
width, traveling on four (4) or more low pressure tires, having a steering
wheel, non-straddle seating, a rollover protection system, and designed for or
capable of travel over unimproved terrain, and is either an electric-powered
vehicle or a vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine with an unladen
dry weight of 3,500 pounds or less, consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 41- 6a-102
(3). This does not include golf carts, any vehicle designed to carry a person
with a disability, any vehicle not specifically designed or modified primarily
for recreational use on unimproved terrain, or farm tractors as defined under
Utah Code Ann. § 41-1a-102.
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE III VEHICLE: Any other motor vehicle that is designed for or
capable of travel over unimproved terrain and is not an all-terrain type I
vehicle, an all-terrain type II vehicle, a motorcycle, or snowmobile,
consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-102(4). This does not include golf
carts, any vehicle designed to carry a person with a disability, any vehicle
not specifically designed or modified primarily for recreational use on
unimproved terrain, or farm tractors as defined under Utah Code Ann. § 41-1a-
102.
LEGAL ROUTE: Any public street within the city of Monticello except for U.S.
Highway 191 and U.S. Highway 491.
MOTORCYCLE: Either (1) a motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel with not more than three
(3) wheels in contact with the ground; or (2) an autocycle, consistent with
Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-102(46).
OFF-HIGHWAY IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY: Any all-terrain type I vehicle, all-terrain
type II vehicle, all-terrain type III vehicle, motorcycle, or snowmobile that
is used by the owner or the owner’s agent for agricultural operations,
consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-102(48).
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE (OHV): Any snowmobile, all-terrain type I vehicle, all-
terrain type II vehicle, all-terrain type III vehicle, or motorcycle,
consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-102(49).
OPERATE: To control the movement of or otherwise use an off-highway vehicle,
consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-102(50).
OPERATOR: Either (1) a natural person who performs in real-time all or part of
the dynamic driving task; or (2) hardware and software that are collectively
capable of performing the entire dynamic driving task on a sustained basis,
regardless of whether such is limited to a specific operational design domain,
if any, consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-102(51).
OWNER'S OR OPERATOR'S SECURITY, OWNER'S SECURITY, OR OPERATOR'S SECURITY: Any
of the following, consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 41-12a-103(10):
   A.   An insurance policy or combination of policies conforming to Utah Code
Ann. § 31A- 22-302, which is issued by an insurer authorized to do business in
Utah.
   B.   An insurance policy or combination of policies issued or renewed prior
to January 1, 2009, that:
      1.   Conformed to the minimum coverage limits of Utah Code Ann. § 31A-22-
304 prior to January 1, 2009; and
      2.   Conform to the current requirements other than the minimum coverage
limits of policies issued in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 31A-22-302.
   C.   A surety bond issued by an insurer authorized to do a surety business
in Utah in which the surety is subject to the minimum coverage limits and other
requirements of policies conforming to Utah Code Ann. § 31A-22-302, which names
the department as a creditor under the bond for the use of persons entitled to
the proceeds of the bond.
   D.   A deposit with the state treasurer of cash or securities complying with
Utah Code Ann. § 41-12a-406.
   E.   A certificate of self-funded coverage under Utah Code Ann. § 41-12a-
407.
   F.   A policy conforming to Utah Code Ann. § 31A-22-302 issued by the Risk
Management Fund created in Utah Code Ann. § 63A-4-201.
SNOWMOBILE: Any motor vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice and steered
and supported in whole or in part by skis, belts, cleats, runners, or low
pressure tires, and equipped with a saddle or seat for the use of the rider,
consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 41-22-2(22).
STREET-LEGAL ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (STREET-LEGAL ATV): Any all-terrain type I
vehicle, all-terrain type II vehicle, or all-terrain type III vehicle, that is
modified to meet the requirements of and to operate on highways in the state in
accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-1509, consistent with Utah Code Ann. §
41-6a-102(77). (Ord. 2009-14, 5-26-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-13-2009; amd.
Ord. 2025-03, 7-8-2025)
6-2-2: STREET LEGAL ATV:
A street-legal ATV may be operated on any city street or state highway in city
limits that is at least one lane in each direction under the following terms
and conditions:
   A.   Said allowance must be in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-1509.
   B.   Street-legal ATV is legally licensed and registered.
   C.   Street-legal ATV is in a safe running condition.
   D.   Street-legal ATV is being operated in a safe manner.
   E.   Street-legal ATV operator is obeying all state and city traffic laws.
   F.   Street-legal ATV operator holds a legal driver's license. (Ord. 2009-
14, 5-26-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-13-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 7-8-2025)
6-2-3: TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OHV USE:
Monticello city streets except for U.S. Highway 191 and U.S. Highway 491
(hereinafter called legal route) are hereby declared open for off highway
vehicle use under the following conditions and/or restrictions:
   A.   Compliance with Utah Code Ann. § 41-22-37.
   B.   OHV may openly travel throughout the city in regards to the restriction
listed below.
   C.   OHV is legally licensed and registered.
   D.   OHV is in a safe running condition.
   E.   OHV is being operated in a safe manner.
   F.   OHV operator is obeying all state and city traffic laws.
   G.   OHV is not driven on 200 West from 200 South to 400 North.
   H.   OHV are not permitted to travel along HWY-191 or HWY-491 but may cross
at designated intersections not including the intersection at Main and Center
Street.
   I.   An OHV operator holds a legal driver’s license and an OHV education
certificate issued by the State of Utah. Driver’s that are unlicensed must hold
an age-appropriate OHV education certificate issued by the State of Utah.
Certificates must be available at all times during operation.
      1.   OHV operated by unlicensed drivers can only travel within the city
while being accompanied by a licensed driver. Each driver may have their OHV to
operate or can share equipment if designed for multiple passengers.
Unaccompanied travel by unlicensed drivers is prohibited within City limits.
   J.   OHV’s shall only be operated during daylight hours unless equipped with
head and taillights.
      1.   For OHV equipped with lights, the lights are required to be on
during evening or nighttime travel on streets and highways.
   K.   No three-wheel ATV or OHV type vehicles are allowed on city streets.
(Ord. 2009-14, 5-26-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-13-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 7-
8-2025)
6-2-4: OFF HIGHWAY IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY:
Restrictions do not apply to off-highway implements of husbandry used in
accordance with state law section 41-22-5.5. (Ord. 2009-14, 5-26-2009, eff.
retroactive to 4-13-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 7-8-2025)
6-2-5: PROTECTIVE HEADGEAR REQUIREMENTS:
Per Utah Code Ann. § 41-22-10.8:
   A.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) may not operate or ride on an
OHV in city limits unless the person is wearing properly fitted and fastened,
United States Department of Transportation safety-rated protective headgear
designed for motorized vehicle use.
   B.   The owner of an OHV may not give permission to a person under the age
of eighteen (18) to operate or ride on the OHV in violation of Subsection A.
   C.   An operator and passengers of off-highway implements of husbandry
operated in the manner prescribed by Utah Code Ann. § 41-22-5.5(3)–(4) are
exempt from the requirements of this section.
   D.   A violation of this section is an infraction punishable by a fine of
not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) per offense. (Ord. 2009-14, 5-26-2009,
eff. retroactive to 4-13-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 7-8-2025)
6-2-6: OPERATION OF OHVs ON NONDESIGNATED CITY STREETS OR STATE HIGHWAYS IN
CITY LIMITS:
An operator may not operate an OHV upon any city street or state highway within
city limits not designated as open to off highway vehicle use except:
   A.   When crossing said street or highway and the operator comes to a
complete stop before crossing, proceeds only after yielding the right of way to
oncoming traffic, and crosses at a right angle;
   B.   When loading or unloading an off highway vehicle from a vehicle or
trailer, which shall be done with due regard for safety, and at the nearest
practical point of operation;
   C.   When an emergency exists, during any period of time and at those
locations when the operation of conventional motor vehicles is impractical or
when the operation is directed by the city police chief or city mayor; or
   D.   When operating a street legal all-terrain vehicle on a highway in
accordance with state law section 41-6a-1509. (Ord. 2009-14, 5-26-2009, eff.
retroactive to 4-13-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 7-8-2025)
6-2-7: NO LIABILITY:
In accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 41-22-10.1, liability may not be imposed on
any federal, state, county, or municipality relating to the designation or
maintenance of any land, trail, street, or highway open for off highway vehicle
use. (Ord. 2009-14, 5-26-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-13-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-
03, 7-8-2025)
6-2-8: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
In accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 41-12a-301, owner's or operator's security
is not required for OHVs registered under Utah Code Ann. § 41-22-3 when
operated either:
   A.   On a highway (includes legal route) designated as open for OHV use; or
   B.   In the manner prescribed by Utah Code Ann. § 41-22-10.3(1)–(3). (Ord.
2009-14, 5-26-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-13-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 7-8-2025)
6-2-9: AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE:
The police department or other legal policing authority is given all rights to
write citations to those individuals breaking laws as outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-14, 5-26-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-13-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 7-
8-2025)
6-2-10: PENALTIES IMPOSED:
Unless otherwise specified, a person who violates this chapter is guilty of an
infraction and will be penalized in accordance with Monticello city ordinances
governing the same. (Ord. 2009-14, 5-26-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-13-2009;
amd. Ord. 2025-03, 7-8-2025)
CHAPTER 3
USE OF GOLF CARTS WITHIN CITY LIMITS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Authorization Of Golf Carts
6-3-3: Restrictions On Operations
6-3-4: Restrictions On Area Of Use
6-3-5: Traffic Regulations
6-3-6: Street-Legal Golf Carts Restrictions
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
GOLF CART: A device that: (i) is designed for transportation by players on a
golf course; (ii) has not less than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground; (iii) has an unladen weight of less than 1,800 pounds; (iv) is designed
to operate at low speeds; and (v) is designed to carry not more than six (6)
people including the driver.
Golf Cart does not include: (i) a low-speed vehicle or an off-highway vehicle;
(ii) a motorized wheelchair; (iii) an electric personal assistive mobility
device; (iv) an electric assisted bicycle; (v) a motor assisted scooter; or
(vi) a personal delivery device or mobile carrier, as defined in Utah Code.
LOW SPEED VEHICLE: A four (4) wheeled motor vehicle that: (i) is designed to be
operated at speeds of not more than twenty five (25) miles per hour; and (ii)
has a capacity of not more than six (6) passengers, including a conventional
driver or fallback-ready user if on board the vehicle, as those terms are
defined in Utah Code § 41-26-102.1.
STREET-LEGAL GOLF CARTS: Golf carts that have been modified to be street legal
and meet all requirements of the Utah Code to operate on highways of the state
are exempt from the restrictions of this section. (Ord. 2025-02, 4-8-2025)
6-3-2: AUTHORIZATION OF GOLF CARTS:
Subject to the restrictions and regulations of this section, golf carts may be
operated by persons on golf courses, streets, and highways under the
jurisdiction of Monticello City. (Ord. 2025-02, 4-8-2025)
6-3-3: RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONS:
   A.   Only persons with a valid drivers license may operate a golf cart on
streets and highways within the city.
   B.   Golf carts shall not be operated at a speed in excess of twenty five
(25) miles per hour.
   C.   Golf carts shall only be operated during daylight hours unless equipped
with head and taillights.
      1.   For golf carts equipped with lights, the lights are required to be
on during evening or nighttime travel on streets and highways.
   D.   Golf carts shall not carry any more than the number of individuals for
which the golf cart was originally manufactured. Under no circumstances shall a
golf cart carry more than six individuals. (Ord. 2025-02, 4-8-2025)
6-3-4: RESTRICTIONS ON AREA OF USE:
   A.   Golf carts shall not be operated on a city street or highway with a
speed limit greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour.
   B.   Golf carts are not permitted to travel along HWY-191 or HWY-491 but may
cross at designated intersections not including the intersection at Main and
Center Street.
   C.   Golf carts are not allowed to travel along 200 West from 200 South to
400 North (school zone).
   D.   Golf carts are not permitted on sidewalks, designated handicap parking,
or other no parking/restricted zones (i.e. in fire lanes or in front of fire
hydrants).
   E.   Golf carts may openly travel throughout town regardless of attendance
at the Golf Course. (Ord. 2025-02, 4-8-2025)
6-3-5: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Golf carts are subject to alcohol, Driving Under the Influence, and
open container laws of the State of Utah whenever the golf cart is moving,
stopped, or parked on any City street or highway, with the exception that
occupants of a golf cart operating within a designated golf cart path at the
Hideout Golf Course are exempt from the open container laws of the State of
Utah.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, golf carts shall comply
with the same requirements as a bicycle for traffic rules pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated, Title 41, Chapter 6a, Traffic Code. (Ord. 2025-02, 4-8-2025)
6-3-6: STREET-LEGAL GOLF CARTS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   All Utah Code provisions applicable to the licensing, insuring,
registration, and operation of such vehicles shall apply.
   B.   Street-legal golf carts shall not be operated on a City street or
highway with a posted speed limit of thirty (30) miles per hour or greater.
   C.   Golf carts are not permitted to travel along HWY-191 or HWY-491 but may
cross at designated intersections not including the intersection at Main and
Center Street.
   D.   Golf carts are not permitted on sidewalks, designated handicap parking,
or other no parking/restricted zones (i.e. in fire lanes or in front of fire
hydrants). (Ord. 2025-02, 4-8-2025)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Street Department
7-1-2: Encroachment Permit
7-1-3: Parking During And After Snowstorms
7-1-4: Removal Of Snow
7-1-5: Obstructions In Streets Or Public Ways
7-1-6: Discharge Of Water
7-1-7: Sidewalk Regulations
7-1-8: Driving Animals On Streets
7-1-1: STREET DEPARTMENT:
   A   Supervision: The Street Department shall have general supervision of
streets, sidewalks, bridges and other public ways.
   B   Public Works Manager: The Department shall be under the direction and
control of the Public Works Manager. (1978 Code § 11-311; 1996 Code)
   C   Powers And Duties: The Department shall:
      1   Have charge of the construction, maintenance and repair of streets,
sidewalks, bridges, curbs, gutters, culverts, drains, waterways and other
public ways. It shall have control of all waters flowing on the streets,
sidewalks and public ways whether originating from storm, flood, drainage or
irrigation waters.
      2   Keep a record of and promptly investigate all complaints of defective
streets, culverts, drains, ditches, sidewalks, and other public ways and, when
proper, repair, replace or take such action as deemed best, and shall record
the action taken on each complaint.
      3   Enforce the provisions of this Chapter and all other ordinances
relating to the maintenance and use of streets, culverts, drains, ditches,
waterways, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and other public ways.
      4   Repair, or cause to be repaired, all defects coming to the
Department's attention and take reasonable precautions to protect the public
from injuries due to such defects pending their repair. (1978 Code § 11-312)
7-1-2: ENCROACHMENT PERMIT:
   A   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, cut, or remove any
sod or earth from any street or other public place, or to alter or begin
construction on any City-owned or controlled property within the City without
first obtaining an encroachment permit from the Zoning Administrator.
   B   Modification Or Removal; Owner's Expense: Any alteration or construction
performed on City-owned or controlled property without an encroachment permit,
or any deviation from the permitted alteration or construction, may be subject
to modification or removal at the expense of the owner. (1996 Code)
7-1-3: PARKING DURING AND AFTER SNOWSTORMS:
   A   Defined: For the purposes of this Section, "City street" shall be
defined as being from curb to curb or, if no curb, being two feet (2') past the
oiled portion or graveled surface of the road.
   B   Unlawful To Park, Leave Or Abandon: It shall be unlawful to park, leave
or abandon a motor vehicle on any portion of a City street beginning one hour
after the commencement of snowfall until the storm is over and snow removal
operations have ceased.
   C   Vehicles Subject To Tow: Vehicles remaining on City streets under these
conditions are subject to being towed at owners' expense.
   D   Penalty: A violation of this Section will be considered a Class C
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code. (Ord. 95-7, 12-13-1995; 1996 Code)
7-1-4: REMOVAL OF SNOW:
   A   Failure To Remove Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for the owner,
occupant, lessor, or agent of any property, abutting on a paved sidewalk, to
fail to remove, or have removed from such paved sidewalk, all hail, snow, or
sleet thereon within a reasonable time after such snow, hail, or sleet has
fallen. In the case of a storm between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., such sidewalks shall be cleaned before nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the same day.
   B   Depositing In Gutter Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person
removing snow from the sidewalk, to deposit snow, dirt, leaves, or any other
material, in the gutter so as to clog or prevent the free flow of water
therein. (1978 Code § 11-361)
7-1-5: OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS OR PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premise to place, or permit to be placed upon or in the sidewalk, parking area,
gutter, or on the half of the street next to such premise:
   A   Refuse: Any broken ware, glass, filth, rubbish, sweepings, refuse
matter, ice, snow, water, garbage, ashes, tin cans or other like substances.
   B   Building Or Yard Materials: Any lumber, wood boxes, fencing, building
material, dead trees, tree stumps, or any other thing which shall obstruct such
public street, gutter, parking area or sidewalk, or any part thereof, except as
expressly authorized by ordinance, without the permission of the City.
   C   Permanent Or Temporary Structures: Any permanent or temporary structure,
mechanism, device, vehicle, or other thing of any kind or character except
trees planted pursuant to the provisions of applicable ordinances. (1978 Code §
11-362; 1996 Code)
7-1-6: DISCHARGE OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying, or having control of any
premise to fail, refuse or neglect to prevent water from the roof or eaves of
any house, building, or other structure, or from any other source under the
control of such person, to be discharged upon the surface of any sidewalk.
(1978 Code § 11-365)
7-1-7: SIDEWALK REGULATIONS:
   A   Businesses To Keep Clean: It shall be unlawful for any owners or
occupants of any place of business to refuse, neglect or fail to cause the
sidewalk abutting thereon to be swept or cleaned each morning before the hour
of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (1978 Code § 11-367)
   B   Placing Goods For Sale Or Show: No goods, wares, or merchandise shall be
placed, maintained or permitted for sale or show in or on any parking area,
street, or sidewalk beyond two feet (2') from the front line of the lot,
without first obtaining approval of the City. Such approval shall be granted
only when such sale or show shall be a promotional activity not exceeding forty
eight (48) hours. (1978 Code § 11-368; 1996 Code)
   C   Placing Goods For Receipt Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, or allow to be placed or kept upon any sidewalk, any goods,
wares or merchandise which he may be receiving or delivering, without leaving a
four foot (4') passageway upon such sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for any
person receiving or delivering such goods, wares or merchandise to allow the
same to be or remain on such sidewalk for a longer period than two (2) hours.
(1978 Code § 11-369; 1996 Code)
   D   Playing: Every person who obstructs the sidewalk or street by playing
any game or engaging in any activity which obstructs the free travel thereon is
guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code. (1978 Code § 11-370; 1996 Code)
   E   Congregating: It is an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-6 of this Code for any person or persons to congregate about or upon any
sidewalks, stairway, doorway, window or in front of any business or dwelling
house, theater, lecture room, church or elsewhere and by so doing to obstruct
or interfere with the free passage of persons entering, leaving or occupying
such building or premises. (1978 Code § 11-371; 1996 Code)
   F   Driving Or Parking; Established Crossings: It shall be unlawful for any
person to drive or park a vehicle or to lead any animal, with the exception of
a dog, or to drive, or ride any animal upon any sidewalk except across a
sidewalk at established crossings. (1978 Code § 11-366; 1996 Code)
7-1-8: DRIVING ANIMALS ON STREETS:
Every person who drives any herd of sheep or band of horses, cattle or other
animals upon any public street or highway without first obtaining a permit from
the Chief of Police is guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code. (1978 Code § 11-331; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STREET, SIDEWALK, AND CURB AND GUTTER CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Inspection
7-2-2: Changing Existing Construction
7-2-3: Sidewalk Installation
7-2-4: Curb And Gutter Installation
7-2-5: Building Materials In Street
7-2-6: Mixing Concrete On Paved Streets Or Sidewalks
7-2-7: Overflowing Of Water
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION:
   A   Required: No person, either as owner, agent, contractor or employee,
shall construct any permanent sidewalk for public use without first obtaining
from the zoning administrator a permit to do so. The permit shall specify that
the sidewalk be constructed to standard specifications of the city.
   B   Unlawful Violation Of Standard Specifications: It shall be unlawful to
construct a sidewalk in violation of the standard specifications of the city.
   C   Inspection: All sidewalks shall be inspected by the zoning administrator
or his duly authorized representative. (1978 Code § 11-352; amd. 1996 Code)
7-2-2: CHANGING EXISTING CONSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a driveway across a sidewalk,
or cut or change the construction of sidewalk, curb or gutter without first
making written application and obtaining from the zoning administrator a permit
to do so. The acceptance of such permit shall be deemed an agreement on the
part of such person to construct said driveway in accordance with
specifications furnished by the city. (1978 Code § 11-353; amd. 1996 Code)
7-2-3: SIDEWALK INSTALLATION:
   A   City Initiated Sidewalk Installation: The city will require signed
agreements from property owners on an entire block before sidewalks will be
installed.
      1   The property owner must agree to pay one-third (1/3) of the cost of
sidewalk fronting their property.
      2   Cost will be based on the linear feet of property frontage to the
sidewalk.
      3   The city shall be responsible for soliciting bids for the project,
and shall award the contract to a qualified licensed contractor.
      4   Sidewalk installation shall be done in accordance with the master
plan, dependent on the city's financial capability.
   B   Property Owner Installation: Property owners desirous of installing
sidewalk in front of their property may be permitted to do so on an individual
basis, and may request participation from the city, under the following
conditions:
      1   Application to install the sidewalk shall be made to the city
manager, who will give consideration to the proposed location and how it would
relate to the city's master plan.
      2   If approval is granted by the city manager, the following regulations
shall apply:
         a   The sidewalk must be installed by a licensed contractor, who shall
be approved in advance by the city.
         b   The sidewalk shall be installed in conformance with city
specifications, as hereinafter stated in subsection C of this section.
      3   An agreement shall be signed between the property owner and the city
of Monticello, with the following stipulations:
         a   A written quote shall be obtained from the licensed contractor for
the total cost of the installation, based on the linear feet of property
frontage to the sidewalk, including materials and labor, and the total cost
specified in the agreement;
         b   The property owner shall agree to pay two-thirds (2/3) of the
total cost of the sidewalk to the city by the date specified in the agreement;
         c   The city shall agree to pay one-third (1/3) of the total cost of
the sidewalk and shall be responsible for making payment directly to the
contractor, in the full amount, when the project has been satisfactorily
completed. (Ord. 2004-3, 10-13-2004)
   C   Specifications: The minimum width for sidewalks in a residential area is
the minimum required by the most current ADA (Americans with disabilities act)
standards, with a thickness of four inches (4"), and a slope of one-eighth inch
(1/8") per foot towards the street is required. Control joints shall be placed
every five feet (5') and, when practical, shall be located in conjunction with
curb and gutter control joints. Field modifications or deviations from the
specifications may be permitted, based on extenuating circumstances, and shall
be at the sole discretion of the streets superintendent. (Ord. 2008-2, 7-9-
2008, eff. 7-9-2008)
   D   City To Have Final Determination: The city will have final determination
in every instance and reserves the right to deny any application for
installation of sidewalk, whether or not a request has been made for city
participation. (Ord. 2004-3, 10-13-2004)
7-2-4: CURB AND GUTTER INSTALLATION:
   A   Curb And Gutter Policy: Curb and gutter will be installed by the city in
accordance with the master plan, dependent on the city's financial capability,
under the following conditions:
      1   The city will require signed agreements from all owners of property
fronting the proposed curb and gutter project prior to the construction.
         a   The agreement will require the property owner to pay one-third (1/
3) of the cost of the curb and gutter abutting his property, based on the
linear feet of frontage.
      2   The city shall be responsible for soliciting bids for the project,
and shall award the contract to a qualified licensed contractor.
      3   Curb and gutter shall be installed by a licensed contractor in
conformance with city specifications, as hereinafter stated in subsection B of
this section.
   B   Specifications: The width of high back curb and gutter will be thirty
inches (30"); low back curb and gutter will be allowed at driveway approaches,
but shall be kept to a minimum to maintain maximum water carrying ability.
(Ord. 2004-4, 10-13-2004)
7-2-5: BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET:
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or use any portion of the public
streets when erecting or repairing any building upon land abutting thereon.
(1978 Code § 11-354; amd. 1996 Code; Ord. 2004-4, 10-13-2004)
7-2-6: MIXING CONCRETE ON PAVED STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful to:
   A   Place, Pile Or Permit: Place or pile or permit to be placed or piled,
any sand, gravel, lime, cement, mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance
or mixture, or allow the same to remain on any portion of any street or
sidewalk.
   B   Make, Mix Or Permit: Make or mix or permit to be made or mixed any
mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance or mixture on any portion of
any street or sidewalk. (1978 Code § 11-355; amd. 1996 Code; Ord. 2004-4, 10-
13-2004)
7-2-7: OVERFLOWING OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow water to overflow from any ditch,
canal, well or irrigation stream onto the streets, sidewalks or property of the
city. (1978 Code § 11-356; amd. Ord. 2004-4, 10-13-2004)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Permit Required; Basis For Issuance
7-3-3: Permit Application Requirements
7-3-4: Emergency Work
7-3-5: Permit Fees
7-3-6: Permit Contents, Duration And Extensions
7-3-7: Permit; No Transfer Or Assignment
7-3-8: Compliance With Specifications, Standards, Traffic- Control Regulations;
Site Permittee Identification
7-3-9: Other Highway Permits
7-3-10: Relocation Of Structures In Public Ways
7-3-11: Impact Of Excavation On Existing Improvements
7-3-12: Restoration Of Public Property
7-3-13: Insurance Requirements
7-3-14: Bond; When Required, Conditions, Warranty
7-3-15: Hold Harmless Agreement; Limitations On City Liability
7-3-16: Work Without Permit; Penalty
7-3-17: Failure To Comply; Default In Performance
7-3-18: Failure To Conform To Design Standards; Penalty
7-3-19: Appeal Of Suspension, Revocation, Or Stop Order
7-3-20: Tampering With Traffic Barricades
7-3-21: Conflict With Governing Provisions
7-3-22: Violation; Penalty
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for a permit.
BUSINESS: Any place in the City in which there is conducted or carried on
principally or exclusively any pursuit or occupation for the purpose of gaining
a livelihood.
CITY: The City of Monticello, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah.
CITY MANAGER: The Monticello City Manager, or his/her authorized
representative.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes an immediate danger to persons or property, or which causes
interruption of utility or public services.
ENGINEERING REGULATIONS, REGULATIONS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND/OR DESIGN STANDARDS:
The latest version of the engineering regulations, specifications, design
standards, or criteria published or adopted by the City.
FAILURE: A work site restoration which fails to meet City specifications, or
which results in a deteriorated or substandard condition within the duration of
the warranty period. Failure may be settlement of surfaces, deterioration of
materials, or other surface irregularities. Measurement of failure shall be
further defined in the regulations.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the right of way.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and,
directly or through one or more affiliates, owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
PERMITTEE: Any person who has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed to
fulfill the requirements of this Chapter.
PERSON: Means and includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association,
provider, corporation, company, organization or entity of any kind.
PIPE DRIVEWAY: A driveway approach which uses a pipe or other means to bridge
the gutter.
PRIVATE DRAIN LINE: A pipe installed solely for the transmission of water
collected or generated on private property such as drainage, spring, or storm
water, or condensate into the public drainage system.
PROPERTY OWNER: Person or persons who have legal title to property and/or
equitable interest in the property, or the ranking official or agent of a
company having legal title to property and/or equitable interest in the
property.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, system lessee, or
public utility company.
PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY: Any company subject to the jurisdiction of the Utah
State Public Service Commission, or any mutual corporation providing gas,
electricity, water, telephone, or other utility product or services for use by
the general public.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all public rights of way and easements, public
footpaths, walkways and sidewalks, public streets, public roads, public
highways, public alleys, and public drainageways. It does not, however, include
utility easements not within public ways of the City.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides service over a system for which a
separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying
system used for the transmission and does not install any system in the rights
of way.
RESIDENT: The person or persons currently making their home at a particular
dwelling.
STORM DRAIN: A dedicated pipe, conduit, waterway, or ditch installed in a right
of way or easement for the transmission of storm and drainage water. This term
does not include private drain lines.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a provider located in the construction,
ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
WORK SITE RESTORATION: Means and includes the restoring of the original ground
or paved hard surface area to comply with regulations, and includes, but is not
limited to, repair, cleanup, backfilling, compaction, and stabilization, paving
and other work necessary to place the site in acceptable condition following
the conclusion of the work, or the expiration or revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; BASIS FOR ISSUANCE:
Any person desiring to perform work of any kind in a public way within the City
shall make application for a permit. The decision by the City to issue a permit
shall include, among other factors determined by the City, the following:
   A   The capacity of the public way to accommodate the facilities or
structures proposed to be installed in the public way;
   B   The capacity of the public way to accommodate multiple wires in addition
to cables, conduits, pipes or other facilities or structures of other users of
the public way, such as electrical power, telephone, gas, sewer and water;
   C   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, or landscaping previously existing in the public way;
   D   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction from numerous excavations of the public way. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-
1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-3: PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A   Filing Forms: Application for a permit shall be filed with the City
Manager on a form or forms to be furnished by the City. Property owners and/or
tenants for whom work is being done shall be responsible for obtaining the
permits; provided, however, contractors may obtain the permit in the
contractor's name.
   B   Eligible Persons: No person shall be eligible to apply for or receive
permits to do work within the public ways of the City, save and except the
following:
      1   Contractors licensed by the State as general contractors;
      2   Providers;
      3   Property owners installing, replacing, or maintaining less than five
hundred (500) square feet or one hundred (100) linear feet of sidewalk, curb,
and gutter, or driveway approach, or other work approved by the City, upon a
portion of the public way adjacent to their residence; or
      4   Persons offering a service which requires occupation of the public
way, such as scaffold or staging, staging of a crane, installation or
maintenance of electric signs, glass, awnings, and painting or cleaning of
buildings or sign boards or other structures.
   C   Denial: The City Manager may deny the issuance of permits to
contractors, utility companies, or other permit applicants who have shown by
past performance that, in the opinion of the City Manager, they will not
consistently conform to the regulations, specifications, design standards, or
the requirements of this Chapter.
   D   Plans And Sketches: When necessary, in the judgement of the City
Manager, to fully determine the relationship of the work proposed to existing
or proposed facilities within the public ways, or to determine whether the work
proposed complies with the regulations, construction specifications and design
standards, the City Manager may require the filing of engineering plans,
specifications and sketches showing the proposed work in sufficient detail to
permit determination of such relationship or compliance, or both, and the
application shall be deemed suspended until such plans and sketches are filed
and approved.
   E   Unlawful Without Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person to commence
work upon any public way until the City Manager has approved the application
and until a permit has been issued for work, except as specifically approved to
the contrary in this Chapter.
   F   Appeal Of Denial: The disapproval or denial of an application by the
City Manager may be appealed by the applicant to the Monticello City Council by
filing of a written notice of appeal within ten (10) days of the action of the
City Manager. The Monticello City Council shall hear such appeal, if written
request therefor be timely filed as soon as practicable, and render their
decision within two (2) weeks following notice of such appeal.
   G   City Manager's Authority: In approving or disapproving work within any
public way, or permits therefor, in the inspection of such work, in reviewing
plans, sketches or specifications, and generally in the exercise of the
authority conferred upon him/her by this Chapter, the City Manager shall act in
such manner as to preserve and protect the public way and the use thereof, but
shall have no authority to govern the actions or inaction of permittees and
applicants or other persons who have no relationship to the use, preservation
or protection of the public way.
   H   Exceptions: A permit is not required from the City Manager for hand
digging excavations for installation or repair of sprinkler systems and
landscaping within the nonpaved areas of the public way. However, conformance
to all City specifications is required. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-
1998)
7-3-4: EMERGENCY WORK:
   A   Any person maintaining pipes, lines, or facilities in the public way may
proceed with work upon existing facilities without a permit when emergency
circumstances demand the work to be done immediately; provided, a permit could
not reasonably and practicably have been obtained beforehand.
   B   In the event that emergency work is commenced on or within any public
way of the City during regular business hours, the City Manager shall be
notified within one-half (1/2) hour from the time the work is commenced. The
person commencing and conducting such work shall take all necessary safety
precautions for the protection of the public and the direction and control of
traffic, and shall ensure that work is accomplished according to City
regulations, the manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and other applicable
laws, regulations, or generally recognized practices in the industry.
   C   Any person commencing emergency work in the public way during other than
business hours without a permit shall immediately thereafter apply for a permit
or give notice during the first hour of the first regular business day on which
City offices are open for business after such work is commenced. A permit for
such emergency work may be issued which shall be retroactive to the date when
the work was begun, at the discretion of the City Manager. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-
1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-5: PERMIT FEES:
   A   The City shall charge, and the permittee shall pay upon issuance of the
permit, fees for costs associated with the work performed under the permit in
an amount established by resolution of the City Council. Such costs could
include costs for reviewing the project and issuing the permit, inspections of
the project, deterioration of the public way or diminution of the useful life
of the public way, and other costs to the City associated with the work to be
done under the permit. All costs shall be assessed in a nondiscriminatory
manner.
   B   The City Manager may waive permit fees or penalties or portion thereof
provided for in this Chapter, when he/she determines that such permit fee or
penalty:
      1   Pertains to construction or rehabilitation of housing for persons
whose income is below the median income level for the City; or
      2   Pertains to an encroachment on the public way involving a
beautification project which furthers specific goals and objectives set forth
in the City's strategic plan, master plans, or other official documents,
including decorative street lighting, building facade lighting, flower and
planting boxes, and landscaping.
   C   Additional charges to cover the reasonable cost and expenses of any
required engineering review, inspection, and work site restoration associated
with each undertaking may be charged by the City to each permittee, in addition
to the permit fee. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-6: PERMIT CONTENTS, DURATION AND EXTENSIONS:
   A   Contents: Each permit application shall state the starting date and
estimated completion date. Work shall be completed within five (5) days from
the starting date or as determined by the City Manager. Such determination
shall be based upon factors reasonably related to the work to be performed
under the permit. Such factors may include, in addition to other factors
related to the work to be performed, the following:
      1   The scope of work to be performed under the permit;
      2   Maintaining the safe and effective flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on the public way affected by the work;
      3   Protecting the existing improvements to the public way impacted by
the work;
      4   The season of the year during which the work is to be performed as
well as the current weather and its impact on public safety and the use of the
public way by the public;
      5   Use of the public way for extraordinary events anticipated by the
City.
   B   Duration: The City Manager shall be notified by the permittee of
commencement of the work within twenty four (24) hours prior to commencing
work. The permit shall be valid for the time period specified in the permit.
   C   Extensions: If the work is not completed during such period, prior to
the expiration of the permit, the permittee may apply to the City Manager for
an additional permit or an extension, which may be granted by the City Manager
for good cause shown.
The length of the extension requested by the permittee shall be subject to the
approval of the City Manager. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-7: PERMIT; NO TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT:
Permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not be
performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the permit.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting the work
to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of the
permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work under
the permit, and for all bonding, insurance and other requirements of this
Chapter and under said permit. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-8: COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS, STANDARDS, TRAFFIC- CONTROL REGULATIONS;
SITE PERMITTEE IDENTIFICATION:
   A   The work performed in the public way shall conform to the requirements
of the regulations, design standards, construction specifications and traffic-
control regulations of the City, copies of which shall be available from the
City Manager, kept on file in the office of the City Recorder, and be open to
public inspection during office hours.
   B   Where a job site is left unattended before completion of the work,
signage with minimum two inch (2") high letters shall be attached to a
barricade or otherwise posted at the site, indicating the permittee's name, or
company name, telephone number, and after-hours telephone number.
   C   All excavations shall be conducted in a manner resulting in a minimum
amount of interference or interruption of street or pedestrian traffic.
Inconvenience to residents and businesses fronting on the public way shall be
minimized. Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades and/or other structures
will be available and used where necessary to prevent accidents involving
property or persons. Barricades must be in place until all of the permittee's
equipment is removed from the site and the excavation has been backfilled and
proper temporary gravel surface is in place, except where backfilling and
resurfacing is to be done by the City; in which case the barricades, together
with any necessary lights, flares or torches must remain in place until the
backfill work is actually commenced by the City. From sunset to sunrise, all
barricades and excavations must be clearly outlined by adequate signal lights,
torches, etc. The Police Department and Fire Department shall be notified at
least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any planned excavation requiring
street closure or traffic detour. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-9: OTHER HIGHWAY PERMITS:
   A   Holders of permits for work on highways owned or under the jurisdiction
of other government entities, but located within the City limits, shall not be
required to obtain permits from the City under the provisions of this Chapter,
unless the work extends beyond the back side of the curb, or beyond any other
designated jurisdictional boundary. Any City permit shall not be construed to
permit or allow work on a County road on a State highway within the City
without an applicable County or State permit.
   B   The City Manager, in his/her discretion, shall have the right and
authority to regulate work under permits issued by other governmental entities
with respect to hours and days of work, and measures required to be taken by
the permittee of said governmental entity for the protection of traffic and
safety of persons and property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this
Chapter shall be construed to impose any duty, implied or express, on the City
or its employees, officers, agents or assigns, relative to the protection of
traffic and safety of persons or property, arising out of the issuance of any
permit issued by government entities other than the City, or arising out of any
work performed on any public way owned or within the jurisdiction of the City.
(Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-10: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC WAYS:
   A   The City Manager may direct any person owning or maintaining facilities
or structures in the public way to alter, modify or relocate such facilities or
structures as the City Manager may require as set forth herein. Sewers, pipes,
drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe driveways, vaults, trash receptacles and
overhead and underground gas, electric, telephone, telecommunications and
communication facilities shall specifically be subject to such directives. The
person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures shall, at their own
cost and expense and upon reasonable written notice by the City, promptly
protect, or promptly alter or relocate such facilities or structures, or part
thereof, as directed by the City. In the event that such person refuses or
neglects to conform to the directive of the City, the City shall have the right
to break through, remove, alter or relocate such part of the facilities or
structures without liability to such person. Such person shall pay to the City
all costs incurred by the City in connection with such work performed by the
City, including also design, engineering, construction, materials, insurance,
court costs and attorney fees.
   B   Any directive by the City Manager shall be based upon the following:
      1   The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being
maintained contrary to law, or determined by the City Manager to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      2   The facility or structure constitutes a nuisance as defined under
State statute;
      3   The permit under which the facility or structure was installed has
expired or has been revoked;
      4   The public way is about to be repaired or improved and such
facilities or structures may pose a hindrance to construction; or
      5   The grades or lines of the public way are to be altered or changed.
   C   Any directive of the City Manager under this Section shall be under and
consistent with the City's police power. Unless an emergency condition exists,
the City Manager shall make a good faith effort to consult with the person
regarding any condition that may result in a removal or relocation of
facilities in the public way to consider possible avoidance or minimization of
removal or relocation requirements and provide the directive as far enough in
advance of the required removal or relocation to allow the person a reasonable
opportunity to plan and minimize cost associated with the required removal or
relocation.
   D   This obligation does not apply to facilities or structures originally
located on private property pursuant to a private easement, which property was
later incorporated into the public way, if that prior private easement grants a
superior vested right.
   E   Any person owning or maintaining facilities or structures in the public
way who fails to alter, modify or relocate such facilities or structures upon
notice to do so by the City Manager shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
All costs of alteration, modification or relocation shall be borne by the
person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures involved.
   F   The City may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster or other emergency,
as determined by the City in its reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts
of the system and appurtenances on, over or under the public way, in which
event the City shall not be liable therefor to a person. The City shall notify
a person in writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as
possible and in no case later than the next business day following any action
taken under this subsection. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-11: IMPACT OF EXCAVATION ON EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
   A   Temporary Improvement: If any sidewalk or curb ramp is blocked by
excavation work, a temporary sidewalk or curb ramp shall be constructed or
provided. Said temporary improvement shall be safe for travel and convenient
for users, and consistent with City standards for such.
   B   Temporary Surface: Where excavations are made in paved areas, the
surface shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface until such time as
the permanent repairs are completed.
   C   Disturbance Of Property:
      1   At any time a permittee disturbs the yard, residence or the real or
personal property of a private property owner or the City, such permittee shall
ensure that such property is returned, replaced and/or restored to a condition
that is comparable to the condition that existed prior to the commencement of
the work.
      2   The costs associated with the disturbance and the return, replacement
and/or restoration shall be borne by the permittee. Further, a permittee shall
reimburse a property owner or the City for any actual damage caused by the
permittee, its subcontractor, or its independent contractor, in connection with
the disturbance of such property. However, nothing in this subsection shall
require the permittee to pay a subscriber or private property owner when that
subscriber or private property owner requests that the permittee remove,
replace or relocate improvements associated with the service provided by the
permittee to the property owner and when the permittee exercises due care in
the performance of that service, or when the subscriber or private property
owner provided false information to the permittee on which the permittee relied
to its detriment.
   D   Examples: Examples of types of acts specifically included in this
Section are the following:
      1   Removal of sod, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, trees, driveways, or fence,
to install, trench, repair, replace, remove or locate equipment, cable or other
appurtenances of the permittee;
      2   Installation or removal of equipment or other appurtenances of the
permittee's system within a private property owner's property or residence
which requires drilling, excavating, plastering, or the like on the part of the
permittee;
      3   Temporarily relocating or moving a piece of personal property or a
fixture of a private property owner (such as a motor vehicle, fence, air
conditioning, heating unit, or the like) in order to perform some sort of
construction, maintenance or repair by the permittee; or
      4   Permanently removing a permittee's equipment or other appurtenances
due to the revocation, termination or nonrenewal of the franchise (if
applicable).
   E   Drainage: Existing drainage channels, such as gutters or ditches, shall
be kept free of dirt or other debris so that natural flow will not be
interrupted. When it is necessary to block or otherwise interrupt flow of the
drainage channel, a method of rerouting the flow must be submitted for approval
by the City Manager prior to the blockage of the channel.
   F   Extension Of Requirements: The requirements imposed upon the permittee
extend to any subcontractor or independent contractor that the permittee might
employ to perform the tasks pursuant to the permit.
   G   Exception: The requirement of this Section shall not apply to the
removal, by a permittee, of a permanent structure placed by a property owner in
a public way, unless such property owner has received prior written permission
from the City granting the property owner the right to install a permanent
structure on a public way, and such written permission has been recorded in the
office of the County Recorder. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-12: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A   The permittee shall, at its own expense, restore the surface of any
public way to its original condition and replace any removed or damaged
pavement with the same type and depth of pavement as that which is adjoining,
including the gravel base material. All restoration shall conform to the
regulations, design standards and specifications promulgated by the City and
shall be accomplished within the time limits set forth in the permit, unless
additional time is granted in writing by the City.
   B   At its option, the permittee doing the actual excavation work may
request that the City restore the surface to its original condition. The fee
for such resurfacing shall be determined by the City Manager in accordance with
its reasonable costs for such work and shall be charged to the person, firm, or
corporation making the excavation. Payment for said work shall be received by
the City prior to the release of the bond. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-
1998)
7-3-13: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A   Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall furnish to the City
evidence that such applicant has a comprehensive general liability and property
damage policy that includes contractual liability coverage endorsed with the
following limits and provisions or with such alternative limits and provisions
as may be approved by the City:
      1   A minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single
limit per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage,
and not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate. The
general aggregate limit shall apply separately to the permit, or the general
aggregate limit shall be two (2) times the required occurrence limit. The
coverage shall be in the nature of Broad Form Commercial General Liability
coverage. The City Attorney may increase or decrease minimum insurance limits,
depending on the potential liability of any project.
      2   All policies shall include the City, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers and assigns as insured. Any reference to the
"City" shall include the City, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers and assigns.
      3   The coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the City, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers, and assigns. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the City, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers, and assigns shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance
and shall not contribute to or with it.
      4   Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall
not effect coverage provided to the City, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers, and assigns.
      5   Coverage shall state that the permittee's insurance shall apply
separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought,
except with respect to the limits of the insurer's liability.
      6   Underwriters shall have no right of recovery or subrogation against
the City, it being the intent of the parties that the insurance policy so
affected shall protect both parties and be primary coverage for any and all
losses covered by the described insurance.
      7   The insurance companies issuing the policy or policies shall have no
recourse against the City for payment of any premiums due or for any
assessments under any form of any policy.
      8   Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to state that the coverage
shall not be suspended, voided, canceled, or reduced in coverage or in limits,
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, sent to the City.
      9   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, save harmless and defend
the City and its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or
expense sustained on account of damages to persons or property occurring by
reason of permit work done by permittee, his/her subcontractor or agent,
whether or not the work has been completed and whether or not the right of way
has been opened to public travel.
      10   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, hold harmless and defend
the City, and its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or
expense sustained by any person occurring by reason of doing any work pursuant
to the permit including, but not limited to, falling objects or failure to
maintain proper barricades and/or lights as required from the time work begins
until the work is completed and right of way is opened for public use.
   B   Insurance is to be placed with insurers with an AM Best rating of no
less than an A carrier, with a rating of "7" or higher.
   C   The permittee shall furnish the City with certificates of insurance and
original endorsements affecting coverage required by the permit. The
certificates and endorsements for each insurance policy are to be signed by a
person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its behalf. The City
expressly reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all
required insurance policies at any time. Consequently, the permittee shall be
prepared to provide such copies prior to the issuance of the permit.
   D   If any of the required policies are, or at any time become,
unsatisfactory to the City as to form or substance, or if a company issuing any
such policy is, or at any time becomes, unsatisfactory to the City, the
permittee shall promptly obtain a new policy, submit the same to the City for
approval, and thereafter submit verification of coverage as required by the
City. Upon failure to furnish, deliver and maintain such insurance as provided
herein, the City may declare the permit to be in default and pursue any and all
remedies the City may have at law or in equity, including those actions
outlined in this Chapter.
   E   The permittee shall include all subcontractors as insured under its
policies or shall furnish separate certificates and endorsements for each
subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be subject to all of the
requirements stated herein.
   F   Any deductibles or self-insured retentions shall be declared to and
approved by the City. At the option of the City, either the insurer shall
reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as respects the
City, its employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers or assigns, or the
permittee shall procure a bond, in a form acceptable to the City, guaranteeing
payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense
expenses.
   G   A property owner performing work adjacent to his/her residence may
submit proof of a homeowner's insurance policy in lieu of the insurance
requirements of this Section.
   H   A provider may be relieved of the obligation of submitting certificates
of insurance under the following circumstances:
      1   If such company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that:
         a   It is insured in the amounts set forth in this Chapter, or has
complied with State requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may
submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of individual
submissions for each permit; and
         b   Said coverage provides to the City the same scope of coverage that
would otherwise be provided by a separate policy as required by this Chapter;
or
      2   The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant is
to be performed by the City, in which case insurance or other risk transfer
issues shall be negotiated between the City and the applicant by separate
agreement. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-14: BOND; WHEN REQUIRED, CONDITIONS, WARRANTY:
   A   Except as noted in this Chapter, each applicant, before being issued a
permit, shall provide the City with an acceptable security (this may include a
corporate surety bond, cash bond or letter of credit, as determined by the
City) in an amount established by resolution of the City Council, to guarantee
faithful performance of the work authorized by a permit granted pursuant to
this Chapter. The amount of the security required may be increased or decreased
at the discretion of the City Manager whenever it appears that the amount and
cost of the work to be performed, and not satisfactorily completed, may vary
from the amount of security otherwise required by this Chapter. The form of the
security and the entity issuing the security shall be subject to the approval
of the City Attorney.
   B   Public utilities franchised by the City shall not be required to file
any security if such requirement is expressly waived in the franchise
documents.
   C   The security required by this Section shall be conditioned as follows:
      1   That the permittee shall fully comply with the requirements of the
City ordinances and regulations, specifications and standards promulgated by
the City relative to work in the public way, and respond to the City in damages
for failure to conform therewith;
      2   That after work is commenced, the permittee shall proceed with
diligence and expedition and shall promptly complete such work and restore the
public way to construction specifications, so as not to obstruct the public
place or travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary;
      3   That the permittee shall guarantee the materials and workmanship for
a period of two (2) years from completion of such work, with reasonable wear
and tear excepted; and
      4   That unless authorized by the City Manager on the permit, all paving,
resurfacing or replacement of street facilities on major or collector streets
shall be done in conformance with the regulations contained herein within three
(3) calendar days, and within seven (7) calendar days from the time the
excavation commences on all other streets, except as provided for during
excavation in winter or during weather conditions which do not allow paving
according to regulations. In winter, a temporary patch must be provided. In all
excavations, restoration of pavement surfaces shall be made immediately after
backfilling is completed or concrete is cured. If work is expected to exceed
the above duration, the permittee shall submit a detailed construction schedule
for approval. The schedule will address means and methods to minimize traffic
disruption and complete the construction as soon as reasonably possible. (Ord.
1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-15: HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT; LIMITATIONS ON CITY LIABILITY:
   A   The permittee agrees to save the City, its officers, employees and
agents harmless from any and all costs, damages and liabilities which may
accrue or be claimed to accrue by reason of any work performed under the
permit. The issuance and acceptance of any permit under this Chapter shall
constitute such an agreement by the permittee to this Section.
   B   This Chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon the City, its
officers, employees and agents, any liability or responsibility for damages to
any person injured by, or by reason of the performance of, any work within the
public way, or under a permit issued pursuant to this Chapter; nor shall the
City, its officers, officials, employees, agents, volunteers or assigns thereof
be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility by reason of
inspection authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit, or the approval of
any work. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-16: WORK WITHOUT PERMIT; PENALTY:
   A   A stop order may be issued by the City directed to any person or persons
doing or causing any work to be done in the public way without a permit. The
abutting property owner shall be responsible for causing work to be done.
   B   Any person found to be doing work in the public way without having
obtained a permit, as provided in this Chapter, shall be required to pay a
permit fee equal to two (2) times the normal permit fee. For replacement work,
where a fee is not normally charged, the normal permit fee for new construction
shall apply. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-17: FAILURE TO COMPLY; DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE:
   A   Any permit may be revoked or suspended and a stop order issued by the
City, after notice to the permittee for:
      1   Violation of any condition of the permit, the security, or of any
provision of this Chapter;
      2   Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the City or law
relating to the work; or
      3   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act which does
constitute, may constitute, or cause a condition endangering life or property.
   B   A suspension or revocation by the City, and a stop order, shall take
effect immediately upon entry thereof by the City Manager and notice to the
person performing the work in the public way. Notice to the person performing
the work shall be accomplished when the City has posted a stop work order at
the location of the work and written notice has been mailed, return receipt
requested, to the address indicated by the permittee on the permit.
   C   Whenever the City finds that a default has occurred in the performance
of any term or condition of the permit, written notice thereof may be given to
the principal and to the surety on the bond, if there is a surety bond. Such
notice shall state the work to be done, the estimated cost thereof, and the
period of time deemed by the City to be reasonably necessary for the completion
of the work.
   D   In the event that the surety (or principal), within a reasonable time
following the giving of such notice (taking into consideration the exigencies
of the situation, the nature of the work, the requirements of public safety and
for the protection of persons and property), fails either to commence and cause
the required work to be performed with due diligence, or to indemnify the City
for the cost of doing the work, as set forth in the notice, the City may
perform the work, at the discretion of the City Manager, with City forces or
contract forces or both, and suit may be commenced by the City Attorney against
the contractor and bonding company and such other persons as may be liable, to
recover the entire amount due to the City, including attorney fees, on account
thereof. In the event that cash has been deposited, the cost of performing the
work may be charged against the amount deposited, and suit brought for the
balance due, if any. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-18: FAILURE TO CONFORM TO DESIGN STANDARDS; PENALTY:
For failure to conform to the design standards and regulations, the City may:
   A   Suspend or revoke the permit;
   B   Issue a stop order;
   C   Order removal and replacement of faulty work;
   D   Require an extended warranty period; and/or
   E   Negotiate a cash settlement to be applied toward future maintenance
costs. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-19: APPEAL OF SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, OR STOP ORDER:
Any suspension, revocation or stop order by the City may be appealed by the
permittee to the City Council by filing a written notice of appeal within ten
(10) days of the action of the City. The City Council shall hear such appeal,
if written request therefor is timely filed, as soon as practicable, and render
their decision within a reasonable time following filing of notice of appeal.
(Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-20: TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly or without
authorization and legal cause, extinguish, remove or diminish any light
illuminating any barricade or excavation, or to tear down, remove or in any
manner alter any rail, fence or barricade protecting any excavation or other
construction site. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-21: CONFLICT WITH GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this Chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance, agreement, franchise, or other document
governing the excavation of a public way, the more restrictive provisions of
the aforesaid documents shall apply. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-3-22: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this Chapter, a violation of any provision of
this Chapter, or failure to comply with an order of suspension, revocation or
stop work, shall be a Class B misdemeanor. Each day the violation exists shall
be a separate offense. No criminal conviction shall excuse the person from
otherwise complying with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 1997-4, 12-10-
1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
CHAPTER 4
STREET NAMING AND BUILDING NUMBERING
SECTION:
7-4-1: Uniform Numbering System Established
7-4-2: Base Lines For Dividing City
7-4-3: Basis For Assigning Numbers
7-4-4: Buildings Facing Unextended Streets
7-4-5: Directional Designation
7-4-6: Duties Of Zoning Administrator
7-4-7: Approval For New Streets
7-4-8: Changing, Renaming Or Naming Existing Streets
7-4-9: Number Assignment Placement
7-4-10: Penalty
7-4-1: UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a uniform system for numbering buildings fronting
on all streets, avenues and public ways in the City and all houses and other
buildings shall be numbered in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 90-2, 5-16-1989)
7-4-2: BASE LINES FOR DIVIDING CITY:
   A   North And South: Central Street, which is U.S. Highway 666 east of Main
Street, shall constitute the base line which will divide the City into northern
and southern parts. Hereafter, all streets north of this base line and running
generally in a northerly-southerly direction, shall be considered "north"
streets, and likewise, all streets south of this base line and running in a
generally northerly-southerly direction shall be considered "south" streets.
      1   Each building north of Central Street and facing a street running in
a northerly direction shall carry a number and address indicating its location
north of such base street.
      2   Each building south of Central Street and facing a street in a
southerly direction shall carry a number and address indicating its location
south of such base street.
   B   East And West: Main Street, which is U.S. Highway 191, shall be
considered the base line which divides the City into east and west parts.
Hereafter, streets east of this base line and running in a generally easterly-
westerly direction shall be considered "east" streets and likewise, streets
west of and running in a generally easterly-westerly direction shall be
considered "west" streets.
      1   Each building east of main street and facing a street running in an
easterly direction shall carry a number and address indicating its location
east of such base street.
      2   Each building west of Main Street and facing a street running in a
westerly direction shall carry a number and address indicating its location
west of such base street.
   C   Diagonal Streets: All buildings on diagonal streets shall be numbered
the same as buildings on northerly and southerly streets if the diagonal runs
more from the north to the south, and the same rule shall apply on easterly and
westerly streets if the diagonal runs more from east to west. (Ord. 90-2, 5-16-
1989)
7-4-3: BASIS FOR ASSIGNING NUMBERS:
   A   Begin At Base Line: The numbering of buildings on such streets shall
begin at the base line. All buildings on the left-hand side of the street,
starting at the base line streets of Central and Main, shall bear odd numbers
and likewise, all buildings on the right-hand side, starting at the base line
streets of Central and Main, shall bear even numbers.
   B   One Number Assigned; Exception: Only one number shall be assigned to
each lot except that large parcels of property not divided into lots may be
assigned more than one number. Where cross streets do not exist, numbers will
be assigned as if the cross streets did exist, on the same basis as in other
areas where the cross streets do exist.
   C   Multiple-Family Dwellings And Duplex Houses:
      1   A multiple-family dwelling having only one main street entrance shall
be assigned only one number, and separate apartments in the building will carry
letter or number designations in addition to the number assigned to the main
entrance of the building.
      2   Any duplex houses having two (2) front entrances shall have a
separate number for each entrance. If both entrances fall within the same
increment, either the preceding number or the next higher number shall be used
for one entrance number, and the interval used for one entrance number and the
interval number in which the entrances fall shall be used for the other
entrance. (Ord. 90-2, 5-16-1989)
7-4-4: BUILDINGS FACING UNEXTENDED STREETS:
All buildings facing streets not extending through to the base line shall be
assigned the same relative numbers as if the street had extended to the base
line. (Ord. 90-2, 5-16-1989)
7-4-5: DIRECTIONAL DESIGNATION:
In addition to the numbers placed on each house or other building as heretofore
provided, all streets, avenues and other public ways within the City are hereby
given the following directional designation:
   A   North Streets: All streets north of Central Street and running in a
northerly direction shall include "north" in the street name.
   B   South Streets: All streets south of Central Street and running in a
southerly direction shall include "south" in the street name.
   C   East Streets: All streets east of Main Street and running in an easterly
direction shall include "east" in the street name.
   D   West Streets: All streets west of Main Street and running in a westerly
direction shall include "west" in the street name. (Ord. 90-2, 5-16-1989)
7-4-6: DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A   Inform Applicant Of Numbers: It shall be the duty of the Zoning
Administrator to inform any applicant of the number or numbers belonging to or
embraced within the City limits of any such lot or property as provided in this
Chapter. In case of conflict as to the property number to be assigned to any
building, the Zoning Administrator shall determine the number of such
buildings. Final approval of any structure erected, repaired, altered or
modified shall be withheld by the Planning Commission until permanent and
proper numbers have been affixed to such structure.
   B   Maintain Plat Book: A plat book of all streets, avenues and public ways
within the City, showing the proper number of all houses or other buildings
fronting upon all streets, avenues or public ways, shall be kept on file in the
City office. These plats shall be open to inspection by any person during the
offices hours of the City office. Duplicate copies of such plats shall be
furnished to the City Engineer and the Planning Commission. (Ord. 90-2, 5-16-
1989; 1996 Code)
7-4-7: APPROVAL FOR NEW STREETS:
Any person submitting a subdivision plat to the Planning Commission or to the
City Council for their approval shall show the proper names of any and all
streets and these street designations shall be approved by the Planning
Commission or by the City Council, before such new streets are officially
named. Street name suggestions may originate with the parties submitting the
plat under the guidance of the City Manager, Recorder/Clerk, or other City
Council designee. (Ord. 90-2, 5-16-1989; 1996 Code)
7-4-8: CHANGING, RENAMING OR NAMING EXISTING STREETS:
The City Council may, by resolution, change, rename or name an existing or
newly established street within the limits of the City at any time upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City Manager or Zoning
Administrator. (Ord. 90-2, 5-16-1989; 1996 Code)
7-4-9: NUMBER ASSIGNMENT PLACEMENT:
   A   Required: The Zoning Administrator shall assign to each house and other
residential or commercial buildings located on any street, avenue or public way
in the City, its respective number under the uniform system provided for in
this Chapter. When each house or building has been assigned its respective
number or numbers, the owner, occupant or agent shall place or cause the number
to be placed thereon.
   B   Within Thirty Days: Such numbers shall be placed on all appropriate
existing buildings within thirty (30) days after the assignment and
notification of a permanent number. The numbers used shall not be less than
three inches (3") in height and shall be made of a durable and clearly visible
material.
   C   Conspicuously Placed: The numbers shall be conspicuously placed so that
the number can be seen plainly from the street line. Whenever any building is
situated more than fifty feet (50') from the street line, the numbers shall
appear near the walk, driveway or entrance to such buildings so as to be easily
discernible from the sidewalk. (Ord. 90-2, 5-16-1989; 1996 Code)
7-4-10: PENALTY:
Any person required hereunder to place a number on their home or other building
who fails to do so shall be guilty of an infraction and upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate
offense publishable as hereinabove described. (Ord. 90-2, 5-16-1989; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC PROPERTY CONTROL AND USE
SECTION:
7-5-1: Unlawful Use
7-5-2: Repair After Unlawful Use
7-5-3: Unlawful Acts
7-5-4: Franchise; Easement
7-5-5: Acts Exempted
7-5-1: UNLAWFUL USE:
Unless authorized by an encroachment permit or other written authorization
issued by the City or unless authority is granted by provisions of this Code or
other ordinance of the City now or hereafter enacted, it shall be a Class B
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code for any person to:
   A   Property Controlled By City: Construct, lay, excavate, erect, operate or
maintain over, under, across, in or through any property owned or controlled by
the City, any utility, canal, ditch, construction or building.
   B   Restricted Areas: Enter upon any property of the City contrary to any
posting or marking restricting or prohibiting use of the area.
   C   Damage To Property: Intentionally use or perform acts upon property of
the City which materially impairs, alters, or damages the property. (1978 Code
§ 8-111; 1996 Code)
7-5-2: REPAIR AFTER UNLAWFUL USE:
The City Council, in addition to any other penalty which may be imposed, may
order any person who has damaged, altered or changed any property of the City
to repair or restore the property to its original condition prior to the
damage, alteration or change and shall be entitled to seek civil damages to
compensate for such damage, alteration or change, including costs of recovering
such damages. (1978 Code § 8-112)
7-5-3: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A   Defined: For the purpose of this Section, "public property" means any
publicly owned property, except the traveled portion of public streets, and
includes any park, sidewalk, curb or any part of any public right of way
devoted to any planting or park like use. (1978 Code § 13-351)
   B   On Public Property: On any public property it is unlawful for any person
to:
      1   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace or
remove any building, railing, bench, paving, paving material, water line or any
facilities or property and equipment of any public utilities or parts or
appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers, wall or rock
border, or other structures or equipment, facilities or public property or
appurtenances whatever, either real or personal.
      2   Soil or litter public restrooms and washrooms.
      3   Dig and remove any sand, soil, rock, stones, trees, shrubs, or
plants, down timber or other wood or materials, or make any excavation by tool,
equipment, blasting or other means or agency, unless permission is obtained.
      4   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind,
whether permanent or temporary in character, any tent, fly or windbreak, or run
or string any rope, cord or wire into, upon or across any public property,
except with special permit.
      5   Urinate or defecate, except in a public restroom in receptacles
placed there for such purpose.
      6   Damage, cut, carve, burn, transplant or remove any tree or plant or
injure the bark or pick the flowers or seeds of any tree or plant. No person
shall attach any rope, wire or other contrivance to any tree or plant. No
person shall dig in or otherwise disturb, or in any other way injure or impair
the natural beauty or usefulness of any park area. This subsection shall not
apply to any person authorized to perform the act proscribed.
      7   Climb any tree or walk, stand or sit on monuments, fountains,
railings, fences, planted areas or upon any other property not designed or
customarily used for such purposes or to intentionally stand, sit or lie in or
upon any street, sidewalk, stairway or crosswalk so as to prevent free passage
of persons or vehicles passing over, along or across any street, sidewalk,
stairway or crosswalk.
      8   Drop, throw, place, discard, dump, leave or otherwise deposit any
bottles, broken glass, garbage, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish,
waste, refuse or other trash on any public property except in waste containers
provided therefor. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters
contiguous to any park or planted area or left anywhere on the grounds thereof.
      9   Sleep on seats, benches, sidewalks, curbs, planters, walls or other
areas.
      10   Expose or offer for sale any article or thing or station or place
any stand, cart or vehicle for the transportation, sale or display of any such
article or thing, without first obtaining a license, except that the City
Council may exempt designated areas, sales or other activities from this
subsection by resolution on such terms and conditions as it may prescribe.
      11   To beg or to go from door to door of private homes or commercial and
business establishments or place himself in or upon any public way or public
place to beg or to receive money or other things of value. (1978 Code § 13-352;
1996 Code)
7-5-4: FRANCHISE; EASEMENT:
   A   Provisions: The City Council may grant to any person a franchise or
easement on such terms and conditions as it deems reasonable, for the purpose
of entering upon, constructing, building, operating and maintaining any
business or for other use of the property of the City and the provisions of
Sections
7-5-1 and
7-5-2 shall not apply to the extent such provisions are waived, qualified or
made inapplicable to the rights or privileges granted in the franchise
ordinance or easement.
   B   In Writing: Any franchise or easement granted by the City shall be in
writing and any franchise or easement not in writing shall be void. (1978 Code
§ 8-113)
7-5-5: ACTS EXEMPTED:
It shall not be a violation of this Chapter where any person uses the public
property of the City in the manner or for the purpose for which such property
has been made available for public use. (1978 Code § 8-114)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC PARKS AND LOYD'S LAKE AREA
SECTION:
7-6-1: Curfew
7-6-2: Prohibited Activities
7-6-1: CURFEW:
No person shall be or remain within any of the public parks within the City
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
the following day, or within the Loyd's Lake area between the hours of twelve
o’clock (12:00) Midnight and five o’clock (5:00) A.M. This restriction shall
not apply to persons charged with maintenance of City parks, or to persons
engaged in school, civic or church functions within the park after written
notice thereof to the City Manager or the Chief of Police. (Ord. 88-2, 7-6-
1988; 1996 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-5, 10-8-2019, eff. 10-8-2019)
7-6-2: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Public Parks: The following activities are prohibited in any public
park within the City:
      1.   Consumption of alcoholic beverages.
      2.   Operation of all-terrain vehicles or off-road vehicles.
      3.   Building fires except in designated fire pits.
      4.   Discharge of firearms.
      5.   Shooting of arrows.
      6.   Discharge of fireworks, except by authorized persons in conjunction
with the regulations set forth in subsection
4-3-3D of this Code.
      7.   Theft or vandalism of property of the City.
      8.   Destruction of property.
   B.   Loyd's Lake Area: Those activities prohibited in subsection
7-6-2A above shall also apply to the Loyd's Lake Area. Other prohibited
activities, which are specific to Loyd's Lake Area, are as follows:
      1.   Swimming by persons under the age of sixteen (16) unless accompanied
by an adult.
      2.   Operation of any motorized watercraft, with the exception of
electric trolling motors, without first obtaining authorization of the City
Council.
      3.   Riding of bicycles on walking paths, with the exception of the areas
where the bicycle trail around Loyd's Lake shares the walking path. These areas
are marked with signage.
      4.   Riding of motorcycles, ATVs or other motorized vehicles on walking
paths or other areas within the recreation site not specifically designed for
motor vehicle use.
      5.   Hunting.
      6.   Overnight camping.
   C.   Penalty; Impoundment of Prohibited Vehicles: Violation of any provision
of this Section shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code. All terrain or off-road vehicles operated in violation of
subsection
7-6-2A above shall be impounded. The vehicles shall not be released from
impoundment until after payment of the appropriate storage fee. (Ord. 88-2, 7-
6-1988; 1996 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-5, 10-8-2019, eff. 10-8-2019)
CHAPTER 7
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-7-1: Title
7-7-2: Purpose
7-7-3: Declaration Of Intent; Scope Of Ordinance
7-7-4: Definitions
7-7-5: Franchise Required
7-7-6: Compensation And Other Payments
7-7-7: Franchise Applications
7-7-8: Construction And Technical Requirements
7-7-9: Franchise And License Nontransferable
7-7-10: Oversight And Regulation
7-7-11: Rights Of City
7-7-12: Obligation To Notify
7-7-13: General Provisions
7-7-14: Federal, State And City Jurisdiction
7-7-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHTS OF WAY ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-7-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide the basic local scheme for providers
of telecommunications services and systems that require the use of rights of
way. (Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-7-3: DECLARATION OF INTENT; SCOPE OF ORDINANCE:
   A   Power To Manage Rights Of Way: The City hereby adopts this
Telecommunications Ordinance pursuant to its power to manage the rights of way,
pursuant to common law, the Utah constitution and statutory authority, and to
receive fair and reasonable compensation for the use of rights of way by
providers as expressly set forth by section 253 of the Act 1 .
   B   Scope Of Ordinance: This Chapter shall provide the basic local scheme
for providers of telecommunications services and systems that require the use
of the rights of way, including providers of both the system and service, those
providers of the system only, and those providers who do not build the system
but who only provide services. This Chapter shall apply to all future providers
and to all providers in the City prior to the effective date of this Chapter,
whether operating with or without a franchise as set forth in subsection
7-7-14B of this Chapter.
   C   Excluded Activity:
      1   Cable TV: This Chapter shall not apply to cable television operators
otherwise regulated by Ordinance 1980-1 (Granting a Franchise to Construct,
Operate and Maintain a Cable Television System) and Resolution 12-1995
(Granting Five-Year Extension of Franchise to Operate Cable TV System).
      2   Wireless Services: This Chapter shall not apply to personal wireless
service facilities.
      3   Provisions Applicable To Exclude Providers: Providers excused by
other law that prohibits the City from requiring a franchise shall not be
required to obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this
Chapter through the exercise of the City's police power and not preempted by
other law shall be applicable. (Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. Telecommunications Act of 1996, P.L. No. 104-104.
7-7-4: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this Section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
"shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
APPLICATION: The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates a
desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the rights of way of all, or a
part, of the City. An application includes all written documentation, verbal
statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a provider
to the City concerning: the construction of a telecommunications system over,
under, on or through the rights of way; the telecommunications services
proposed to be provided in the City by a provider; and any other matter
pertaining to a proposed system or service.
CITY: The City of Monticello, Utah.
COMPLETION DATE: The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers in the City.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS: All costs of constructing a system, including make-ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney or accountant fees, or other
consulting fees.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert, of more
than twenty five percent (25%) of any provider (which person or group of
persons is hereinafter referred to as "controlling person"). "Control" or
"controlling interest" as used herein may be held simultaneously by more than
one person or group of persons.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission, or any successor thereto.
FRANCHISE: The rights and obligation extended by the City to a provider to own,
lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a system in the rights of way within
the boundaries of the City. Any such authorization, in whatever form granted,
shall not mean or include: a) any other permit or authorization required for
the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the City
required by the ordinances and laws of the City; b) any other permit, agreement
or authorization required in connection with operations on rights of way or
public property including, without limitation, permits and agreements for
placing devices on or in poles, conduits or other structures, whether owned by
the City or a private entity, or for excavating or performing other work in or
along the rights of way.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A contract entered into in accordance with the provisions
of this Chapter between the City and a franchisee that sets forth, subject to
this Chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will be
exercised.
GROSS REVENUE: Includes all revenues of a provider that may be included as
gross revenue within the meaning of title 11, chapter 26, Utah Code Annotated,
1953, as amended.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the rights of way.
OPEN VIDEO SERVICE: Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights of way, by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to section 651 et seq., of the
Telecommunications Act (to be codified at 47 USC title VI, part V), regardless
of the system used.
OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM: The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides,
optic fiber, microwave, laser beams, and any associated converters, equipment,
or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
amplifying or distributing open video services to or from subscribers or
locations within the City.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more persons owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
ORDINANCE OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE: This Telecommunications Ordinance
concerning the granting of franchises in and by the City for the construction,
ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
PSC: The Public Service Commission, or any successor thereto.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust, or any other legal entity, but not the City.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES: Has the same meaning as provided in
section 704 of the Act (47 USC 332(c)(7)(c)), which includes what is commonly
known as cellular and PCS services that do not install any system or portion of
a system in the rights of way.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, resaler, or system lessee.
RESALER: Refers to any person that provides local exchange service over a
system for which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or
lease the underlying system used for the transmission.
RIGHTS OF WAY: The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or hereafter
existing as such within the City.
SIGNAL: Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or laser
or radio frequency energy or optical information in either analog or digital
format.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by the
user, of information of the user's choosing (e.g., data, video and voice),
without change in the form or content of the information sent and received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE(S) OR SERVICES: Any telecommunications services
provided by a provider within the City that the provider is authorized to
provide under Federal, State and local law, and any equipment and/or facilities
required for and integrated with the services provided within the City, except
that these terms do not include "cable service" as defined in the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 USC section 521 et seq.), and the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a provider, located in the rights of
way and utilized in the provision of services, including fully digital or
analog, voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced telecommunications
services. "Telecommunications system or systems" also includes an open video
system.
WIRE: Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
(Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-7-5: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
   A   Nonexclusive Franchise: The City is empowered and authorized to issue
nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction, and
maintenance of systems in the City's rights of way, in accordance with the
provision of this Chapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the City and the provider.
   B   Every Provider Must Obtain: Except to the extent preempted by Federal or
State law, as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including any appeals, every provider must obtain a franchise prior to
constructing a telecommunications system or providing telecommunications
services using the rights of way, and every provider must obtain a franchise
before constructing an open video system or providing open video services via
an open video system. Any open video system or service shall be subject to the
customer service and consumer protection provisions applicable to the Cable TV
companies to the extent the City is not preempted or permitted as ultimately
interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction, including any appeals. The
fact that particular telecommunications systems may be used for multiple
purposes does not obviate the need to obtain a franchise for other purposes. By
way of illustration and not limitation, a cable operator of a cable system must
obtain a cable franchise and, should it intend to provide telecommunications
services over the same system, must also obtain a telecommunications franchise.
   C   Nature Of Grant: A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or legal,
in the rights of way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights of way on
a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period stated
in the franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned, or subleased. A
franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate access or pole
attachment agreements before collocating its system on the property of others,
including the City's property. This Section shall not be construed to prohibit
a provider from leasing conduit to another provider, so long as the lessee has
obtained a franchise.
   D   Current Providers: Except to the extent exempted by Federal or State
law, any provider acting without a franchise on the effective date of this
Chapter shall request issuance of a franchise from the City within ninety (90)
days of the effective date of this Chapter. If such request is made, the
provider may continue providing service during the course of negotiations. If a
timely request is not made, or if negotiations cease and a franchise is not
granted, the provider shall comply with the provisions of subsection
7-7-11D of this Chapter.
   E   Nature Of Franchise: The franchise granted by the City under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise providing the
right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove and replace its system
on, over and under the rights of way in order to provide services.
   F   Regulatory Approval Needed: Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of
such services from the appropriate Federal, State and local authorities, if
required, and shall submit to the City, upon the written request of the City,
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
   G   Term: No franchise issued pursuant to this Chapter shall have a term of
less than five (5) years or greater than fifteen (15) years. Each franchise
shall be granted in a nondiscriminatory manner. (Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-1997, eff.
1-1-1998)
7-7-6: COMPENSATION AND OTHER PAYMENTS:
   A   Compensation: As fair and reasonable compensation for any franchise
granted pursuant to this Chapter, a provider shall have the following
obligations:
      1   Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the City to review an
application for a franchise, and in addition to all other fees, permits or
charges, a provider shall pay to the City, at the time of application, a
nonrefundable application fee as set forth in the franchise agreement.
      2   Franchise Fees: The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the
franchise agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence on
the completion date.
      3   Excavation Permits: The provider shall also pay fees required for an
excavation permit, as provided in Resolution 1996-24.
   B   Timing: Unless otherwise agreed to in the franchise agreement, all
franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within forty five (45) days of
the close of each calendar month.
   C   Fee Statement And Certification: Unless a franchise agreement provides
otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the
manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to its
accuracy.
   D   Future Costs: A provider shall pay to the City or to third parties, at
the direction of the City, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and
reasonable expenses that the City incurs for the services of third parties
(including, but not limited to, attorneys and other consultants) in connection
with any renewal or provider-initiated renegotiation, or amendment of this
Chapter or a franchise; provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon a
reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations. In the event the
parties are unable to agree, either party may submit the issue to binding
arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of the American
Arbitration Association.
   E   Taxes And Assessments: To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities, other than the City on the use of the City
property as a result of a provider's use or occupation of the rights of way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
Chapter.
   F   Interest On Late Payments: In the event that any payment is not actually
received by the City on or before the applicable date fixed in the franchise,
interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the rate charged
for delinquent State taxes.
   G   No Accord And Satisfaction: No acceptance by the City of any fee shall
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount,
nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any
claim the City may have for additional sums payable.
   H   Not In Lieu Of Other Taxes Or Fees: The fee payment is not a payment in
lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment except as specifically provided in
this Chapter, or as required by applicable law. By way of example, and not
limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the City- owned
poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   I   Continuing Obligation And Holdover: In the event a provider continues to
operate all or any part of the system after the term of the franchise, such
operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions of this
Chapter and the franchise, including, without limitation, all compensation and
other payment provisions throughout the period of such continued operation,
provided that any such continued operation shall in no way be construed as a
renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a limitation on the
remedies, if any, available to the City as a result of such continued operation
after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and restitution.
   J   Costs Of Publication: A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise that may be required by law. (Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-
1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-7-7: FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS:
   A   Franchise Application: To obtain a franchise to construct, own, maintain
or provide services through any system within the City, to obtain a renewal of
a franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter, or to obtain the City approval of
a transfer of a franchise, as provided in subsection
7-7-9A2 of this Chapter, granted pursuant to this Chapter, an application must
be filed with the City on the form attached to Ordinance 1997-2 as Exhibit A,
which is hereby incorporated by reference. The application form may be changed
by the City Manager, so long as such changes request information that is
consistent with this Chapter. Such application form, as amended, is
incorporated by reference.
   B   Application Criteria: In making a determination as to an application
filed pursuant to this Chapter, the City may, but shall not be limited to,
request the following from the provider:
      1   A copy of the order from the PSC granting a certificate of
convenience and necessity;
      2   Certification of the provider's financial ability to compensate the
City for provider's intrusion, maintenance and use of the rights of way during
the franchise term proposed by the provider.
      3   Provider's agreement to comply with the requirements of Section
7-7-8 of this Chapter.
   C   Franchise Determination: The City, in its discretion, shall determine
the award of any franchise on the basis of these and other considerations
relevant to the use of the rights of way, without competitive bidding. (Ord.
1997-2, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-7-8: CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A   General Requirement: No provider shall receive a franchise unless it
agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this Section governing
construction and technical requirements for its system, in addition to any
other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the City or the
franchise, including requirements regarding locating and sharing in the cost of
locating portions of the system with other systems or with City utilities. A
provider shall obtain an excavation permit, pursuant to the Excavation
Ordinance, before commencing any work in the rights of way.
   B   Quality: All work involved in the construction, maintenance, repair,
upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a safe, thorough and
reliable manner using materials of good and durable quality. If, at any time,
it is determined by the FCC or any other agency granted authority by Federal
law or the FCC to make such determination, that any part of the system,
including, without limitation, any means used to distribute signals over or
within the system, is harmful to the public health, safety, or welfare, or
quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   C   Licenses And Permits: A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or
other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, maintain,
upgrade or repair the system, including, but not limited to, any necessary
approvals from persons and/or the City to use private property, easements,
poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval or authorization, including, but not limited to, excavation permits,
pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the commencement of the activity for
which the permit, license, approval or authorization is required.
   D   Relocation Of The System:
      1   New Grades Or Lines: If the grades or lines of any rights of way are
changed at any time in a manner affecting the system, then a provider shall
comply with the requirements of the Excavation Ordinance.
      2   City Authority To Move System In Case Of Emergency: The City may, at
any time, in case of fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the
City in its reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and
appurtenances on, over or under the rights of way of the City, in which event
the City shall not be liable therefor to a provider. The City shall notify a
provider in writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as
possible and in no case later than the next business day following any action
taken under this Section. Notice shall be given as provided in subsection
7-7-13D of this Chapter.
      3   Provider Required To Temporarily Move System For Third Party: A
provider shall, upon prior reasonable written notice by the City or any person
holding a permit to move any structure, and within the time that is reasonable
under the circumstances, temporarily move any part of its system to permit the
moving of said structure. A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any
person other than the City for any such movement of its systems.
      4   Rights-Of-Way Change; Obligation To Move System: When the City is
changing a rights of way and makes a written request, a provider is required to
move or remove its system from the rights of way, without cost to the City, to
the extent provided in the Excavation Ordinance. This obligation does not apply
to systems originally located on private property pursuant to a private
easement, which property was later incorporated into the rights of way, if that
private easement grants a superior vested right. This obligation exists whether
or not the provider has obtained an excavation permit.
   E   Responsibility To Protect Structures: In connection with the
construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider
shall, at its own cost and expense, protect any and all existing structures
belonging to the City. A provider shall obtain the prior written consent of the
City to alter any water main, power facility, sewerage or drainage system, or
any other Municipal structure on, over or under the rights of way of the City
required because of the presence of the system. Any such alteration shall be
made by the City or its designee on a reimbursable basis. A provider agrees
that it shall be liable for the costs incurred by the City to replace or repair
and restore to its prior condition in a manner as may be reasonably specified
by the City, any Municipal structure or any other rights of way of the City
involved in the construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the
system that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of any work thereon by
or on behalf of a provider pursuant to the franchise.
   F   No Obstruction: In connection with the construction, maintenance,
upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not unreasonably
obstruct the rights of way of fixed guide way systems, passenger travel, or
other traffic to, from or within the City without the prior consent of the
appropriate authorities.
   G   Safety Precautions: A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. A provider shall comply
with all applicable Federal, State and local requirements including, but not
limited to, the National Electrical Safety Code.
   H   Repair: After written reasonable notice to the provider unless, in the
sole determination of the City, an eminent danger exists, any rights of way
within the City which are disturbed or damaged during the construction,
maintenance or reconstruction by a provider of its system may be repaired by
the City at the provider's expense, to a condition as good as that prevailing
before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the City shall submit to such a
provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and restoring the
rights of way intruded upon. The provider shall, within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the statement, pay to the City the entire amount thereof.
   I   System Maintenance: A provider shall:
      1   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a nondangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise;
      2   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the National
Electrical Safety Code and all other applicable Federal, State and local laws
or regulations.
      3   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the City of the system and its effect on the rights of way.
   J   Trimming Of Trees: A provider shall have the authority to trim trees, in
accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and easement
restrictions, upon and hanging over rights of way so as to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with its system. (Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-1997,
eff. 1-1-1998)
7-7-9: FRANCHISE AND LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A   Notification Of Sale:
      1   Notification And Election: When a provider is the subject of a sale,
transfer, lease, assignment, sublease or is disposed of, in whole or in part,
either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or
otherwise, such that it or its successor entity shall promptly notify the City
of the nature of the transaction. The notification shall include either:
         a   The successor entity's certification that the successor entity
unequivocally agrees to all of the terms of the original provider's franchise
agreement; or
         b   The successor entity's application in compliance with Section
7-7-7 of this Chapter.
      2   Transfer Of Franchise: Upon receipt of a notification and
certification in accordance with subsection A1a of this Section, the City
designee, as provided in subsection
7-7-11A1 of this Chapter, shall send notice affirming the transfer of the
franchise to the successor entity. If the City has good cause to believe that
the successor entity may not comply with this Chapter or the franchise
agreement, it may require an application for the transfer. The application
shall comply with Section
7-7-7 of this Chapter.
      3   If PSC Approval No Longer Required: If the PSC no longer exists, or
if its regulations or State law no longer require approval of transactions
described in this subsection A, and the City has good cause to believe that the
successor entity may not comply with this Chapter or the franchise agreement,
it may require an application. The application shall comply with Section
7-7-7 of this Chapter.
   B   Events Of Sale: The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of the franchise requiring compliance with
subsection A of this Section: 1) the sale, assignment or other transfer of all
or a majority of a provider's assists to another person; 2) the sale,
assignment or other transfer of capital stock or partnership, membership or
other equity interests in a provider by one or more of its existing
shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to create a new
controlling interest in a provider; 3) the issuance of additional capital stock
or partnership, membership or other equity interest by a provider so as to
create a new controlling interest in such a provider; or 4) the entry by a
provider into an agreement with respect to the management or operation of such
provider or its system. (Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-7-10: OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION:
   A   Insurance, Indemnity, And Security: Prior to the execution of a
franchise, a provider will deposit with the City an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit or surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and
shall obtain and provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the
franchise. A provider shall also indemnify the City as set forth in the
franchise.
   B   Oversight: The City shall have the right to oversee, regulate and
inspect periodically the construction, maintenance, and upgrade of the system,
and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the franchise and
applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain managerial and
operational records, standards, procedures and controls to enable a provider to
prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the City at all times
throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with the franchise. A
provider shall retain such records for not less than the applicable statute of
limitations.
   C   Maintain Records: A provider shall at all times maintain:
      1   On file with the City, a full and complete set of plans, records and
"as-built" hard copy maps and, to the extent the maps are placed in an
electronic format, they shall be made in electronic format compatible with the
City's existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the
types of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights of way,
properly identified and described as to the types of equipment and facility by
appropriate symbols and marks which shall include annotations of all rights of
way where work will be undertaken. As used herein, "as-built" maps include
"file construction prints". Maps shall be drawn to scale. "As-built" maps,
including the compatible electronic format, as provided above, shall be
submitted within thirty (30) days of completion of work or within thirty (30)
days after completion of modification and repairs. "As-built" maps are not
required by the provider who is the incumbent local exchange carrier for the
existing system to the extent they do not exist.
      2   Throughout the term of the franchise, a provider shall maintain
complete and accurate books of account and records of the business, ownership,
and operations of a provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows
the City at all times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the
franchise. Should the City reasonably determine that the records are not being
maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the
books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance
with this Section. All financial books and records which are maintained in
accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that
regulates utilities in the State, and generally accepted accounting principles
shall be deemed to be acceptable under this Section.
   D   Confidentiality: If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature, or must be kept confidential by Federal, State or local
law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall be classified as
a protected record within the meaning of the Utah Government Records Access and
Management Act ("GRAMA"), making it available only to those who must have
access to perform their duties on behalf of the City, provided that a provider
notifies the City of, and clearly labels the information which a provider deems
to be confidential, proprietary information. Such notification and labeling
shall be the sole responsibility of the provider.
   E   Provider's Expense: All reports and records required under this Chapter
shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as otherwise
provided in this Chapter or a franchise.
   F   Right Of Inspection: For the purpose of verifying the correct amount of
the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto
shall be open to inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives of the
City at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records, provided that the City shall not audit
the books and records of the provider more often than annually. The provider
agrees to reimburse the City the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit
discloses that the provider has paid ninety five percent (95%) or less of the
compensation due the City for the period of such an audit. In the event the
accounting rendered to the City by the provider herein is found to be
incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount within thirty
(30) calendar days of written notice, it being agreed that the City may accept
any amount offered by the provider, but the acceptance thereof by the City
shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount is in dispute or is
later found to be incorrect. (Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-7-11: RIGHTS OF CITY:
   A   Enforcement And Remedies:
      1   Enforcement; City Designee: The City is responsible for enforcing and
administering this Chapter, and the City or its designee, as appointed by the
City Manager, is authorized to give any notice required by law or under any
franchise agreement.
      2   Enforcement Provision: Any franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter
shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation, and
protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of this Chapter,
including, but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures for
accessing the Bond/Security Fund, and rights of termination or revocation.
   B   Force Majeure: In the event a provider's performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this Chapter or a franchise is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider's control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this Section, causes or events
not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation: acts of
God; strikes; sabotage; riots or civil disturbances; failure or loss of
utilities; explosions; acts of public enemies; and natural disasters such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides, and fires.
   C   Extended Operation And Continuity Of Services:
      1   Continuation After Expiration: Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter, the City shall have discretion
to permit a provider to continue to operate its system or provide services for
an extended period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its system under
the terms and conditions of this Chapter and the franchise granted pursuant to
this Chapter.
      2   Continuation By Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier: If the provider is
the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   D   Removal Or Abandonment Of Franchise Property:
      1   Abandoned System: In the event that: a) the use of any portion of the
system is discontinued for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, and
thirty (30) days after no response to written notice from the City to the last
known address of provider; b) any system has been installed in the rights of
way without complying with the requirements of this Chapter or franchise; or c)
the provisions of subsection
7-7-5E of this Chapter are applicable and no franchise is granted, a provider,
except the provider who is an incumbent local exchange carrier, shall be deemed
to have abandoned such system.
      2   Removal Of Abandoned System: The City, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this Chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time the
abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights of way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights of way in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The City shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights-of- way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
Chapter and any security fund provided in a franchise shall continue in full
force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a
provider with the terms and conditions of this Section.
      3   Transfer Of Abandoned System To City: Upon abandonment of any system
in place, a provider, if required by the City, shall submit to the City a
written instrument, satisfactory in form to the City, transferring to the City
the ownership of the abandoned system.
      4   Removal Of Aboveground System: At the expiration of the term for
which a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this Chapter, in any such case without renewal, extension or
transfer, the City shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its
expense, all aboveground portions of a system from the rights of way within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one hundred eighty
(180) days. If the provider is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall
not be required to remove its system, but shall negotiate a renewal in good
faith.
      5   Leaving Underground System: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth in this Chapter, a provider may abandon any underground system in
place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the rights of
way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or other
person. (Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-7-12: OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY:
Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good faith
attempt to contact the property owners in advance, and describe the work to be
performed. (Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-7-13: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A   Conflicts: In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
Chapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this Chapter
in effect at the time the franchise is entered into shall control.
   B   Severability: If any provision of this Chapter is held by any Federal,
State or local court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid as conflicting
with any Federal or State statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in
any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law and all
appellate remedies with regard to the validity of the Chapter provisions in
question are exhausted, such provision shall be considered a separate,
distinct, and independent part of this Chapter, and such holding shall not
affect the validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the
event that such law is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise
changed, so that the provision which had been held invalid or modified is no
longer in conflict with such law, the provision in question shall return to
full force and effect and shall again be binding on the City and the provider,
provided that the City shall give the provider thirty (30) days, or a longer
period of time as may be reasonably required for a provider to comply with such
a rejuvenated provision, written notice of the change before requiring
compliance with such provision.
   C   New Developments: It shall be the policy of the City to liberally amend
this Chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable the
provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently, or economically serve itself or the public.
   D   Notices: All notices from a provider to the City required under this
Chapter or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter shall be
directed to the City Manager. A provider shall provide in any application for a
franchise the identity, address and phone number to receive notices from the
City. A provider shall immediately notify the City of any change in its name,
address, or telephone number.
   E   Exercise Of Police Power: To the full extent permitted by applicable law
either now or in the future, the City reserves the right to adopt or issue such
rules, regulations, orders, or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers. (Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-
1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
7-7-14: FEDERAL, STATE AND CITY JURISDICTION:
   A   Construction: This Chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent
with all applicable Federal and State statutes.
   B   Ordinance Applicability: This Chapter shall apply to all franchises
granted or renewed after the effective date of this Chapter. This Chapter shall
further apply, to the extent permitted by applicable Federal or State law, to
all existing franchises granted prior to the effective date of this Chapter and
to a provider providing services without a franchise, prior to the effective
date hereof.
   C   Other Applicable Ordinances: A provider's rights are subject to the
police powers of the City to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the City pursuant to its
police powers. In particular, all providers shall comply with the City zoning
and other land use requirements.
   D   City Failure To Enforce: A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter by reason of any failure of the City
to enforce prompt compliance.
   E   Construed According To Utah Law: This Chapter and any franchise granted
pursuant to this Chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the
substantive laws of the State. (Ord. 1997-2, 12-10-1997, eff. 1-1-1998)
CHAPTER 8
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING
SECTION:
7-8-1: Purpose
7-8-2: Policy Considerations
7-8-3: Definition
7-8-4: Guidelines Advisory
7-8-5: Review Of Decision
7-8-6: Reviewing Guidelines
7-8-7: Results Of Review
7-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to assist the City in the review of actions by
the City that raise constitutional taking issues. (Ord. 1997-5, 12-10-1997)
7-8-2: POLICY CONSIDERATIONS:
The City strongly favors careful consideration of matters involving
constitutional taking claims, both in fairness to the owner of private property
bringing a claim and in view of the uncertainty and expense involved in
defending lawsuits alleging such issues. At the same time, the legitimate role
of government in lawfully regulating real property must be preserved as well as
the public's right to require that dedication or exaction of property be
accomplished in accordance with the Constitution.
This Chapter is intended to provide a procedure as well as guidelines for the
review of actions by its officers, employees, boards, or councils which will
assist the City in considering decisions involving constitutional takings. This
Chapter is further intended and shall be construed to objectively and fairly
review claims by citizens that a specific government action should require
payment of compensation, while preserving the ability of the City to lawfully
regulate real property and fulfill its other duties and functions. (Ord. 1997-
5, 12-10-1997)
7-8-3: DEFINITION:
   A   "Constitutional taking" means actions by the City involving the physical
taking or exaction of private real property that might require compensation to
a private real property owner because of:
      1   The Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States;
      2   Article I, section 22, of the Utah Constitution;
      3   Any court ruling governing the physical taking or exaction of private
real property by a government entity.
   B   Actions by the City involving the physical taking or exaction of private
real property is not a constitutional taking if the physical taking or
exaction:
      1   Bears an essential connection to a legitimate governmental interest,
and
      2   Is roughly proportionate and reasonably related on an individualized
property basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed
development on the legitimate government interest. (Ord. 1997-5, 12-10-1997)
7-8-4: GUIDELINES ADVISORY:
The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter are advisory, and shall not be construed to expand or limit the
scope of the City's liability for a constitutional taking. The reviewing body
or official shall not be required to make any determination under this Chapter
except pursuant to Section
7-8-5 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1997-5, 12-10-1997)
7-8-5: REVIEW OF DECISION:
Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a constitutional
taking of their private real property may request a review of a final decision
of any officer, employee, board, or council. The following are specific
procedures established for such a review:
   A   The person requesting a review must have obtained a final and
authoritative determination from within the City relative to the decision from
which they are requesting review.
   B   Within thirty (30) days from the date of the final decision that gave
rise to the concern that a constitutional taking has occurred, the person
requesting the review shall file, in writing, in the office of the City
Recorder, a request for review of that decision. A copy shall also be filed
with the City Attorney.
   C   The City Council, or an individual or body designated by the City
Council, shall immediately set a time to review the decision that gave rise to
the constitutional takings claim.
   D   In addition to the written request for review, the applicant must
submit, prior to the date of the review, the following:
      1   Name of the applicant requesting review;
      2   Name and business address of current owner of the property, form of
ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other and, if owned by a
corporation, partnership, or joint venture, the name and address of all
principal shareholders or partners.
      3   A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has
been a constitutional taking;
      4   A detailed description of the property taken;
      5   Documented evidence verifying the value of the property taken,
including the date and cost at the date the property was acquired. This should
include any evidence of the value of that same property before and after the
alleged constitutional taking, the name of the party from whom purchased,
including the relationship, if any, between the person requesting a review and
the party from whom the property was acquired;
      6   Nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected such as,
but not limited to, fee simple ownership, or lease- hold interest;
      7   Term (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of a
full or partial interest in the property in the three (3) years prior to the
date of application;
      8   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose including
financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three (3)
years prior to the date of application;
      9   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the
previous three (3) years;
      10   All information concerning mortgages or other loans secured by the
property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest rate,
remaining loan balance and term of the loan and other significant provisions
including, but not limited to, right of purchasers to assume the loan;
      11   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three (3) years;
      12   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the
petitioner within the previous three (3) years concerning feasibility of
development or utilization of the property;
      13   For income-producing property, itemized income and expense
statements from the property for the previous three (3) years;
      14   Information from a title policy or other source showing all recorded
liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and
      15   The City Council or their designee may request additional
information reasonably necessary, in their opinion, to arrive at a conclusion
concerning whether there has been a constitutional taking.
   E   An application shall not be deemed to be "complete" or "submitted" until
the reviewing body/official certifies to the applicant that all the materials
and information required above have been received by the City. The reviewing
body/official shall promptly notify the applicant of an incomplete application.
   F   The City Council, or the individual official or body designated by them,
shall hear all the evidence related to and submitted by the applicant, City, or
any other interested party.
   G   A final decision on the review shall be rendered within fourteen (14)
days from the date the completed application has been received by the City
Council. The decision of the City Council or designee regarding the results of
the review shall be given in writing to the applicant and the officer,
employee, board, or council rendering the decision that gave rise to the
constitutional takings claim.
   H   If the City Council fails to hear and decide the review within fourteen
(14) days, the decision appealed from shall be presumed to be approved. (Ord.
1997-5, 12-10-1997)
7-8-6: REVIEWING GUIDELINES:
The City Council shall review the facts and information presented by the
applicant to determine whether or not the action taken by the City constitutes
a "constitutional taking" as defined in this Chapter. In doing so, they shall
consider:
   A   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real property
bears an essential connection to a legitimate governmental interest;
   B   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action taken
by the City;
   C   Whether the property and exaction taken is roughly proportionate or
reasonably related, on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent
to the impact caused by the activities that are the subject of the decision
being reviewed;
   D   When looking at each parcel, property, or development individually,
whether the proposed exaction is roughly proportionate and reasonably related
in nature and extent to the overall purpose for the taking, or to the
governmental interest. (Ord. 1997-5, 12-10-1997)
7-8-7: RESULTS OF REVIEW:
After completing the review, the reviewing official/body shall make a
determination regarding the above issues and, where determined to be necessary
and appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the officer, employee, board,
or council that made the decision giving rise to the constitutional takings
claim. (Ord. 1997-5, 12-10-1997)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water Department
8-1-2: Applications For Connection, Service
8-1-3: Fees
8-1-4: Statement Of Charges; Delinquency
8-1-5: Discontinuance Of Service; Permanent And Temporary
8-1-6: Use Without Payment Prohibited
8-1-7: Unlawful Use
8-1-8: Installation Of Water Lines
8-1-9: Pipe Requirements
8-1-10: Water Mains Extended
8-1-11: Access By Department
8-1-12: Water Use For Motors And Certain Machinery Restricted
8-1-13: Fire Hydrants
8-1-14: Scarcity Of Water
8-1-15: Excessive Use Of Sprinklers
8-1-16: Waste Of Water
8-1-17: Water Meters
8-1-18: Service Outside City
8-1-19: Nonliability For Damages
8-1-1: WATER DEPARTMENT:
   A   Administration, Operation And Maintenance: The water department shall
administer the operation and maintenance of the water system of the city. (1978
Code § 14-110; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Manager: There is hereby created the position of public works manager of
the water department. (1978 Code § 14-111; amd. 1996 Code)
   C   Duties: The public works manager shall manage and supervise the city
water system pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and pursuant to
resolutions, rules and regulations adopted by the city council from time to
time prescribing his powers and duties and directing the manner and frequency
with which he shall make reports to the city manager relating to the water
system. All of the functions and activities of the public works manager shall
be carried on under the direction of the city manager. (1978 Code § 14-112;
amd. 1996 Code)
8-1-2: APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTION, SERVICE:
   A   Connection: Any person, other than a subdivider or developer seeking
multiple connections, who desires or is required to secure a new connection to
the city water system, shall file with the city for each connection a written
and signed connection application. (1978 Code § 14-113; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Connection By Subdividers: Whenever a subdivider or developer desires or
is required to install water connections and extensions for a subdivision or
development, the subdivider or developer shall enter into a written extension
agreement which shall constitute an application for permission to make the
extensions and connections and an agreement specifying the terms and conditions
under which the water extensions and connections shall be made and the payments
that shall be required. (1978 Code § 14-114)
   C   Service: Any person who desires or is required to secure water service
when such service is available from the city water system, shall file with the
city a written application and agreement for the service. (1978 Code § 14-115;
amd. 1996 Code)
   D   Nonowner Service: Applications for water service made by the tenant of
an owner must in addition to the above requirements be guaranteed by an
agreement, which is on file in the city office signed by the owner of the
premises or his duly authorized agent. (1978 Code § 14-116; amd. 1996 Code)
8-1-3: FEES:
   A   Service Rates And Connection Fees: The rates, penalty fee for
delinquency in payment, connection fee, reservoir fee, inspection fee and other
charges incidental to connection and services from the city water system shall
be fixed from time to time by resolution enacted by the city council. The city
council may from time to time promulgate rules for levying, billing,
guaranteeing and collecting charges for water services and all other rules
necessary for the management and control of the water system. Rates for
services furnished shall be uniform with respect to each class or classes of
service established or that may hereafter be established. (1978 Code § 14-117)
   B   Special Rates: The City Council may from time to time fix by agreement
or resolution special rates and conditions for users using exceptionally large
amounts of water service or making use of the water system under exceptional
circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as they may deem proper. (1978
Code § 14-118)
   C   Complaints; Corrections: The City Council shall act as a Board of
Equalization of Water Rates to hear complaints and make corrections of any
assessments deemed to be illegal, unequal or unjust. (1978 Code § 14-119; amd.
1996 Code)
8-1-4: STATEMENT OF CHARGES; DELINQUENCY:
   A   Statement: The City shall furnish to each user, or mail to, or leave at
his place of residence or usual place of business, a written or printed
statement stating thereon the amount of water service charges assessed against
him once each month or at such other regular interval as the City Council shall
direct. The statement shall specify the amount of the bill for the water
service and the place of payment and date due. (1978 Code § 14-121; amd. 1996
Code)
   B   Failure To Pay: If any person fails to pay the water charges, the City
shall give the customer notice in writing of intent to discontinue the service
to the customer unless the customer pays the bill in full within ten (10) days
from the date of notice. (Ord. 2017-1, 5-9-2017)
   C   Payment Of Delinquent Charges: If the water service is thereafter
discontinued for failure to make payment, then before the water service to the
premises shall again be provided, all delinquent water charges must have been
paid or arrangements made for payment in a manner satisfactory to the City. In
the event water is turned off for nonpayment of water charges, then before the
water service to the premises shall again be provided, the customer shall pay,
in addition to all delinquent water charges, such extra charge for turning the
water on and off as the City Council may establish by resolution for turning on
the water. Furthermore, in addition to such payments and penalties, a
delinquent customer may be required to make and file a new application and
deposit if the previous deposit has theretofore been applied to the payment of
delinquent bills. The Treasurer is hereby authorized and empowered to enforce
the payment of all delinquent water charges by an action at law in the name of
the City. (1978 Code § 14-121; amd. Res. 95-2, 3-22-1995; 1996 Code)
8-1-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY:
   A   Notification; Permanent: Any customer desiring to discontinue service
shall notify the City before the date when such service shall be discontinued.
On giving such notice, the customer shall not be responsible for water bills
incurred after the date specified in the notice. Any credit balance in favor of
the customer as a result of an advance payment of bills or a deposit made will
be refunded upon discontinuation of service. (1978 Code § 14-141; amd. 1996
Code)
   B   Temporary Disconnect; Fee: A charge will be assessed to any customer who
requests that utility services be temporarily discontinued, which shall be set
by resolution of the City Council.
   C   Reinstatement After Temporary Disconnect; Fee: A charge will be assessed
to any customer who requests that their utility services be reinstated after
temporary disconnect, which shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
(Res. 95-2, 3-22-1995; amd. 1996 Code)
8-1-6: USE WITHOUT PAYMENT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person by himself, family, or agents to utilize
the City water or sewage system without paying therefor, as herein provided or,
to open any fire hydrant, stopcock, valve, or other fixtures attached to the
system of water supply unless it is done pursuant to proper application,
agreement or resolution. (1978 Code § 14-120; amd. 1996 Code)
8-1-7: UNLAWFUL USE:
   A   Turning On Water After Being Turned Off Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any person, after the water has been turned off from the premises for
nonpayment of water charges or other violation of the ordinances, rules,
regulations, or resolutions pertaining to the water supply, to turn on or allow
the water to be turned on or used. (1978 Code § 14-122; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Separate Connections:
      1   Revocation Of Prior Consent: Any and all consent on the part of the
City previously given that two (2) or more families or service users can be
supplied from the same service pipe, connection or water meter is hereby
revoked.
      2   Exception: The City may consent that two (2) families or service
users can be supplied by the same service pipe, connection or water meter where
the premises served are owned by the same owner, when the cost of installing a
second service line would be prohibitive. Authorization will not be granted
unless the owner agrees, in writing, to pay all City charges for water, sewer
service and garbage collection for the entire premises served so that the City
will bill and look only to the owner of the premises for the payment of all
charges for water supplied, sewer service and garbage collection service to the
premises and will not look to the individual tenants or occupants. (Res. 91-1,
3-13-1991; amd. 1996 Code)
   C   Unauthorized Users: It shall be unlawful for any water service user to
permit any person from other premises or any unauthorized person to use or
obtain water services regularly from his premises or water facilities, either
outside or inside his premises. (1978 Code § 14-124)
   D   Adjoining Premises: No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water
pipes across lots or buildings to adjoining premises. (1978 Code § 14-127B;
amd. 1996 Code)
   E   Penalty: Violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-6 of this Code. (1996 Code)
8-1-8: INSTALLATION OF WATER LINES:
   A   Encroachment Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
lay, repair, alter or connect any water line to the City culinary water system
without first having received an encroachment permit from the City. (1978 Code
§ 14-137; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Application: Applications to make water connections or other alteration
or for laying or repairing lines connected directly or indirectly to the City
water system must be made in writing by a licensed plumber, his authorized
agent, or by the owner of the premises who shall describe the nature of the
work to be done for which the application is made.
   C   Determination Of Approval: The application shall be granted if the
Public Works Manager determines that:
      1   The connection, repair, alteration or installation will cause no
damage to the street in which the water main is laid, or that it will not be
prejudicial to the interests of persons whose property has been or may
thereafter be connected to the water main.
      2   The connection conforms to the ordinances, regulations,
specifications and standards of materials required by the City.
   D   Line And Grade Designation: All connections, alterations or
installations shall be to the line and grade designated by the Public Works
Manager.
   E   Fees: Fees for services shall be of such amounts as the City Council
shall from time to time determine by resolution. (1978 Code § 14-138; amd. 1996
Code)
   F   Moving Or Replacement Of Water Lines: In the event that the City in its
sole discretion determines that any water line of the City must be moved or
replaced, the City shall bear that portion of the cost of such move or
replacement which applies to main lines up to the property line of the
customer. (1978 Code § 14-139; amd. 1996 Code)
   G   When Encroachment Permits Shall Not Be Issued: Permission to connect
with the City water system shall not be given unless the plumbing in the house
or building to be connected meets the provisions of the Building and Plumbing
Codes 1  of the City. (1978 Code § 14-140)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this Code.
8-1-9: PIPE REQUIREMENTS:
   A   Good Repair: All users of water services shall keep their service pipes
and connections and other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at
their own expense. Except under the direction of the public works manager, and
unless an encroachment permit has been obtained, no person shall be allowed to
dig into the street for the purpose of laying, removing or repairing any
service pipe. (1978 Code § 14-126; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Quality Of Service Pipe: All service and other pipe used in conjunction
with the water services of the city shall be of such material, quality, and
specifications as the city council may from time to time by resolution provide,
and shall be installed at such distances below ground as may be specified by
regulations relating to the water department. All work, alterations, or
extensions affecting water pipes shall be subject to the acceptance of the
public works manager, and no connections with any water mains shall be made
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city. (1978 Code § 14-127A;
amd. 1996 Code)
8-1-10: WATER MAINS EXTENDED:
   A   Application To City Council: Any person or persons, including any
subdivider, who desires to have the water mains extended within the city, and
is willing to advance the whole expense of such extension, may make application
to the city council. The application shall contain a description of such
proposed extension accompanied by a map showing the location of the proposed
extension together with an agreement to advance the whole expense thereof,
which cost shall be verified by the public works manager. The city council may
grant or deny the petition as in its discretion seems best for the welfare of
existing water users in the city. (1978 Code § 14-143; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Cost Determined: Upon the receipt of such application and map and before
the petition is granted, the city council shall obtain from the city manager a
statement showing the whole cost or expense of making such extension. (1978
Code § 14-144; amd. 1996 Code)
   C   Payment: If the city council grants the application, the amount of the
cost of making the extension, as verified by the city manager, shall be paid to
the city before any work shall be done on such extension. The payment shall be
made within thirty (30) days, or such other time as the city council shall
indicate, after the granting thereof. (1978 Code § 14-145; amd. 1996 Code)
   D   Ownership Of Extension: Any such extension shall be deemed the property
of the city. (1978 Code § 14-147)
8-1-11: ACCESS BY DEPARTMENT:
The public works manager and his agents shall at all ordinary hours have free
access to any place supplied with water services from the city system for the
purpose of examining the apparatus and ascertaining the amount of water service
being used and the manner of its use. (1978 Code § 14-130; amd. 1996 Code)
8-1-12: WATER USE FOR MOTORS AND CERTAIN MACHINERY RESTRICTED:
No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the city water system for the
purpose of driving motor, syphon, turbine, or other wheels, or any hydraulic
engines, or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose
except by special permission of the city council. (1978 Code § 14-132)
8-1-13: FIRE HYDRANTS:
Water for fire hydrants will be furnished free of charge by the city.
Installation and repairs on city owned hydrants shall be at the expense of the
city and shall be made under the direction of the city. All customers shall
grant the city, upon demand, a right of way or easement to install and maintain
city owned hydrants if the city concludes that hydrants shall be so installed
for the protection of the residents of the city. (1978 Code § 14-142; amd. 1996
Code)
8-1-14: SCARCITY OF WATER 1 :
In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the
governing body be necessary, the city council shall by resolution limit the use
of water to such extent as may be necessary. (1978 Code § 14-134; amd. 1996
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 6 of this title.
8-1-15: EXCESSIVE USE OF SPRINKLERS 1 :
   A   Effect On City Water System: It shall be unlawful for any person to use
such number of outlets simultaneously or to use such sprinkler or combinations
of sprinkler or outlets as will in the opinion of the city council materially
affect the pressure or supply of water in the city water system or any part
thereof, and the city council may from time to time, by resolution, specify
combinations or numbers of outlets which may have such effect.
   B   Order To Discontinue: The city council shall, after determining that
such improper use exists, notify the water user or the owner of the premises
whereon such use occurs of such determination in writing, order such use
discontinued and advise that such continued usage constitutes a violation of
this chapter. (1978 Code § 14-133; amd. 1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See also chapter 6 of this title.
8-1-16: WASTE OF WATER 1 :
   A   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any water user to:
      1   Waste water.
      2   Allow it to be wasted by stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or pipes,
or to allow tanks or watering troughs to leak or overflow.
      3   Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets, and restroom facilities
or other apparatus.
      4   Use the water for purposes other than those for which he has applied,
or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for controlling the
water supply. (1978 Code § 14-128; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Refer To Governing Body: Users of water from the city water system shall
not permit water to continue to run wastefully and without due efforts to
conserve water. If, in the judgment of the city, a user of city water engages
in practices which result in the needless waste of water and continues to do so
after reasonable notice to discontinue wastefulness has been given, the city
manager may refer the matter to the governing body.
   C   Termination Of Service; Meeting: The governing body may thereupon
consider terminating the right of the individual to use culinary water. If it
elects to consider the matter of termination, it shall give notice to the water
user of the intention to terminate his water connection at least five (5) days
prior to the meeting at which termination of water service is to be considered.
The notice shall inform him of the time and place of the meeting and the
charges which led to the consideration of the termination.
   D   Appearance By Water User: A water user whose right to utilize city water
is being reviewed shall have opportunity to appear with or without counsel and
present the reasons why his water service should not be discontinued.
   E   Determination: After due hearing, the governing body may arrive at a
determination. If the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user's
service connection, the governing body shall notify him of the decision and of
the period during which the service will remain discontinued. (1978 Code § 14-
135; amd. 1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 6 of this title.
8-1-17: WATER METERS:
   A   Number Of Meters; Dispute: Except as otherwise expressly permitted by
this chapter, all structures, dwelling units, establishments and persons using
water from the city water system must have an adequately sized water meter
connected to their water system as is necessary in the judgment of the public
works manager to measure use and determine water charges to the respective
users. Whenever a dispute between the public works manager and the property
owner arises as to the appropriate size of meter to be installed on any
premises, the matter shall be heard and determined by the governing body after
due notice in writing to the parties involved.
   B   Meters Furnished By City: Meters will be furnished by the city upon
application for a connection, and upon payment of such connection fees and
other costs as may be established by the city council from time to time by
resolution. Meters shall be deemed to be and remain the property of the city.
   C   Meter Readings: The public works manager shall cause meter readings to
be taken and shall advise the business office thereof for the purpose of
recording the necessary charges for water service.
   D   Tampering: Meters may be checked, inspected or adjusted at the
discretion of the city, and they shall not be adjusted or tampered with by the
customer. Meter boxes shall not be opened for the purpose of turning on or off
the water except by an authorized representative of the city.
   E   Meter Testing: If a customer submits a request to the public works
manager to test his water meter, the city may, in its discretion, order a test
of the meter measuring the water delivered to such customer. If such request is
made within twelve (12) months after the date of the last previous test, the
customer may be required to pay the cost of such test. If the meter is found in
such test to record from ninety seven percent (97%) to one hundred three
percent (103%) of accuracy under methods of testing satisfactory to the city,
the meter shall be deemed to accurately measure the use of water.
   F   Estimation In Case Of Failure: If the city's meters fail to register at
any time, the water delivered during the period of failure shall be estimated
on the basis of previous consumption during a period which is not questioned.
In the event a meter is found to be recording less than ninety seven percent
(97%) or more than one hundred three percent (103%) of accuracy, the city shall
make such adjustments in the customer's previous bills as are just and fair
under the circumstances.
   G   Damage To System: It shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-6 of this code, to injure, deface, or impair any part or appurtenance of
the water or sewer system, or to cast anything into any reservoir or tank
belonging to the water system.
   H   Damage By Customer: All damages or injury to the lines, meters or other
materials of the city on or near the customer's premises caused by any act or
neglect of the customer shall in the discretion of the city be repaired by and
at the expense of the customer. The customer shall pay all costs and expenses,
including a reasonable attorney fee, which may arise or accrue to the city
through its efforts to repair the damage to the lines, meters or to other
equipment of the department or collect such costs from the customer. (1978 Code
§ 14-136; amd. 1996 Code)
8-1-18: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY:
The provision and sale of utility services outside city limits:
   A   The city has a responsibility to meet the requirements of water users
within the city limits, as well as those connected to the service within the
future annexation area, however, in times of water shortage service to all such
users may be curtailed.
   B   The city reserves the right to deny any application for connection to
city utility lines, based on known or anticipated factors which might be
considered detrimental to the city.
   C   The city has no obligation to extend, construct, or in any way provide
water or sewer lines in addition to those already in existence.
   D   The applicant must agree to pay, in advance, the entire expense for
extension of water and sewer lines or cause the lines to be constructed at the
applicant's expense.
   E   The extended lines must be installed by a licensed contractor, according
to city specifications, and must pass inspection by the city public works
director and city engineer prior to final approval and acceptance by the city.
   F   The extended lines must be sized to meet the needs of future planned
growth and infrastructure expansion as approved by the city public works
department.
   G   The extended lines must be placed to meet the city's future planned
growth and infrastructure needs, with consideration given to the Monticello
city general plan and future road corridors, as reviewed and approved by the
zoning administrator.
   H   When complete, any water main extensions must be surrendered to city
ownership along with all appropriate easements and rights of way.
   I   The extension must be individually reviewed and approved by the city
council.
   J   The applicant must agree to pay an additional fee for the provision of
services outside city limits, with rates to be reasonably set and justified by
the city council.
   K   Should the city institute an annexation which would include the property
of the applicant, the applicant must agree not to resist or otherwise oppose
such annexation.
   L   Water users outside the city limits will be required to follow the same
watering use restrictions as all other water users serviced by the city of
Monticello.
   M   All of the above stipulations will be provided for in an agreement to be
signed by the applicant and submitted to the city council for consideration.
(Ord. 2010-03, 6-8-2010)
8-1-19: NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The city shall not be held liable for any damage to a water service user by
reason of stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by
fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains, or which
occurs as the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from any other
unavoidable cause. This chapter shall not be construed to extend the liability
of the city beyond that provided in the governmental immunity act 1 . (1978
Code § 14-131)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 63-30-1.
CHAPTER 2
SECONDARY WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Secondary Water System
8-2-2: Applications For Connection; Service
8-2-3: Fees
8-2-4: Statement Of Charges; Delinquency
8-2-5: Use Without Payment Prohibited
8-2-6: Use Without Authority; Restrictions
8-2-7: Installation Of Water Lines
8-2-8: Pipe Requirements
8-2-9: Water Mains Extended
8-2-10: Access By Department
8-2-11: Water Use For Motors And Certain Machinery Restricted
8-2-12: Scarcity Of Water
8-2-13: Excessive Use Of Sprinklers
8-2-14: Watering Restrictions
8-2-15: Water Meters (Rep. by Ord. 2013-3, 5-14-2013)
8-2-16: Damages To System
8-2-17: Declaration Of Easement
8-2-18: Cross Connection Prohibited
8-2-1: SECONDARY WATER SYSTEM:
The public works manager shall manage and supervise the secondary water system
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and pursuant to resolutions, rules
and regulations adopted by the city council from time to time prescribing his
powers and duties and directing the manner and frequency with which he shall
make reports to the city manager relating to the secondary water system. All of
the functions and activities of the public works manager shall be carried on
under the direction of the city manager. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; amd. 1996 Code)
8-2-2: APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTION; SERVICE:
   A   Connection: Any property owner, other than a subdivider or developer,
seeking one or more connections to the secondary water system, shall file with
the city for each such connection a written and signed application, which is on
file in the business office, and which includes an agreement for payment of
connection fees and annual users charges.
   B   Connection By Subdividers: Whenever a subdivider or developer desires or
is required to install secondary water connections and extensions for a
subdivision or development, the subdivider or developer shall enter into a
written extension agreement which shall constitute an application for
permission to make the extensions and connections and an agreement specifying
the terms and conditions under which the water extensions and connections shall
be made and the payments that shall be required.
   C   Connection By Nonowners: Applications for secondary water connections
shall be made by the owner of the property to which the connection is to be
made. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; amd. 1996 Code)
8-2-3: FEES:
   A   Service Rates And Connection Fees: The rates, penalty fee for
delinquency in payment, connection fee, inspection fee and other charges
incidental to connection and services from the secondary water system shall be
fixed from time to time by resolution enacted by the city council. The city
council may from time to time promulgate rules for levying, billing,
guaranteeing and collecting charges for secondary water services and all other
rules necessary for the management and control of the secondary water system.
Rates for services furnished shall be uniform with respect to each class or
classes of service established or that may hereafter be established.
   B   Special Rates: The city council may from time to time fix by agreement
or resolution special rates and conditions for users using exceptionally large
amounts of water service or making use of the secondary water system under
exceptional circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as they may deem
proper. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; amd. 1996 Code)
8-2-4: STATEMENT OF CHARGES; DELINQUENCY:
   A   Statement: The business office shall furnish to each user, or mail to,
or leave at his place of residence or usual place of business, a written or
printed statement stating thereon the amount of secondary water service charges
assessed against him once each year or at such other regular interval as the
Governing Body shall direct. The statement shall specify the amount of the bill
for the secondary water service and the place of payment and date due.
   B   Failure To Pay: If any person fails to pay the secondary water charges
within sixty (60) days of the date due, the customer shall be given notice in
writing of the intent to discontinue the service to the customer unless the
customer pays the bill in full within five (5) days from the date of notice.
   C   Payment Of Delinquent Charges: If the secondary water service is
thereafter discontinued for failure to make payment, then before the secondary
water service to the premises shall again be provided, all delinquent secondary
water charges must have been paid or arrangements made for their payment in a
manner satisfactory to the City. In the event water is turned off for
nonpayment of water charges, then before the water service to the premises
shall again be provided, the customer shall pay, in addition to all delinquent
water charges, such extra charge for turning the water on and off as the City
Council may have established by resolution for turning on the water.
Furthermore, in addition to such payments and penalties, a delinquent customer
may be required to make and file a new application and deposit if the previous
deposit has theretofore been applied to the payment of delinquent bills. The
Treasurer is hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the payment of all
delinquent secondary water charges by an action at law in the name of the City.
(Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; 1996 Code)
8-2-5: USE WITHOUT PAYMENT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person by himself, family, servants, or agents to
utilize the secondary water system without paying therefor, as herein provided
or, without authority, to open any fire hydrant, stopcock, valve, or other
fixtures attached to the system of water supply unless it is done pursuant to
proper application, agreement, or resolution. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; 1996 Code)
8-2-6: USE WITHOUT AUTHORITY; RESTRICTIONS:
   A   Turning On Water After Turned Off Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person, after the secondary water has been turned off from the premises for
nonpayment of secondary water charges or other violation of the ordinances,
rules, regulations, or resolutions pertaining to the secondary water supply, to
turn on or allow the secondary water to be turned on or used.
   B   Unauthorized Users: It shall be unlawful for any secondary water user to
permit any person from other premises or any unauthorized person to use or
obtain secondary water services regularly from his premises or secondary water
facilities, either outside or inside his premises.
   C   Adjoining Premises: No consumer shall be permitted to conduct secondary
water pipes across lots or buildings to adjoining premises.
   D   Large Users: The City Council may permit utilization of the secondary
water system by the County and the Cemetery District for the golf course,
recreational areas, parks and cemeteries, and by connections exceeding one inch
(1") in diameter. Such users, as well as other users of relatively large
quantities of water, shall not be permitted to use the secondary water system,
except during those hours established by ordinance or resolution.
   E   Seasonal Service: The secondary water system will not be installed at a
depth that is necessarily below the frost level. The secondary water system
will be closed and drained during such period of the year as the Public Works
Manager may determine in order to prevent damage to the system from freezing.
(Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; 1996 Code)
8-2-7: INSTALLATION OF WATER LINES:
   A   Encroachment Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
lay, repair, alter or connect any secondary water line to the secondary water
system without first having received an encroachment permit from the Zoning
Administrator.
   B   Application: Applications for permits to make secondary water
connections or other alteration or for laying or repairing lines connected
directly or indirectly to the secondary water system must be made in writing by
a licensed plumber, his authorized agent, or by the owner of the premises who
shall describe the nature of the work to be done for which the application is
made.
   C   Determination Of Approval: The application shall be granted if the
Zoning Administrator determines that:
      1   The connection repair, alteration or installation will cause no
damage to the street in which the secondary water main is laid, or that it will
not be prejudicial to the interests of persons whose property has been or may
thereafter be connected to the secondary water main.
      2   The connection conforms to the ordinances, regulations,
specifications and standards of materials required by the City.
   D   Line And Grade Designations: All connections, alterations or
installations shall be to the line and grade designated by the Public Works
Manager. All water connections shall be by one inch (1") lines, except where
static water pressure falls below forty (40) psi, in which cases water
connections shall be by one and one-half inch (11/2") lines.
   E   Fees: Fees for permits or for inspection services shall be of such
amounts as the City Council shall from time to time determine by resolution.
(Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; 1996 Code)
8-2-8: PIPE REQUIREMENTS:
   A   Good Repair: All users of secondary water services shall keep their
service pipes and connections and other apparatus in good repair and protect
from frost at their own expense. No person shall be allowed to dig into the
street for the purpose of laying, removing or repairing any service pipe,
except with an encroachment permit and under the direction of the Public Works
Manager.
   B   Quality: All service and other pipe used in conjunction with the
secondary water services of the City shall be of such material, quality, and
specifications as the City Council may from time to time by resolution provide,
and shall be installed at such distances below ground as may be specified by
regulations relating to the Water Department. All work, alterations, or
extensions affecting secondary water pipes shall be subject to the acceptance
of the Public Works Manager, and no connections with any secondary water mains
shall be made without first obtaining an encroachment permit from the Zoning
Administrator. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; 1996 Code)
8-2-9: WATER MAINS EXTENDED:
   A   Application To Governing Body: Any person or persons, including any
subdivider, who desires to have the secondary water mains extended within the
City, and is willing to advance the whole expense of such extension, may make
application to the Governing Body. The application shall contain a description
of such proposed extension together with an agreement to advance the whole
expense thereof, which cost shall be verified by the Public Works Manager. The
Governing Body may grant or deny the petition as in its discretion seems best
for the welfare of existing secondary water users in the City.
   B   Cost Determined: Upon the receipt of such application and map and before
the application is granted, the Governing Body shall obtain from the City
Manager a statement showing the whole cost of expense of making such extension.
   C   Payment: If the Governing Body grants the application, the amount of the
cost of making the extension, as verified by the City Manager shall be paid to
the City before any work shall be done on such extension. The payment shall be
made within thirty (30) days, or such other time as the City Council shall
indicate, after the granting thereof.
   D   Ownership Of Extension: Any such extension shall be deemed the property
of the City. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; 1996 Code)
8-2-10: ACCESS BY DEPARTMENT:
The Public Works Manager and his agents shall at all ordinary hours have free
access to any place supplied with secondary water services from the secondary
water system for the purpose of examining the apparatus and ascertaining the
amount of secondary water service being used and the manner of its use. (Ord.
86-1, 3-26-1986; 1996 Code)
8-2-11: WATER USE FOR MOTORS AND CERTAIN MACHINERY RESTRICTED:
No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the secondary water system for the
purpose of driving motor, syphon, turbine, or other wheels, or any hydraulic
engines, or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose
except by special permission of the city council. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986)
8-2-12: SCARCITY OF WATER:
In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the
governing body be necessary, the city council shall by resolution limit the use
of secondary water to such extent as may be necessary. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986;
amd. 1996 Code)
8-2-13: EXCESSIVE USE OF SPRINKLERS:
   A   Effect On City Water System: It shall be unlawful for any person to use
such number of outlets simultaneously or to use such sprinkler or combinations
of sprinkler or outlets as will in the opinion of the city materially affect
the pressure or supply of water in the secondary water system or any part
thereof.
   B   Order To Discontinue: The city shall, after determining that such
improper use exists, notify the secondary water user or the owner of the
premises whereon such use occurs of such determination in writing, order such
use discontinued and advise that such continued usage constitutes a violation
of this section. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; amd. 1996 Code)
8-2-14: WATERING RESTRICTIONS:
   A   Prohibited Hours: (Rep. by Ord. 2000-2, 5-2-2000)
   B   Waste Of Water: Users of water from the secondary water system shall not
permit water to continue to run wastefully and without due efforts to conserve
water. If, in the judgment of the city, a user of secondary water engages in
practices which result in the needless waste of water and continues so to do
after reasonable notice to discontinue wastefulness has been given, the city
manager may refer the matter to the governing body. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; amd.
1996 Code)
   C   Disconnect, Reconnection Fees: Secondary water may be disconnected for
anyone reported to be watering during restricted hours or wasting water, as
defined in subsection B of this section, and a fee assessed for reconnection of
services, the amount to be established by resolution. (Ord. 95-2, 5-10-1995;
amd. 1996 Code; Ord. 2000-2, 5-2-2000)
   D   Termination Of Service: The governing body may consider terminating the
right of the individual to use secondary water. If it elects to consider the
matter of termination, it shall give notice to the secondary water user of the
intention to terminate his secondary water connection at least five (5) days
prior to the meeting of the governing body at which termination of secondary
water service is to be considered. The notice shall inform him of the time and
place of the meeting and of the charges which lead to the consideration of the
termination.
   E   Appearance At Hearing By Water User: A secondary water user whose right
to utilize secondary water is being reviewed shall have opportunity to appear
with or without counsel and present his reasons why his secondary water service
should not be discontinued.
   F   Determination: After due hearing, the city council may arrive at a
determination. If the determination is to discontinue the secondary water
user's service connection, it shall notify him of the decision and of the
period during which the service will remain discontinued. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-
1986; amd. 1996 Code)
8-2-15: WATER METERS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2013-3, 5-14-2013)
8-2-16: DAMAGES TO SYSTEM:
   A   Nonliability For Damages: The city shall not be liable for any damage to
a secondary water service user by reason of stoppage or interruption of his or
her secondary water supply service caused by fires, scarcity of water,
accidents to the secondary water system or its mains, or which occurs as the
result of maintenance and extension operations, or from any other unavoidable
cause. This section shall not be construed to extend the liability of the city
beyond that provided in the governmental immunity act 1 . (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-
1986)
   B   Unlawful; Penalty: It shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-6 of this code, to injure, deface, or impair any part or appurtenance of
the secondary water system, or to cast anything into any reservoir or tank
belonging to the secondary water system.
   C   Damage By Customer: All damages or injury to the lines, meters or other
materials of the city on or near the customer's premises caused by any act or
neglect of the customer shall in the discretion of the city be repaired by and
at the expense of the customer. The customer shall pay all costs and expenses,
including a reasonable attorney fee, which may arise or accrue to the city
through its efforts to repair the damage to the lines, meters or to other
equipment of the department or to collect such costs from the customer. (1996
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 63-30-1.
8-2-17: DECLARATION OF EASEMENT:
There is hereby declared and established an easement across the properties
within the city along presently existing public utility easements for the
installation of the secondary water system. Installation of a secondary water
line shall not interfere with existing uses of the public utility easement by
other utilities and shall not unreasonably interfere with use of the surface by
property owners. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; amd. 1996 Code)
8-2-18: CROSS CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
It shall be a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-6 of this code to make any connection to the secondary water system that
could cause the mingling of secondary water with culinary water in the culinary
water system of the city. (Ord. 86-1, 3-26-1986; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: General Purposes
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Responsibilities
8-3-4: Requirements
8-3-5: Discontinuance Of Service
8-3-1: GENERAL PURPOSES:
The purposes of this Chapter are as follows:
   A   Protection Of Water Supply: To protect the safe drinking water supply of
the City from the possibility of contamination or pollution by requiring
compliance with State and local plumbing codes, health regulations, and other
applicable industry standards for water system safety within the consumer's
internal distribution system or private water system. Compliance with these
minimum safety codes will be considered reasonable vigilance for prevention of
contaminants or pollutants which could backflow into the public drinking water
systems; and
   B   Elimination Or Control Of Cross-Connections: To promote reasonable
elimination or control of cross-connections in the plumbing fixtures and
industrial piping system of the consumer, as required by State and local
plumbing codes, health regulations, and other applicable industry standards to
assure water system safety; and
   C   Administration Of Backflow Prevention: To provide for the administration
of a continuing program of backflow prevention which will systematically and
effectively prevent the contamination or pollution of all drinking water
systems. (Ord. 91-1, 3-27-1991)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings specified,
unless a different meaning is clearly evident from the context:
APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY: Accepted by the Utah Department of Health, Division
of Drinking Water/Sanitation, as meeting an applicable specification or as
suitable for the proposed use.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the purveyor's public water supply will be considered as an auxiliary
water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another purveyor's
public potable water supply or any natural source such as a well, spring,
river, stream, lake, etc., or "used waters" or "industrial fluids". These
waters may be contaminated or polluted or they may be objectionable and
constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water purveyor does not
have authority for sanitary control.
BACK PRESSURE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
under pressure into the feeding distribution pipes of a potable water supply
system from any source other than the intended source.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source
other than the intended source, caused by the reduction of pressure in the
potable water supply system.
BACKFLOW: The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. Specifications for backflow prevention assemblies are contained
within the Utah Plumbing Code, chapter 10, (appendix J).
CONTAMINATION: A degradation of the quality of the potable water supply by
nonpotable water, sewage, industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or
other materials.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures
which may allow nonpotable water or industrial fluids or other material of
questionable quality to come in contact with potable water inside a
distribution system. This would include any temporary connections, such as
swing connections, removable sections, four-way plug valves, spools, dummy
sections of pipe, swivel or change-over devices or sliding multi-part tubes or
other plumbing arrangements.
CROSS-CONNECTION, CONTAINMENT: The installation of an approved backflow
assembly at the water service connection to any customer's premises where it is
physically and economically infeasible to find and permanently eliminate or
control all actual or potential cross-connections within the customer's water
system; or, it shall mean the installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a portion of a customer's
water system where there are actual or potential cross-connections which cannot
be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of the cross-connection
(isolation).
CROSS-CONNECTION, CONTROLLED: A connection between a potable water system and a
nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly properly
installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the protection
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
PUBLIC WORKS MANAGER: The person designated to be in charge of the Water
Department of the City of Monticello, Utah, is vested with the authority and
the responsibility for the implementation of an effective cross-connection
control program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 91-1, 3-27-1991; 1996 Code)
8-3-3: RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A   City And Water System's Responsibilities:
      1   Drinking water system surveys or inspections of the consumer's water
distribution system shall be conducted or caused to be conducted by individuals
deemed qualified by and representing the City. Survey records shall indicate
compliance with the aforementioned health and safety standards.
      2   The City shall notify in writing, all consumers of the need for the
periodic system survey to ensure compliance with existing applicable minimum
health and safety standards.
      3   Selection of an approved backflow prevention assembly for containment
control required at the service entrance shall be determined from the results
of the system's survey.
   B   Consumer's Responsibilities:
      1   To comply with this Chapter as a term and condition of supply and
consumer's acceptance of service is admittance of his/her awareness and without
limitation, is deemed to be a consent to the inspections provided herein.
      2   It shall be the responsibility of the customer or consumer to
purchase, install, test and maintain any backflow prevention device or assembly
required to comply with this Chapter.
   C   Public Works Manager Responsibilities:
      1   The Public Works Manager's responsibility to enforce the applicable
sections of the Plumbing Code begins at the point of service (downstream or
consumer's side of the meter) and continues throughout the developed length of
the consumer's water system.
      2   The Public Works Manager will review all plans to ensure that
unprotected cross-connections are not an integral part of the consumer's water
system. If a cross-connection cannot be eliminated, it must be protected by the
installation of an air gap or an approved backflow prevention device or
assembly in accordance with the Utah Plumbing Code.
      3   Water vacating the drinking water supply must do so by an approved
air gap or approved mechanical backflow prevention assembly, properly installed
and in accordance with the Utah Plumbing Code.
   D   Certified Backflow Assembly Technician's, Surveyor's Or Repair Person's
Responsibilities:
      1   Whether employed by the consumer or a utility to survey, test,
repair, or maintain backflow prevention assemblies, the certified backflow
technicians, surveyors or repair persons will have the following
responsibilities:
         a   Ensuring acceptable testing equipment and procedures are used for
testing, repairing or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies.
         b   Make reports of such testing and/or repair to the consumer, City,
and the Division of Drinking Water on forms approved for such use by the
Division of Drinking Water, and within the time frames prescribed by the
Division of Drinking Water.
         c   The reports shall include the list of materials or replacement
parts used.
         d   Ensuring replacement parts are equal in quality to parts
originally supplied by the manufacturer of the assembly being repaired.
         e   Not changing the design, material or operational characteristics
of the assembly during testing, repair or maintenance.
      2   Certified technicians shall have the following responsibilities:
         a   Perform all tests of the mechanical devices or assemblies and be
responsible for the competence and accuracy of all tests and reports.
         b   Ensure that his/her license is current, the testing equipment
being used is acceptable to the State, and is in proper operating condition.
         c   Be equipped with and be competent to use, all necessary tools,
gauges, and other equipment necessary to properly test and maintain backflow
prevention assemblies.
         d   The certified technician conducting the test must tag each double
check valve, pressure vacuum breaker, reduced pressure backflow assembly and
high-hazard air gap, showing the serial number, date tested and by whom. The
license number must also be on this tag.
      3   In the case of a consumer requiring a commercially available
technician, any certified technician is authorized to make the test and report
the results of that test to the consumer, City and the Division of Drinking
Water. If such a commercially tested assembly is in need of repair, all repairs
shall be done by a licensed plumber. (Ord. 91-1, 3-27-1991; 1996 Code)
8-3-4: REQUIREMENTS:
   A   Protection Of Water Supply: No water service connection to any premises
shall permitted unless the water supply is protected as required by State laws,
regulations, codes, and this Chapter. Service of water to a consumer found to
be in violation of this Chapter shall be discontinued immediately, if:
      1   A backflow prevention assembly required by this Chapter for control
of backflow and cross-connections is not installed, tested, and maintained; or
      2   If it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been removed
or by-passed; or
      3   If an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises; or
      4   If the periodic system survey has not been conducted.
Service shall not be restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
   B   Inspection Of Customer's System: The customer's system shall be open for
inspection at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the City to
determine whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of this Chapter, exist and to audit the results of the
required survey.
   C   Installation Of Approved Backflow Prevention Assembly: Whenever the City
deems a service connection's water usage contributes a sufficient hazard to the
water supply, an approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on
the service line of the identified consumer's water system, at or near the
property line, or immediately inside the building being served; but, in all
cases, before the first branch line leading off the service line.
   D   Type Of Protective Assembly: The type of protective assembly required
depends upon the degree of hazard which exists at the point of cross-connection
(whether direct or indirect), applicable to local and State requirements or
resulting from the required survey.
   E   Previously Approved Assemblies: All presently installed backflow
prevention assemblies which do not meet the requirements of this Section but
were approved assemblies for the purposes described herein at the time of
installation and which have been properly maintained, shall, except for the
inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirements of
these rules so long as the City is assured that they will satisfactorily
protect the public water system. Whenever the existing assembly is moved from
the present location or, requires more than minimum maintenance or, when the
City finds that the operation or maintenance of this assembly constitutes a
hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by an approved backflow prevention
assembly meeting the local and State requirements.
   F   Inspection And Maintenance Requirements: It shall be the responsibility
of the consumer at any premises where backflow prevention assemblies are
installed to have certified surveys or inspections, and operational tests made
at least once per year at the consumer's expense. In those instances where the
City deems the hazard to be great, certified surveys or inspections and tests
at a more frequent interval may be required. It shall be the duty of the Public
Works Manager to see that these tests are made according to the standards set
forth by the Utah Department of Health, Division of Drinking Water.
   G   Testing Backflow Prevention Assemblies: All backflow prevention
assemblies shall be tested within ten (10) working days of initial
installation.
   H   Safety Hazards: No backflow prevention assembly shall be installed so as
to create a safety hazard. Example: Installed over any electrical panel, steam
pipes, boilers, pits, or above ceiling level. (Ord. 91-1, 3-27-1991; 1996 Code)
8-3-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
If violations of this Chapter exist or if there has not been any corrective
action taken by the consumer within a specified time period of deficiencies
noted in the survey, then the City shall deny service to the premises by
providing a physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected
the conditions in conformance with the State statutes and City ordinances
relating to plumbing, safe drinking water supplies and the regulations adopted
pursuant thereto. (Ord. 91-1, 3-27-1991; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Sewer Department
8-4-2: Use Of System Mandatory
8-4-3: Application For Service
8-4-4: Fees
8-4-5: Statement Of Charges; Delinquency
8-4-6: Installation And Connection To System
8-4-7: Pipe Requirements
8-4-8: Access By Department
8-4-9: Prohibited Uses And Regulations
8-4-1: SEWER DEPARTMENT:
   A   Direction And Control: The Sewer Department shall be under the direction
and control of the Public Works Manager. It shall comprise all of the property,
equipment and personnel necessary to the maintenance and operation of the
City's sewage collection and disposal system. (1978 Code § 14-211; 1996 Code)
   B   Duties: The Public Works Manager shall manage and supervise the City's
sewer system under the direction of the City Manager, which from time to time
shall by resolution or otherwise, prescribe his powers and duties and direct
the manner and frequency with which he shall make reports to the City Manager
relating to the sewer system. (1978 Code § 14-213; 1996 Code)
8-4-2: USE OF SYSTEM MANDATORY:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or any other person occupying or having
charge of any premises within the City which are located within three hundred
feet (300') of a sewer main to dispose of sewage therefrom by any means other
than by use of the City sewer system. It shall be unlawful to construct or to
continue the use of any other sewage disposal system or septic tank on the
property except by written approval of the City in cases of undue hardship.
(1978 Code § 14-220; 1996 Code)
8-4-3: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   A   Agreement: Any person who desires or is required to secure sewer service
when such service is available from the City sewer systems shall apply to the
City and file an agreement with the City to pay charges established for sewer
services, as fixed by resolution of the City Council. (1978 Code § 14-214; 1996
Code)
   B   Nonowner Applicants: Applications for sewer services made by the tenant
must, in addition to the above requirement, be guaranteed by an agreement
signed by the owner of the premises or his duly authorized agent. (1978 Code §
14-215; 1996 Code)
8-4-4: FEES:
   A   Service Rates And Connection Fees: The rates, penalty fee for
delinquency in payment and connection fees for sewer services from the City
sewer system shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the City
Council. The City Council may from time to time enact rules for levying,
billing, guaranteeing and collecting charges for sewer services and all other
rules necessary for the management and control of the sewer system. (1978 Code
§ 14-216; 1996 Code)
   B   Special Rates: The City Council may from time to time fix by agreement
or resolution special rates and conditions upon such terms as they may deem
proper for users of the sewer service discharging wastes of unusual
characteristics or making use thereof under exceptional circumstances. (1978
Code § 14-217)
8-4-5: STATEMENT OF CHARGES; DELINQUENCY:
   A   Statement: The business office shall furnish to each user or mail or
leave at his place or residence or usual place of business, a written or
printed statement stating the sewer service charges assessed against him once
each month or at such other regular intervals as the City Council shall direct.
The statement shall specify the amount of the bill, the place of payment, and
the date due.
   B   Notice Of Discontinuance: If any person fails to pay his sewer charges
within sixty (60) days of the date due, the business office shall give the
customer notice in writing of the intent to discontinue the service of water to
the premises unless the customer pays the bill in full within five (5) days
from date of notice.
   C   Delinquent Charges Paid Prior To Reconnection: If the water service is
thereafter discontinued for failure to make payment of the sewer service
charges, before the water service to the premises shall again be provided, all
delinquent sewer charges must have been paid to the City or arrangements made
for their payment that are satisfactory to the City.
   D   May Require Additional Charges: In the event water is turned off for
nonpayment of sewer charges, before the water service to the premises shall
again be provided, the customer shall pay, in addition to all delinquent
charges, such extra charge for turning the water on and off as the City Council
may have established by resolution or ordinance.
   E   Authorized To Enforce Collection: The City Manager is hereby authorized
to take all action necessary to enforce collection, including but not limited
to the commencement of legal proceedings in a court of proper jurisdiction
seeking judgment for the amount of the delinquent fees and service charges and
all costs of collection, including court costs and attorney fees. (1978 Code §
14-219; 1996 Code)
8-4-6: INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION TO SYSTEM:
   A   Encroachment Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
directly or indirectly engage in the laying, repairing, altering or connecting
of any drain or sewer pipe connected with or part of the City sewer system
without first having received an encroachment permit from the Zoning
Administrator. (1978 Code § 14-222; 1996 Code)
   B   Licensed Plumber; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person to
connect any drain or sewer pipe with the City sewer system unless the person is
a duly licensed plumber or unless, in the absence of a duly licensed plumber,
any proposed connection to, alteration of, or change of connection to the sewer
system shall be first submitted to the Public Works Manager for review and
approval. After such approval, the installation or work done shall be subject
to inspection by the Public Works Manager. (1978 Code § 14-221; 1996 Code)
   C   When Permits Shall Not Be Issued: Permits to connect to the City sewer
system shall not be issued unless the plumbing in the house or building to be
connected is in accordance with the provisions of the Building and Plumbing
Codes 1  of the City. (1978 Code § 14-223)
   D   Revocation Of Permit: All encroachment permits for sewer connections or
installations shall be issued to the plumber who is to do the work or to the
owner of the property, subject to the supervision and inspection by the Public
Works Manager or his agents. The City may at any time revoke a permit because
of defective work or because of undue delay in completing the permitted work.
(1978 Code § 14-224; 1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
8-4-7: PIPE REQUIREMENTS:
   A   Good Repair: All users of the sewer services shall keep their service
pipes, connections, and other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost
at their own expense. No person shall be allowed to dig into the street for the
purpose of removing or repairing any sewer service pipe or main, except with an
encroachment permit and under the direction from the Public Works Manager.
(1978 Code § 14-225; 1996 Code)
   B   Quality Of Service Pipe: All service and other pipes used in conjunction
with the sewer services of the City shall be in accordance with City standards
and specifications. All work, alterations or extensions affecting sewer pipes
shall be subject to the acceptance of the Public Works Manager, and no
connections with sewer mains shall be made without first obtaining an
encroachment permit. (1978 Code § 14-226; 1996 Code)
8-4-8: ACCESS BY DEPARTMENT:
The Public Works Manager and his agents shall at all ordinary hours have free
access to places supplied with sewer services from the City system for the
purpose of examining the apparatus, ascertaining the sewer service being used
and the manner of its use. (1978 Code § 14-227; 1996 Code)
8-4-9: PROHIBITED USES AND REGULATIONS:
   A   Scope: The City Council shall have power to and retains the right to
adopt regulations controlling the manner and circumstances under which the
sewer system may be used in addition to the regulatory provisions set forth
expressly in this Chapter. (1978 Code § 14-232)
   B   Flammables: It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, break or
remove any part or portion of any sewer appliance or appurtenance, or to
discharge into a sewer any flammable gas, gasoline or oil, any calcium carbide
or residue therefrom, or any liquid or other materials or substance which will
emit an flammable gas when in contact with water, sewage or fire. Oil
separators installed in any building where volatile fluids are used must not be
connected directly or indirectly with a sewer.
   C   Waste From Certain Establishments: The contents of waste pipes from
water filters, gas engines, air compressors, vacuum or dry cleaners, garages,
wash racks, stores or warehouses containing flammable substances, buildings for
the stabling or keeping of horses, cows and other animals, or plants using milk
or processing milk products, and all similar establishments shall not be
disposed of through connection with a sanitary sewer unless such contents are
discharged into settling tanks or sumps which are properly trapped and vented.
The construction of such tanks must be approved by the City, and must be
subject to inspection, approval, or condemnation before cement is poured and at
all times thereafter until completion of such construction. Upon condemnation
by the City, the sewage from the tanks shall not be allowed to flow into the
sewer until satisfactory alterations have been made and the construction
approved by the City.
   D   Obstructive Materials: It shall be unlawful for any person to empty or
discharge into the public sanitary sewer any garbage, refuse or other similar
matter or substance likely to obstruct the sewer, or any substance, solid or
liquid other than the waste products for which the sewer is provided.
   E   Drainage Waters And Destructive Materials: It shall be unlawful for any
person to connect with a public sanitary sewer any drain or pipe which
discharges rain water, cellar or surface water, acids, alkalies, lye or other
injurious liquids, or the contents of any spring, flowing well, creek, ditch,
or other water courses. No boiler or heating plant shall be directly connected
to the sanitary sewer. The overflow from boilers or heating plants, when cooled
to a temperature not to exceed one hundred twenty degrees (120°) Fahrenheit,
will be allowed to run to a sump, which sump shall be connected to the sewer.
The discharge of the contents of waste pipes from water filters, gas engines,
air compressors, vacuum or dry cleaners, garages, wash racks, stores or
warehouses which contain flammable substances, buildings, for the stabling or
keeping of horses, cows and other animals, and all similar establishments,
shall not be made into or connected with a sanitary sewer, unless such contents
are discharged into settling tanks properly trapped and vented. Settling tanks
shall be constructed of a material approved by the Public Works Manager and
shall be at all times subject to his inspection and approval or condemnation.
Upon condemnation by the Public Works Manager, the sewage from said tanks shall
not be allowed to flow into sewer until satisfactory alterations have been made
and the construction approved by the Public Works Manager. (1978 Code § 14-231;
1996 Code)
   F   Destruction Of System: It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy,
deface, injure or interfere with the operation of any part or appurtenance of
the sewer system. (1978 Code § 14-235)
   G   Ownership Of Connecting Lines: All connecting lines leading from a
resident's premises to the sewer main shall be deemed to be the property of the
property owner, and maintenance and repair of the connecting lines shall be the
responsibility of the property owner. (1996 Code)
   H   Sewer Manholes: It shall be unlawful for any person, other than City
representatives, to open any sewer man-hole. (1978 Code § 14-234; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Use Required
8-5-3: Private Wastewater Disposal
8-5-4: Building Sewers
8-5-5: Use Of Public Sewers
8-5-6: Damage To Facilities
8-5-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-5-8: Occupant Held Harmless For Injury
8-5-9: Hearing Board For Arbitration
8-5-10: Annual Review Of Charges By City
8-5-11: Statement Of Charges; Delinquency
8-5-12: Penalty
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
HEARING BOARD: That board appointed according to provisions of section
8-5-9 of this chapter.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or business
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
MAY: Is permissive (see definition of Shall).
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven (7) and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 107.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
SEWAGE: The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL: Is mandatory (see May).
SLUDGE: Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty
four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation and shall
adversely affect the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater
treatment works.
STORM DRAIN: A drain or sewer for conveying water, ground water, subsurface
water, or unpolluted water from any source (sometimes termed "storm sewer").
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
VOLUME: The total volume of water discharged to wastewater system.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "water
pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 81-1, 2-4-1981; 1996 Code)
8-5-2: USE REQUIRED:
   A   Install Suitable Facilities: The owner of all houses, buildings, or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes,
situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley, or right of way in
which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the City, is hereby required at the owner's expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so;
provided, that said public sewer is within three hundred feet (300') of the
property line.
   B   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful:
      1   For any person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the City, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage or
other objectionable waste.
      2   To discharge to any natural outlet within the City, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the City, any sewage or other polluted waters, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this Chapter.
      3   Except as hereinafter provided, to construct or maintain any facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater. (Ord. 81-1, 2-4-1981; 1996
Code)
8-5-3: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A   Compliance With Provisions: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is
not available under the provisions of subsection
8-5-2A above, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this Section.
   B   Encroachment Permit Required; Fee: Before commencement of construction
of a private wastewater disposal system the owner shall first obtain an
encroachment permit. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the City. The applicant shall furnish plans, specifications, and
other information as are deemed necessary by the City. A permit and inspection
fee, as established by resolution of the City Council, shall be paid to the
City at the time the application is filed.
   C   System Requirements: The type, capacities, location and layout of a
private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the
Southeastern Utah District Health Department. No permit shall be issued for any
private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the area of the lot is less than one-half (1/2) acre. No
wastewater disposal system shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
   D   Final Inspection Prior To Approval: Authorization to use a private
wastewater disposal system shall not be granted until the installation is
completed to the satisfaction of the City. The Public Works Manager shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction. In any event, the
owner shall notify the City when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within forty eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice.
   E   Maintenance By Owner: The owner shall operate and maintain the private
wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense
to the City.
   F   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this Section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the Health Inspector.
   G   Availability Of Connection To Public System: At such time as a public
sewer becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal
system, as provided in subsection
8-5-2A above, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within
ninety (90) days in compliance with this Chapter, and any private wastewater
disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable
material. (Ord. 81-1, 2-4-1981; 1996 Code)
8-5-4: BUILDING SEWERS:
   A   Encroachment Permit Required: No person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining an encroachment permit from the
City.
   B   Types Of Connections: There shall be three (3) classes of building sewer
permits: 1) for residential; 2) for commercial service; and 3) for service to
establishments producing industrial wastes.
   C   Application; Fees: In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the City. The application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the City. Permit, connection and inspection fees,
as established by resolution of the City Council, shall be paid to the City at
the time the application is filed.
   D   Owner Responsible For Costs; Indemnification: All costs and expense
incidental to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be
borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
   E   Separate Building Sewer For Each Building; Exception: A separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building. Exception:
Where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot with a
single owner, and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer. The City does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection aforementioned.
   F   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on inspection and test
by a licensed plumber, to meet all requirements of this Chapter.
   G   Installation Regulations:
      1   Size, Slope And Materials: The size, slope, alignment, materials of
construction of all sanitary sewers including building sewers, and the methods
to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the Building
and Plumbing Codes 1 , or other applicable rules and regulations of the City.
      2   Elevation: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
      3   Disposal Of Polluted Surface Drainage: No person shall make
connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains, or other
sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer
unless such connection is approved by the Public Works Manager for purposes of
disposal of polluted surface drainage.
      4   Connection To Conform With Applicable Codes: The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Codes, or other applicable rules and regulations of the
City. All such connections shall be made gas tight and water tight and verified
by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the Public Works Manager before installation.
      5   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored according to City standards and
specifications.
   H   Notification For Inspection: The owner of the building sewer connection
shall notify the City when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under
the supervision of the Public Works Manager or his representative. (Ord. 81-1,
2-4-1981; 1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
8-5-5: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A   Storm Water Discharge:
      1   Prohibited: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any
unpolluted waters such as storm water, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sewer, except storm water
runoff from limited areas, which storm water may be polluted at times, may be
discharged to the sanitary sewer by written permission of the City.
      2   Exception: Storm water, other than that exempted under subsection
8-5-5A1 above, and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the City and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the City, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   B   Discharge Of Water Or Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      1   Flammables: Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2   Toxic Or Poisonous Solids: Any waters containing toxic or poisonous
solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
system, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
or have an adverse effect on the waters receiving any discharge from the
treatment works.
      3   pH Level: Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having
any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater works.
      4   Solid Or Viscous Substances: Solid or viscous substances in
quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in
sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the wastewater
facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw,
shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage,
whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes,
cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   C   Restricted Water Or Wastes: The following described substances,
materials, waters, or waste shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems
to concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers,
wastewater treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public
property, or constitute a nuisance. The City may set limitations lower than the
limitations established in the regulations below such more severe limitations
are necessary to meet the above objectives. In deciding the acceptability, the
City will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste
in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the
wastewater lagoon system, degree of impact of the waste in the wastewater
lagoon system and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on
materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary
sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the City are as follows:
      1   High Temperature: Wastewater having a temperature higher than one
hundred fifty degrees (150°) Fahrenheit (65° Celsius).
      2   Containing Oils: Wastewater containing more than twenty five
milligrams (25 ml.) per liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils
or product of mineral oil origin.
      3   Floatable Oils: Wastewater from industrial plants containing
floatable oils, fat or grease.
      4   Unproperly Shredded Garbage: Any garbage that has not been "properly
shredded", as defined herein. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary
sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when
served by caterers.
      5   Toxic Substances: Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium,
copper, zinc and similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that
any such material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
lagoons exceeds the limits established by the City for such materials.
      6   Odor-Producing Substances: Any waters or wastes containing odor-
producing substances exceeding limits which may be established by the City.
      7   Radioactive Wastes: Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the City in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8   Discharge Of Sludge: Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which
constitute a "sludge" as defined herein.
      9   Substances Not Amenable To Treatment: Waters or wastes containing
substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the wastewater
lagoon system employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that
the wastewater lagoon system effluent cannot meet the requirements of other
agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
      10   Obnoxious Gases: Any water or wastes which, by interaction with
other water or wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form
suspended solids which interfere with the collection system or create a
condition deleterious to structures and lagoon system processes.
   D   Action May Be Taken By City:
      1   Discharge Of Waters Or Wastes Containing Unapproved Substances: If
any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection
8-5-5C above, and which in the judgment of the City may have a deleterious
effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the City may:
         a   Reject the wastes;
         b   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
         d   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of subsection
8-5-5I below.
      2   Consideration Of Economic Impact: When considering the above
alternative, the City shall give consideration to the economic impact of each
alternative on the discharger. If the City permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Public Works
Manager.
   E   Interceptors May Be Necessary: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall
be provided when, in the opinion of the Public Works Manager, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease
in excessive amounts as specified in subsection
8-5-5C3 above, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters
or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the Public Works Manager and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal
by appropriate means of the captivated material and shall maintain records of
the dates and means of disposal, which are subject to review by the Public
Works Manager. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed
by owner's personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal
firms.
   F   Maintenance Of Pretreatment Facilities: Where pretreatment or flow-
equalizing facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense.
   G   May Require Specific Structures: When required by the City, the owner of
any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall
install a suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly
and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the City. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   H   Information Needed To Determine Compliance: The City may require a user
of sewer services to provide information needed to determine compliance with
this Chapter. These requirements may include:
      1   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      2   Chemical analyses of wastewaters.
      3   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      4   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or
other materials important to sewer use control.
      5   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location.
      6   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      7   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the City sewer.
   I   Measurements, Tests And Analysis: All measurements, tests and analysis
of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this
Chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American
Public Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by
the City.
   J   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this Section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the City
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the City for treatment. (Ord. 81-1, 2-4-1981; 1996
Code)
8-5-6: DAMAGE TO FACILITIES:
No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord.
81-1, 2-4-1981)
8-5-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A   Permission To Enter All Properties:
      1   The Public Works Manager and other duly authorized employees of the
City bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
      2   The Public Works Manager and other duly authorized employees of the
City bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   B   Authorized To Obtain Information: The Public Works Manager or other duly
authorized employees are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial
processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to
the wastewater collection system. The industry may withhold information
considered confidential if the industry can establish that the revelation to
the public of the information in question might result in an advantage to
competitors. (Ord. 81-1, 2-4-1981; 1996 Code)
8-5-8: OCCUPANT HELD HARMLESS FOR INJURY:
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in
subsection
8-5-7A1 above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the City
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
occupant, and the occupant shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
City employees resulting from failure to observe the applicable safety rules,
and the City shall indemnify the occupant against loss or damage to its
property by City employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company growing out of
the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence
or failure of the occupant to maintain safe conditions as required in
subsection
8-5-5B2 above. (Ord. 81-1, 2-4-1981)
8-5-9: HEARING BOARD FOR ARBITRATION:
The City Council shall constitute a Hearing Board for arbitration of
differences between the City and sewer users on matters concerning
interpretation and execution of the provisions of this Chapter. The cost of the
arbitration will be divided equally between the City and the sewer user. (Ord.
81-1, 2-4-1981; 1996 Code)
8-5-10: ANNUAL REVIEW OF CHARGES BY CITY:
The city shall review the total cost of operation and maintenance as well as
each user's wastewater contribution percentage annually. Rates will be revised
as necessary to assure equity of the system established and to assure that
sufficient funds are obtained to: a) adequately operate and maintain the
wastewater treatment works; b) cover debt service related to sewer; and c)
provide for adequate reserves. If a significant user, such as an industry, has
completed in-plant modifications which would change that user's wastewater
contribution percentage, the user can present at a regularly scheduled meeting
of the city council, such factual information. The city shall then determine if
the user's wastewater contribution percentage is to be changed and shall notify
the user of its findings as soon as possible. (Ord. 2000-5, 12-13-2000)
8-5-11: STATEMENT OF CHARGES; DELINQUENCY:
   A   Sewer User Charge System: The sewer user charge system (USC) is a
mechanism used to assess fees to the users of the wastewater system for its
use, repayment of debt service, and accumulation of necessary and reasonable
reserves. The USC is based on a residential equivalent, i.e., the flow or
quality (BOD or SS) of sewage equivalent to "normal" household sewage.
Number of equivalent residential users (ERUs):
      1   Each residential household will be considered equal to one ERU.
      2   Other users will be charged for service on an equivalent residential
unit (ERU) basis. An ERU is deemed to be calculated on the consumption of ten
thousand (10,000) gallons of culinary water per month. The ERU determination
will be reviewed and adjusted annually.
   B   Statement: The city shall furnish each user, or mail to, or leave at his
place of residence or usual place of business, a written or printed statement
stating thereon the amount of sewer service charges assessed against him once
each month or at such other regular interval as the city council shall direct.
The statement shall specify the amount of the bill for the sewer service and
the place of payment and date due.
   C   Failure To Pay: If any person fails to pay the service charges within
sixty (60) days of the date due, the city shall give the customer notice in
writing of intent to discontinue the service to the customer unless the
customer pays the bill in full within five (5) days from the date of notice.
   D   Payment Of Delinquent Charges: If the service is thereafter discontinued
for failure to make payment, then before the service to the premises shall
again be provided, all delinquent charges must have been paid or arrangements
made for payment in a manner satisfactory to the city. In the event water is
turned off for nonpayment of charges, then before the service to the premises
shall again be provided, the customer shall pay, in addition to all delinquent
water and sewer charges, such extra charge for turning the water on and off as
the city council may establish by resolution. Furthermore, in addition to such
payments and penalties, a delinquent customer may be required to make and file
a new application and deposit if the previous deposit has theretofore been
applied to the payment of delinquent bills. The treasurer is hereby authorized
and empowered to enforce the payment of all delinquent charges by an action at
law in the name of the city. (Ord. 2000-5, 12-13-2000)
8-5-12: PENALTY:
   A   Violation Of Chapter: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
8-5-6 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B   Continuance Of Violation: Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in subsection A of this section, shall be
guilty of a class C misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-6 of this code. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   C   Violator Liable For Expenses: Any person violating any of the provisions
of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 81-1, 2-4-1981; amd.
1996 Code; Ord. 2000-5, 12-13-2000)
CHAPTER 6
WATER CONSERVATION
SECTION:
8-6-1: Time Limitations
8-6-2: Wastefulness Unlawful
8-6-3: Additional Limitations
8-6-4: Penalties
8-6-1: TIME LIMITATIONS:
There shall be no overhead watering permitted between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., or at any time under windy
conditions, for the watering of lawns or other landscaping.
(Exception: Permission may be granted by the city manager for the watering of
new lawns or landscape planted during the current water season, under certain
terms and conditions, if requested.) (Ord. 2013-3, 5-14-2013)
8-6-2: WASTEFULNESS UNLAWFUL 1 :
It shall remain unlawful for any person to waste water or to affect the
pressure or supply of the city water system by excessive use of water:
   A   Any watering of crops used for animal consumption.
   B   Filling of ponds.
   C   Livestock water/filling of water tanks.
   D   No airborne sprinkling during rainstorms. (Ord. 2013-3, 5-14-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections
  8-1-15 and 8-1-16 of this title.
8-6-3: ADDITIONAL LIMITATIONS:
This chapter shall not prevent the governing body from further limiting water
use as may be deemed necessary when there is a scarcity of water (section
8-1-14 of this title). (Ord. 2006-1, 5-31-2006)
8-6-4: PENALTIES:
Violators of this chapter shall be subject to fees/surcharges (refer to the
consolidated fee schedule www.monticelloutah.org) and/or termination of city
services. (Ord. 2013-3, 5-14-2013)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Building Inspector
9-1-3: Building Permit Required
9-1-4: Fee Schedule
9-1-5: Penalty; Exception
9-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
The international building code, the international residential code, the
international plumbing code, the international mechanical code, and the
international fuel gas code, latest editions, published by the International
Code Council, including all attachments and appendix chapters, as adopted and
amended by the state of Utah, which have been filed for use and examination by
the public in the office of the zoning administrator, are hereby approved and
adopted, and shall hereinafter collectively be known as the "building codes" of
the city. (Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
9-1-2: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A   Designated: Until such time as a permanent building inspector is
appointed, the San Juan County building inspector is hereby designated as the
building inspector for the city. (1996 Code)
   B   Powers:
      1   The building inspector shall have the power to order all work stopped
on construction, alteration or repairs of buildings in the city when such work
is being done in violation of any provisions of any ordinance relating thereto,
or in violation of this city code, title 10, "Zoning Regulations", or title 11,
"Subdivision Regulations". Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of such
order except on the written permission of the inspector; provided that, if the
stop order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within
one hour. Such written stop order may be served by any peace officer or other
authorized person. (Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
      2   The building inspector shall have the power to enter into any
building or the premises where the work of altering, repairing or constructing
any building or structure is going on, for the purpose of making inspections at
any reasonable hour, pursuant to any of the provisions of this title. (1978
Code § 9-513; amd. 1996 Code)
   C   Duties: The building inspector shall, in addition to all other duties
imposed on him by the city:
      1   Enforce the provisions of the building codes adopted by the city.
(Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
      2   Inspect all buildings, structures, ditches, signs, fences and objects
to determine their safety and effect on the persons who are within the city.
      3   Until such time as a plumbing inspector is appointed or designated,
the building inspector shall be responsible for enforcing title 9, chapter 3 of
this code.
      4   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building site is in a location
that has a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or substantial
improvement (including prefabricated and mobile homes) must:
         a   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
         b   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         c   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      5   Review subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments to
assure that:
         a   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
         b   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage; and
         c   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      6   Require new or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary
sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters,
and require on site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid
impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding. (1978 Code § 9-
514)
9-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A   Application And Plans: A building permit shall be secured from the
zoning administrator on written application, accompanied by plans and
specifications in duplicate, which must state the specific nature of the
construction or alterations to be made. The plan must be verified by the
contractor who will perform or be in charge of the construction or alteration.
The zoning administrator shall review and determine whether the proposed
construction or alteration conforms to the zoning regulations of the city.
(Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
      1   Contractor: Any person, firm, copartnership, corporation,
association, or other organization, or any combination thereof, who for a fixed
sum, price, fee, percentage, or other compensation other than wages, undertakes
any building, highway, road, excavation or other structure, project,
development, or improvement, or any part thereof; provided, that the term
"contractor", as used in this chapter, shall include anyone who builds more
than one structure on his own property during any one year for the purpose of
sale and shall include subcontractors, but shall not include anyone who merely
furnishes materials or supplies without fabricating the same into, or consuming
the same in the performance of the work of the "contractors" as herein defined.
      2   Types Of Contractors: As an illustrative list of contractors subject
to the provisions of this chapter, but not in limitation thereof, the following
occupations are subject to this chapter: general contractors, specialty
contractors of all kinds, such as, but not limited to those engaged in the
business of installing, repairing or otherwise performing services in
connection with: acoustical tile and roof decking; awnings, storm doors and
windows; air conditioning, dry heating, sheet metal; boilers, steam fitting;
carpentry; cement and concrete; ceramic tile; cabinet and millwork; composition
floor, countertops, tile; carpet; drywall; elevator installation; electrical;
excavating and grading; fencing; floor coverings; fire prevention (structural);
furnaces and burners; glazing; industrial piping; iron and bronze (ornamental);
insulation; landscaping; lathing; lawn sprinklers; masonry; mosaic tile and
terazzo; overhead doors; painting and paper hanging; pest control (structural);
plastering; plumbing and wet heating; roofing and siding; swimming pool; signs,
stone masonry; sewer installation; steel reinforcing and erection; tanks
(structural); waterproofing; weatherstripping; welding; wrecking and
demolition; wood floor laying and finishing. (1978 Code § 9-432; amd. 1996
Code)
   B   Variations Of Plan Prohibited: No material variation from the approved
plan shall be allowed unless such variations shall first have been approved in
writing by the building inspector. (1978 Code § 9-524)
   C   Approval Of Plan: The application and plans shall be forwarded from the
zoning administrator to the building inspector, who shall review the plan to
determine whether the proposed construction or alteration conforms to the
building codes and ordinances of the city. The building inspector shall return
the plans to the zoning administrator within ten (10) days with the statement
"approved" if the plans do conform, or "disapproved" if the plans do not
conform. If the plans are disapproved, the reasons therefor shall be attached
to the plans. On receipt of an approved plan, the zoning administrator shall
issue a permit to the applicant, together with one set of the approved plan.
One set of the plans shall be retained by the building inspector. The building
inspector may revoke at any time a permit which has been issued for any
building constructed or being constructed or which would result, if
constructed, in violation of any ordinance of the city or the building codes.
(Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
   D   Records Maintained; Inspection: All persons registered pursuant to this
chapter for the privilege of doing business as contractors, and all persons who
engage in doing business as contractors, shall maintain records of all services
performed by them as contractors within the corporate limits of the city. The
records shall disclose the person for whom the services are performed and the
contract price or charge made for the services and such other information as
the city council may, by regulation, require. The persons shall maintain such
records at their office or principal place of business and shall permit
officials or agents of the city to inspect said records for the purpose of
determining whether or not said persons have complied with the requirements of
this chapter. (1978 Code § 9-437)
9-1-4: FEE SCHEDULE:
The city shall collect a fee for the building permit which shall be established
by resolution of the city council. (1978 Code § 9-525; amd. 1996 Code)
9-1-5: PENALTY; EXCEPTION:
   A   It shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-6 of this code, for any homeowner and a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-6 of this code, for any person who receives payment or anything of value to
construct or alter any building or structure, except a fence, without first
securing the permit required by this chapter.
   B   This section shall not apply where the retail cost of the materials used
in the construction or alteration is less than five hundred dollars ($500.00),
except that it shall apply in all cases where the construction or alteration
results in an enlarged structure or affects the walls of the building or
structure. (1978 Code § 9-521; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Electrical Code Adopted
9-2-2: Enforcement Official
9-2-3: Building Permit Required
9-2-4: Fees
9-2-5: Electrical Installations
9-2-6: Inspection
9-2-7: Electrical Disturbances
9-2-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The national electrical code, latest edition, published by the International
Conference of Building Officials and printed as a code in book form, which has
been filed with the zoning administrator for use and examination by the public,
hereby is approved and adopted as the electrical code of the city. (Ord. 96-2,
3-27-1996, eff. 4-1-1996; amd. 1996 Code)
9-2-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The building inspector shall perform all functions of electrical inspection and
shall, among other things, inspect and supervise the construction,
installation, and repairs of all electric light and power wiring, fixtures,
appliances, or apparatus installed within the limits of the city and shall
require compliance with the provisions of the electrical code. Wiring,
fixtures, and apparatus heretofore installed need not necessarily be made to
conform strictly to all the provisions of the electrical code. The building
inspector shall require the correction of such defects as he deems actually
dangerous to life or property. Those same enforcement standards established in
the building codes shall be followed by the building inspector for all
electrical work. (Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
9-2-3: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
No alterations or additions shall be made in existing wiring, nor shall any
wiring or any apparatus which generates, transmits, transforms or utilizes any
electricity be installed without first obtaining a building permit therefor,
except minor repair work such as repairing flush and snap switches, replacing
fuses, changing lamp sockets and receptacles, taping bare joints and repairing
drop cords. Applications for such permit describing such work shall be made in
writing and shall conform as far as practicable to the requirement set forth in
subsection
9-1-3A of this title. This section shall not apply to installations in
powerhouses and substations belonging to electric companies. No permit shall be
issued to any applicant for a permit during the time that he shall fail to
correct any defective electrical installations after he has been duly notified
to correct such defective work by the building inspector. (1978 Code § 9-542;
amd. 1996 Code)
9-2-4: FEES:
   A   Established: The permit fees applicable in the city for use under the
national electrical code shall be established by resolution of the city
council.
   B   Exception: No fee shall be charged where the total cost of the work is
estimated to be less than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (1978 Code § 9-543;
amd. 1996 Code)
9-2-5: ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS:
   A   Licensed Contractor Required: No person shall engage in the
installation, alteration, or construction of any electrical work, wiring,
fixtures, or equipment inside or outside of any building, except work done for
or on the property of the city, who is not licensed as an electrical contractor
by the state of Utah. (1978 Code § 9-551; amd. 1996 Code)
   B   Notification To City: It shall be unlawful for any person to do or cause
to be done any electrical wiring or other electrical installation in the
building or structure within the city without first notifying the zoning
administrator or building inspector of the kind and nature of such electric
wiring or other electrical installation and the location of the building or
structure in which the same is to be installed. (1978 Code § 9-552; amd. 1996
Code)
   C   Subject To Supervision And Inspection: All electric wiring or other
electrical installations shall be subject to supervision and inspection by the
Building Inspector. It shall be unlawful for any person to do or cause to be
done any electrical wiring or electrical installations without first obtaining
the permit required by Section
9-2-3 of this Chapter. (1978 Code § 9-553)
   D   Unlawful Installation:
      1   Disconnection; Seal: If the Building Inspector shall find any part of
any electric light or power wiring, apparatus, or fixtures in or upon any
building in the City to have been installed without permit, or installed not in
accordance with the provisions of the Electrical Code or to be dangerous to
life or property, the Inspector shall have the right and power to disconnect
such defective work, fixtures, or apparatus and place a seal upon the same, and
shall at the same time give written notice of such disconnection to the owner
or occupant of the building.
      2   Removal Of Seal: After such disconnected wiring, fixtures, or
apparatus have been put in the condition required by this Chapter, the seal so
placed shall be removed by order of the Inspector. (1978 Code § 9-554; 1996
Code)
9-2-6: INSPECTION:
   A   Notification To Building Inspector; Issuance Of Certificate: Upon
completion of the installation of any electrical wiring, fixtures, or apparatus
in or on any building, it shall be the duty of the person doing the work to
notify the Building Inspector, who shall cause the same to be inspected and, if
approved, to issue a certificate of inspection which shall contain the date of
such inspection and a statement that the installation is approved.
   B   Unlawful To Connect Current Without Certificate: It shall be unlawful
for any person to turn on or connect the current with such installation until
such certificate shall be issued and it shall also be unlawful to make any
change, alteration, or extension in or to the installation of any electrical
wiring, fixtures, or apparatus in or on any building after inspection without
notifying the Building Inspector and securing a permit to do so.
   C   Exception: The requirement of permits, inspection, and supervision shall
not apply to minor repair work such as repairing flush and snap switches,
replacing fuses, changing lamp sockets and receptacles, taping bare joints, and
repairing drop cords, and wiring for appliances and devices operating at less
than twenty five (25) volts. (1978 Code § 9-555; 1996 Code)
9-2-7: ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCES:
   A   Declared Nuisance: Electrical installations for signs, equipment, or
other facilities which create electrical disturbances that cause interference
with normal radio or television reception beyond the immediate vicinity of such
electrical installations are hereby declared to be a nuisance. The owners or
operators thereof shall so install and maintain such installations as to avoid
or eliminate such interference, using all known means and devices for such
purpose, such as proper grounding, connections, condensers, resistors, and live
chokes.
   B   Abatement: The Zoning Administrator or Building Inspector may withhold
or withdraw approval of any electrical installation causing the above
disturbance, and are hereby authorized to take all steps necessary for the
abatement of such conditions. (1978 Code § 9-544; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
9-3-2: Scope
9-3-3: Permits
9-3-4: Fees
9-3-5: Allowance For Exception
9-3-6: Right Of Entry
9-3-7: Power To Condemn
9-3-8: Penalty
9-3-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
The international plumbing code, latest edition, published by the International
Code Council, including all attachments and appendix chapters, as adopted and
amended by the state of Utah, which has been filed for use and examination by
the public in the office of the zoning administrator, is hereby approved and
adopted as the plumbing code of the city, except as otherwise altered or
modified by the ordinances of the city. (Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
9-3-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to, but not be limited to, all new
construction, relocated buildings, and to any installation, alteration, repair
or reconstruction of a plumbing system within the city, except as otherwise
provided for in this chapter. (1978 Code § 9-562)
9-3-3: PERMITS:
   A   Building Permit Required: No plumbing shall be installed, nor additions
or alterations made in existing plumbing, except as provided in subsection C of
this section, without first obtaining a building permit from the zoning
administrator. No permit shall be issued to any applicant who is not licensed
as a plumbing contractor by the state of Utah. (1978 Code § 9-568; amd. 1996
Code)
   B   Homeowner's Permit: Any permit required by this chapter may be issued to
any person to do any plumbing or drainage work regulated by this chapter in a
single-family dwelling used exclusively for living purposes, including the
usual accessory buildings and quarters in connection with such buildings in the
event that any such person is the bona fide owner of any such dwelling and
accessory buildings and quarters and that the same are occupied by or designed
to be occupied by the owner, and further; provided, that the owner shall
furnish the building inspector with a complete layout drawing of the proposed
work, satisfies the building inspector that he has a working knowledge of the
requirements contained in this chapter, pays the necessary fees, and calls for
all inspections required by this chapter. (1978 Code § 9-573; amd. 1996 Code)
   C   Exceptions:
      1   Repairs which involve only the working parts of a faucet or valve,
the clearance of stoppages, the repairing of leaks or the replacement of
defective faucets or valves may be made without a permit; provided, that the
permits shall be procured to replace fixtures, traps, soil, waste, and vent
pipes unless waived by the building inspector.
      2   Any person regularly employed by an owner or lessee of property, or
his agents, for the sole purpose of operating and maintaining such property and
to make minor repairs thereof, and any owner or lessee of property, shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter when doing work for which permits
are not required. (1978 Code § 9-572; amd. 1996 Code)
   D   Denial: The zoning administrator may refuse to issue permits for any
plumbing work to any person who has had a permit revoked in accordance with
this chapter during such time as such person fails to perform plumbing work in
conformance with this chapter. (1978 Code § 9-571; amd. 1996 Code)
   E   Expiration: Every permit issued by the zoning administrator shall expire
and become null and void if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced
within sixty (60) days from the date such permit is issued, or if the work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work
is commenced for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days or more. (1978 Code
§ 9-570; 1996 Code)
   F   Revocation: The Zoning Administrator or Building Inspector may revoke
any permit when the person to whom the permit is issued fails, neglects, or
refuses to do the work thereunder in conformance with this Chapter, or when the
permit is issued in error. (1978 Code § 9-569; 1996 Code)
9-3-4: FEES:
   A   Plumbing And Inspection: Before a permit shall be issued, permit fees
for plumbing and plumbing inspection shall be paid. The fees shall be as
established by resolution of the City Council. (1978 Code § 9-574; 1996 Code)
   B   Reinspection Charge: After notice that any plumbing work is ready for
inspection if the Building Inspector calls at the place designated to make such
inspection and finds the work not ready for inspection, he shall charge a
reinspection fee for each additional inspection required, which the City
Council shall set from time to time by resolution. (1978 Code § 9-575; 1996
Code)
9-3-5: ALLOWANCE FOR EXCEPTION:
Where structural conditions impose extreme difficulty in fully complying with
the plumbing regulations of this Chapter, any aggrieved party may apply in
writing to the Zoning Administrator for special permission to deviate from the
regulations. If, in the judgment of the Building Inspector, such deviation is
reasonable and does not create an unsanitary or unsafe condition, he shall
recommend to the City that the request for deviation be approved or
disapproved, or that approval is subject to such conditions as the City may
require. The Zoning Administrator, on review, may approve or disapprove the
application or vary the conditions on which approval is granted. (1978 Code §
9-564; 1996 Code)
9-3-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The Building Inspector shall have the right of entry within reasonable hours to
any building or premise for the purpose of inspection or to investigate any
work or conditions governed by this Chapter. (1978 Code § 9-565; 1996 Code)
9-3-7: POWER TO CONDEMN:
   A   Penalty: The Building Inspector is hereby empowered to condemn and order
repaired, removed, replaced or changed any plumbing found in any unsanitary
condition or not in accordance with this part. Failure to comply with the order
within a reasonable time is an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-6 of this Code. (1978 Code § 9-566; 1996 Code)
   B   Refusal To Comply: It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or occupant
of any building or premises to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, remove,
replace or change within ten (10) days after written notice to do so from the
Building Inspector, any plumbing condemned by such Inspector; provided, that
this subsection shall not apply to any occupant not responsible for the
installation or repair of the condemned plumbing. (1978 Code § 9-576; 1996
Code)
9-3-8: PENALTY:
   A   Homeowner, Building Owner Or Manager: The violation of any provision of
this Chapter by any homeowner, building owner or manager of any building,
apartment, hotel, motel or other structure shall be an infraction and subject
to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-6 of this Code.
   B   Person Receiving Payment: The violation of any provision of this Chapter
by any person who receives payment or anything of value for performing such
work shall be a Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-6 of this Code. (1978 Code § 9-577; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Mechanical Code Adopted
9-4-2: Penalty
9-4-1: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The international mechanical code, latest edition, and the international fuel
gas code, latest edition, published by the International Code Council,
including all attachments and appendix chapters, as adopted and amended by the
state of Utah, which have been filed for use and examination by the public in
the office of the zoning administrator, are hereby approved and adopted as the
mechanical code of the city. (Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
9-4-2: PENALTY:
   A   Homeowner, Building Owner Or Manager: The violation of any provision of
the enacted mechanical code by any homeowner, building owner or manager of any
building, apartment, hotel, motel or other structure shall be an infraction and
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-6 of this code.
   B   Person Receiving Payment: The violation of any provision of the enacted
mechanical code by any person who receives payment or anything of value for
performing such work shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-6 of this code. (Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Fire Code Adopted
9-5-2: Definitions
9-5-3: Amendments To Code
9-5-4: Duties Of Fire Chief
9-5-5: Limitations And Storage Of Flammables Restricted
9-5-6: Map
9-5-7: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies May Require Permits
9-5-8: Appeals
9-5-9: Penalty
9-5-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
The international fire code, latest edition, published by the International
Code Council, including all attachments and appendix chapters, as adopted and
amended by the state of Utah, which has been filed for use and examination by
the public in the office of the zoning administrator, is hereby approved and
adopted as the fire code of the city, except to the extent it is hereinafter
modified or amended, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and protecting property from fire or explosion.
(Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
9-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
CORPORATION COUNSEL: As used in the fire code, shall mean the attorney for the
city.
JURISDICTION: As used in the fire code, shall mean the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
9-5-3: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Any amendments to the fire code shall be set forth in the appropriate appendix
to such code, which shall be filed in the office of the zoning administrator.
(Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
9-5-4: DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF:
   A   Enforcement: The fire code shall be enforced by the fire department and
shall be operated under the supervision of the fire chief, who shall be
appointed by the governing body. (Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
   B   Appointment Of Assistant: The fire chief shall recommend to the city
manager the appointment of an assistant fire chief. The position shall be open
only to members of the fire department. (Ord. 92-3, 5-13-1992; amd. 1996 Code)
9-5-5: LIMITATIONS AND STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES RESTRICTED:
   A   New Bulk Plants Or Terminals: No new bulk plants or terminals (as
defined in the latest edition of the fire code) shall be established except
within the areas designated on the map in section
9-5-6 of this chapter.
   B   Limits On Bulk Storage Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases: The limits
established in the latest edition of the fire code are applicable.
   C   Storage Of Explosives And Blasting Agents: The establishment of storage
magazines referred to in the latest edition of the fire code is prohibited
within the city. (Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
9-5-6: MAP:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2cdf281083f5c78c89fd2d2c8f23276438fc6e53/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1403.gif]
 
(Ord. 92-3, 5-13-1992; amd. 1996 Code)
9-5-7: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES MAY REQUIRE PERMITS:
The building inspector and the fire chief shall act as a committee to determine
and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require permits in addition to
those now enumerated in the fire code. (Ord. 92-3, 5-13-1992; amd. 1996 Code)
9-5-8: APPEALS:
Whenever the fire chief shall disapprove an application, refuse to grant a
permit for which application has been received, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the fire code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of
the fire code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal the decision of the chief to the city council within thirty (30) days
from the date of such decision. (Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
9-5-9: PENALTY:
   A   Violation; Classification: Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of the fire code, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate
or fail to comply with any order thereunder, or who shall build in violation of
any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the city council or by a court of competent
jurisdiction within the time fixed herein shall, severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-6 of this code. Imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue. All persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time and, when
not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
   B   Enforced Removal: The application of the above penalty shall not be held
to prevent the enforced removal of the prohibited condition. (1978 Code § 10-
160; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 6
IMPACT FEE FOR CULINARY WATER
SECTION:
9-6-1: Definitions
9-6-2: Impact Fee Imposed
9-6-3: Service Area
9-6-4: Refunds
9-6-5: Challenging Impact Fees
9-6-6: Severability
9-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING PERMIT FEES: Fees specifically charged for the purpose of enforcing
the building codes adopted by the city.
CULINARY WATER IMPACT FEE ANALYSIS: Refers to a study completed in May 1997, by
Sunrise Engineering, Inc., Fillmore, Utah, which includes impact fees, hookup
fees and water rates.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any type of construction or expansion of a building,
structure, or use, any change in use of a building or structure, or any changes
in the use of land that creates additional demand and need for public
facilities.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: The necessary written approval from the city which
authorizes the commencement of development activity.
HOOKUP FEES: Reasonable fees for services provided for and directly
attributable to the connection of utility services.
IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed upon development activity as a condition
of development approval; "impact fee" does not mean a tax, a special
assessment, a building permit fee, a hookup fee, a fee for project
improvements, or other reasonable permit or application fee.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS: Site improvements and facilities that are: a) planned and
designed to provide service for development resulting from a development
activity; and b) necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or
users of development resulting from a development activity; "project
improvements" does not mean system improvements.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: The cost of public facility improvements that are roughly
proportionate and reasonably related to the service demands and needs of any
development activity.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Capital facilities that have a life expectancy of ten (10)
or more years and are owned or operated by or on behalf of the city, including
water rights and water supply, treatment and distribution facilities.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS: A. Existing public facilities designed to provide services
to service areas within the community at large; and
   B   Future public facilities identified in a capital facilities plan that
are intended to provide services to service areas within the community at
large. "System improvements" does not mean project improvements. (Ord. 1998-4,
8-12-1998, eff. 10-1-1998; amd. Ord. 2004-2, 8-25-2004)
9-6-2: IMPACT FEE IMPOSED:
   A   Imposition Of Fee: An impact fee shall be charged for every development
activity, and shall include all new culinary water connections where no water
service has previously been provided by the City, and existing connections
where expansion will create an additional demand or need for culinary water.
This fee has been developed in accordance with the provisions of the Impact
Fees Act, Utah Code Unannotated 1997, title 11, chapter 36, and definitions and
terms included therein are incorporated by reference.
      1   The amount of the fee assessed shall be based on the formula
calculated in the Culinary Water Impact Fee Analysis, and shall be established
by resolution of the City Council. The impact fee will be reviewed by the City
from time to time and adjusted to recognize the costs of water system
improvements.
      2   The Culinary Water Impact Fee Analysis, including the formula on
which the fee is based, shall be available for review by the public at the City
office during regular business hours.
   B   Costs Included In Fee: The City may include the following costs in the
impact fee: construction contract price for required facilities; the cost of
acquiring land or rights of way; the cost of acquiring and installing
improvements, material, hardware, and fixtures including appropriate
administrative and overhead costs; the cost for planning, surveying, and
engineering system improvements; and debt service when used as a revenue stream
to pay principal and interest on bonds, notes, or other obligations issued to
finance the cost of system improvements.
The impact fee may also include a fee for existing City facilities, to the
extent that new growth and development will be served by previously constructed
improvements.
   C   Additional Fee: The impact fee shall be charged in addition to fees
assessed for building permits and hookups, and shall become due and payable
prior to development approval.
   D   Adjustment Of Fee: The City may adjust the impact fee as it is
administered to ensure that the fee is imposed fairly. The fee may also be
adjusted: 1) to reflect unusual circumstances, based on recommendations of the
City Manager and approved by the City Council, and 2) for a particular
development, based on studies or data provided by a developer, after review and
approval of the City Manager and City Council. (Ord. 1998-4, 8-12-1998, eff.
10-1-1998)
9-6-3: SERVICE AREA:
The service area in which the impact fee shall be imposed includes the City and
surrounding areas connected to the City's culinary water system. (Ord. 1998-4,
8-12-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
9-6-4: REFUNDS:
The City shall refund any impact fees paid by a developer, plus interest
earned, when: a) the developer does not proceed with the development activity
and has filed a written request for a refund; b) the fees have not been spent
or encumbered; and c) no impact has resulted. (Ord. 1998-4, 8-12-1998, eff. 10-
1-1998)
9-6-5: CHALLENGING IMPACT FEES:
Any person or entity residing in or owning property within the service area,
and any organization, association, or corporation representing the interests of
persons or entities owning property within a service area, may file a
declaratory judgment action challenging the validity of the impact fee.
   A   Request For Information: Any person or entity required to pay an impact
fee who believes the fee does not meet the requirements of law may file a
written request for information with the City within thirty (30) days or may
challenge the fee.
   B   Challenge: Challenges shall be filed in accordance with rules
established in the Impact Fee Act, section 11-36-401, Utah Code Unannotated
1997. (Ord. 1998-4, 8-12-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
9-6-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this Chapter shall be held to be void, unconstitutional, or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, it shall be severed from
the remainder of this Chapter, which shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1998-4, 8-12-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title, Intent And Purpose
10-1-2: Declaration
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: Definitions
10-1-5: Conflict
10-1-6: Severability
10-1-7: Responsibility For Violations
10-1-8: Penalty
10-1-9: Amendments To Title And Zoning Map
10-1-1: TITLE, INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This title shall be known as and shall be entitled the AMENDED ZONING
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MONTICELLO, UTAH, dated February 27, 2024, and may be
so cited and pleaded.
   B.   It is the intent and purpose of the city council of Monticello, Utah,
to promote the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and
general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the city by guiding
development within said city in accordance with a comprehensive plan which plan
has been designed:
      1.   To encourage and facilitate orderly growth and development in the
area;
      2.   To promote safety from fires, floods, traffic hazards and other
dangers;
      3.   To promote sanitation and health of the inhabitants;
      4.   To discourage undue scattering of population and unnecessary
expenditures of the monies for excessive streets, water and sewer lines, and
other public requirements;
      5.   To stabilize and improve property values;
      6.   To protect the residents from objectionable noise, odor, dust,
fumes, and other deleterious substances or conditions;
      7.   To promote a more attractive and wholesome environment. It is also
the intent and purpose of the city council of Monticello that the regulations
and restrictions as set forth in this title shall be interpreted and construed
as to further the purposes of this title. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-1-2: DECLARATION:
In establishing the zones, the boundaries thereof and regulations and
restrictions applying within each of the zones, due and careful consideration
was given, among other things, to the suitability of the land for particular
uses and to the character of the zone with a view to conserving the value of
buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In interpreting and applying this title, the provisions thereof shall
be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
   B.   Except as specifically herein provided, it is not intended by the
adoption of the ordinance codified herein to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any
way to impair or interfere with any existing provisions of law or ordinance, or
any rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued, or which shall
be adopted or issued, pursuant to law relating to the erection, construction,
establishment, moving, alteration or enlargement of any building or
improvement; nor is it intended by this title to interfere with, abrogate or
annul any easement, covenant or other agreement between parties; provided,
however, that in cases in which this title imposes a greater restriction than
is imposed or required by other existing provisions of law or ordinance, the
provisions of this title shall control. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 11-
29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: See BUILDING, Accessory
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: See DWELLING, Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit and
DWELLING, Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit.
ADVERSELY AFFECTED PARTY: A person other than a land use applicant who:
A.   Owns real property adjoining the property that is the subject of a land
use application of land use decision; or:
B.   Will suffer a damage different in kind than, or an injury distinct from,
that of the general community as a result of the land use decision.
AFFECTED ENTITY: A county, municipality, local district, special district under
Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act, school district; interlocal
cooperation entity established under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
Cooperation Act; specified public utility; a property owner; a property owners'
association; or the Utah Department of Transportation, if:
A.   The entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or
significant modification because of an intended use of land;:
B.   The entity has filed with the municipality a copy of the entity's general
or long- range plan; or:
C.   The entity has filed with the municipality a request for notice during the
same calendar year and before the municipality provides notice to an affected
entity in compliance with a requirement imposed under this chapter.
AFFECTED OWNER: The owner of real property that is:
A.   A single project;
B.   The subject of a land use approval that sponsors of a referendum timely
challenged in accordance with Subsection 20A-7-601(6); and
C.   Determined to be legally referable under Section 20A-7-602.8.
AGRICULTURE: The growing of soil crops in the customary manner in the open. It
shall not include livestock raising activities; nor shall it include retailing
of crops on the premises.
APARTMENT HOUSE (MULTIPLE DWELLING): Any building or portion thereof which is
designed, built, rented or leased, let, or hired out to be occupied or which is
occupied as the home or residence of three (3) or more families living
independently of each other and doing their own cooking within the premises.
APPEAL AUTHORITY: "Appeal authority" means the person, board, commission,
agency, or other body designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision
of a land use application or a variance.
APPROVED WATER SYSTEM, PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: The Monticello city water system.
BOARDING HOUSE, LODGING HOUSE, BED AND BREAKFAST: A building containing not
more than one kitchen where for compensation meals are provided pursuant to
previous arrangements on a daily, weekly or monthly basis as distinguished from
a motel, caf , or rooming house. These are considered short-term rental units
if rented for less than thirty (30) days.
BUILDABLE AREA: That portion of a lot or parcel which will fit the construction
of a structure under the provisions of the building codes adopted by the city
and this title, either without grading and excavation or with grading and
excavation, as specified in this title.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of a
person, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
A.   Building, Accessory: A subordinate building, the use of which is
incidental to that of the main building.
B.   Building Line: A line designating the minimum distance which buildings
must set back from a street or lot or parcel line.
C.   Building, Main: The principal building upon a lot or parcel.
CARPORT: A structure for the shelter of automobiles that is not completely
enclosed by walls.
CHARTER SCHOOL:
A.   An operating charter school;
B.   A charter school applicant that a charter school authorizer approves in
accordance with Title 53G, Chapter 5, Part 3, Charter School Authorization; or
C.   An entity that is working on behalf of a charter school or approved
charter applicant to develop or construct a charter school building.
A Charter School does not include a therapeutic school.
CHILDCARE: Tending of children by family members or friends for which no
compensation is received. Childcare services are exempt from state regulation
as specified in applicable Utah Code.
CITY ENGINEER: Until such time as the city hires a permanent registered
engineer, the city engineer shall be a licensed surveyor, a registered
engineer, or an engineering firm as designated by the city council on either a
retainer or per job basis.
CIVIL ENGINEER: A professional engineer registered in the state of Utah to
practice in the field of civil engineering work.
CLINIC: A building used for the diagnosis and treatment of ill, infirm, and
injured persons which does not provide board, room or regular hospital care and
services.
CLUB: A building used, occupied and operated by an organized association of
persons for social, fraternal, religious or patriotic purposes, whose
activities are confined to the members and their guests, but not including any
building used principally to render a service usually and ordinarily carried on
as a business.
COMMON AREA: An area designed to serve two (2) or more dwelling units which
have convenient access to the area.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A coordinated plan which has been prepared and adopted for
the purpose of guiding development, including, but not limited to, a plan or
plans of land use, circulation, housing and public facilities and grounds.
CONDITIONAL USE: A land use that, because of the unique characteristics or
potential impact of the land use on city, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent
land uses, may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if
certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental
impacts.
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING: A governmental action that results in a taking of
private property so that compensation to the owner of the property is required
by the:
A.   Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States;
or:
B.   Utah Constitution Article I, Section 22.
CONVALESCENT HOME: See definition of Rest Home, Nursing Home, Convalescent
Home.
CULINARY WATER AUTHORITY: The department, agency, or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water
system and sources for the subject property.
CURB CUT: A cut in the curb line for the passage of vehicles.
CUT: A process of excavation. See definition of Excavation.
DAYCARE, NURSERY, PRESCHOOL: A home or building in which children are tended or
kept for compensation, and any similar use for which the State requires a
license. Does not include overnight accommodations for children, as in a foster
home or an orphanage.
DENSITY: Density of population, measured by the number of dwelling units per
acre of land.
DESIGNATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA: Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map issued by
the federal insurance administration for this community, dated December 24,
1976, with panel number H-01-02, community number 490212, and any officially
published revision to this map.
DETACHED STRUCTURE: Any structure being secondary to the primary use of the
parcel (i.e., a garage, storage sheds, barns, coops, etc.).
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY:
A.   Any construction or expansion of a building, structure, or use that
creates additional demand and need for public facilities;:
B.   Any change in use of a building or structure that creates additional
demand and need for public facilities; or:
C.   Any change in the use of the land that creates additional demand and need
for public facilities.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement or amendment to a written agreement
between a municipality and one or more parties that regulates or controls the
use of development of a specific area of land. A development agreement does not
include an improvement completion assurance.
DISABILITY: A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of a person's major life activities, including a person having a record of
such an impairment or being regarded as having such an impairment. Disability
does not include current illegal use of, or addiction to, any federally
controlled substance, as defined in Section 102 or the Controlled Substances
Act, 21 U.S.C. 802.
DRIVE-IN RETAIL: Any form of merchandising, serving or dispensing of goods in
which the customer is served while in his automobile.
DWELLING: A building designed or used for residential occupancy, including
conventional construction, manufactured homes, modular homes, and apartment
structures. A dwelling shall not include boarding, rooming, or lodging houses,
tents, trailers, recreational vehicles (RVs), mobile home parks, motels and
hotels, motor courts, motor lodges, cottage camps, or any short-term rentals or
uses primarily for transient residential uses.:
A.   Dwelling, Caretaker’s: A dwelling which is occupied by a person whose
function is to watch or take care of a business or industry which is located on
the same premises as the dwelling.
B.   Dwelling, Primary: A single-family dwelling that is:
   1.   Detached, and
   2.   Occupied as the primary residence of the owner of an internal accessory
dwelling unit.
   3.   A garage is considered to part of the primary dwelling unit if:
      a.   Conforms to applicable building codes for use as a dwelling.
      b.   the garage is connected to the primary dwelling by a common wall.
C.   Dwelling, Multiple-Family: A building containing three (3) or more
separate dwelling units, each of which is designed for or occupied by one
family.
D    Dwelling, Single-Family: A building containing one dwelling unit which is
designed for or occupied by one family, and which is larger than nine hundred
(900) square feet on the ground level, unless it meets one of the
specifications below:
   1.   Small Home: Any single-family dwelling that is:
      a.   Smaller than eight hundred and ninety-nine (899) square feet but
larger than six hundred (600) square feet; and
      b.   Designed for and intended for human occupancy; and
      c.   Meets applicable building codes.
   2.   Tiny Home: Any single-family dwelling that is:
      a.   Smaller than five hundred and ninety-nine (599) square feet but
larger than two hundred (200) square feet; and
      b.   Designed for and intended for human occupancy for more than thirty
(30) consecutive days; and
      c.   Meets applicable building codes.:
E.   Dwelling, Two-Family: A building with a minimum of one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet on the ground floor and contains two (2) separate
dwelling units, each of which is designed for or occupied by one family.:
F.   Dwelling, Rental: A building or portion of a building that
   1.   Is used or designated for use as a residence by one or more persons;
and
   2.   Meets applicable building codes for a dwelling; and
   3.   Is available to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for:
      a.   A period of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer (long-term
rental); or
      b.   A period fewer than thirty (30) consecutive days (short-term
rental).
   4.   Is arranged, designed, or built to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired
out for:
      a.   A period of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer (long-term
rental); or
      b.   A period fewer than thirty (30) consecutive days (short-term
rental).:
G.   Dwelling, Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit: An accessory dwelling unit is
   1.   Detached from a primary dwelling; and
   2.   On the same lot as the primary dwelling; and
   3.   Conforms to applicable building codes for use as a dwelling.:
H.   Dwelling, Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit: An accessory dwelling unit
created:
1.   Within a primary dwelling;:
   2.   Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal
accessory dwelling unit is created; and:
   3.   For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of thirty (30)
consecutive days or longer.
I.   Live-Work Unit: A dwelling unit that is part of a commercial building; and
   1.   Is located behind or above the commercial floor space of the building;
   2.   Has its own utility connections separate from the commercial use;
   3.   Has its own entry separate from the commercial space; and
   4.   Conforms to applicable building codes for use as a dwelling.
 
EASEMENT:
A land use right offered for a specific purpose or use over, upon, or beneath
the land; its location and extent being accurately described in the letting
process or by separate document using metes and bounds; distinct from land
ownership and granted to the public, a particular party or public utility.
EDUCATIONAL FACILITY:
A school district's building at which pupils assemble to receive instruction in
a program for any combination of grades from preschool through grade 12,
including kindergarten and a program for children with disabilities; A
structure or facility that is:
A.   Located on the same property as a building described as an educational
facility; and
B.   Used in support of the use of that building;
C.   A building or provide office and related space to a school district's
administrative personnel;
An educational facility does not include land or structure including land or a
structure for inventory storage, equipment storage, food processing or
preparing, vehicle storage or maintenance, or similar use that is:
A.   Not located on the same property as the building described as an
educational facility; and
B.   Used in support of the purposes of a building described as an educational
facility.
An educational facility does not include a therapeutic school.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which vegetation matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or
any other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated, or bulldozed, and shall include the conditions resulting
from it.
FACILITY: A public service developed, owned and maintained by the city (i.e.,
water, sewer, etc.).
FAMILY: Related individuals living together in a single dwelling unit and
maintaining a common household:
A.   A family may include four (4), but not more than four (4), persons not
related to the family.
B.   The term "family" shall not be construed to mean a group of unrelated
individuals, a fraternity, club or institutional group.
FENCE, SIGHT OBSCURING: A fence having a height of six feet (6') or more above
grade, which permits vision through less than ten percent (10%) of each square
foot that is more than eight inches (8") aboveground.
FILL: A deposit of earth material by artificial means.
FINAL PLAT: A permanent map or chart, accurately describing a division of land
which has been surveyed and marked on the ground so that streets, blocks, lots
and other divisions may be identified and located.
FINAL PLAT, RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A plat or plats of survey of land within a
subdivision or other large scale development which has been prepared in
accordance with applicable city standards and/or state statutes for the purpose
of recording in the office of the county recorder.
FIRE AUTHORITY: The department, agency, or public entity with responsibility to
review and approve the feasibility of fire protection and suppression services
for the subject property.
FLOOD PLAIN: Land that:
A.   Is within the 100-year flood plain designated by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, or:
B.   Has not been studied or designated by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency but presents a likelihood of experiencing chronic flooding or a
catastrophic flood event because the land has characteristics that are similar
to those of a 100-year flood plain designated by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
FLOOR AREA: The floor area of a building is the sum of the areas of headroom
height on all floors of the building, including basements, mezzanines and
penthouses, measured from the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls
separating buildings. The floor area does not include unoccupied structures
such as pipe trenches, exterior terraces, or steps, chimneys, roof overhangs,
etc.
FOSTER HOME: A family dwelling that includes the care of non-related persons
and is operated under state certification, license, or permit.
FRACTIONAL NUMBERS OF MEASUREMENTS: In determining the requirements of this
title, whenever a fraction of a number or a unit is one-half (1/2) or more, and
whenever a fraction of a number or a unit resulting from a computation is one-
half (1/2) or more, said fraction shall be considered as a whole number or a
unit. Where the fraction is less than one-half (1/2), said fraction shall not
be included in determining requirements.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A building or part thereof designed for the parking or
temporary storage of automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
GENERAL PLAN: A document that a municipality adopts that sets forth general
guidelines for proposed future development of land within the municipality.
GEOLOGIC HAZARD: Includes:
A.   A surface fault rupture;
B.   Shallow groundwater;
C.   Liquefaction;
D.   A landslide;
E.   A debris flow;
F.   Unstable soil;
G.   A rock fall; or
H.   Any other geologic condition that presents a risk:
   1.   To life;
   2.   Of substantial loss of real property; or
   3.   Of substantial damage to real property.
GRADE: The top of the foundation or stem wall must be a minimum of one foot
(1') higher than the top of the curb. Grade shall be determined by:
A.   For buildings fronting one street only, the elevation of the top of the
curb, at right angles to the midpoint of the foundation.:
B.   For buildings fronting more than one street, the average elevation of the
top of the curb, at right angles to the midpoint of the foundation.
GRADING: Any excavating or filling, or combination thereof, shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
HARD SURFACE: Hard surface is limited to concrete or asphalt only. Hard surface
specifications are as approved by the city.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance from the average grade to top of the
building walls.
HILLSIDE AREA: Any lot or parcel with an average slope greater than eight
percent (8%).
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation conducted within a dwelling and carried on by
persons residing in the dwelling.
HOOKUP FEE: A fee for the installation and inspection of any pipe, line, meter,
or appurtenance that connects to a municipal water, sewer, storm water, power,
or other utility system.
IDENTICAL PLANS: Building plans submitted to a municipality that:
A.   Are clearly marked as "identical plans";
B.   Are substantially identical to building plans that were previously
submitted to and reviewed and proved by the municipality; and:
C.   Describe a building that (1) Is located on land zoned the same as the land
on which the building described in the previously approved plan is located; (2)
Is subject to the same geological and meteorological conditions and the same
law as the building described in the previously approved plans; (3) Has a floor
plan identical to the building plan previously submitted to and reviewed and
approved by the municipality; and (4) Does not require any additional
engineering or analysis.
IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed under state Title 11, Chapter 36a,
Impact Fees Act.
IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE: A surety bond, letter of credit, financial
institution bond, cash, assignment of rights, lien, or other equivalent
security required by a municipality to guaranty the proper completion of
landscaping, or an infrastructure improvement required as a condition precedent
to:
A.   Recording a subdivision plat; or:
B.   Development of a commercial, industrial, mixed use, or multi-family
project.
IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY: An applicant's unconditional warranty that the
applicant's installed and accepted landscaping or infrastructure improvement:
A.   Complies with the municipality's written standards for design, materials,
and workmanship; and:
B.   Will not fail in any material respect, as a result of poor workmanship or
materials, within the improvement warranty period.
IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY PERIOD: A period:
A.   No later than one year after the city's acceptance of required
landscaping; or
B.   No later than one year after the city's acceptance of required
infrastructure, unless the city:
    1.   Determines for good cause that a one-year period would be inadequate
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and
    2.   Has substantial evidence, on record:
       a.   Of prior poor performance by the applicant; or
       b.   That the area upon which the infrastructure will be constructed
contains suspect soil and the municipality has not otherwise required the
applicant to mitigate the suspect soil.
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT: Permanent infrastructure that is essential for the
public health and safety or that:
A.   Is required for human occupation; and
B.   An applicant must install
    1.   In accordance with published installation and inspection
specifications for public improvements; and
    2.   Whether the improvement is public or private, as a condition of:
       a.   Recording a subdivision plat;
       b.   Obtaining a building permit; or
       c.   Development of a commercial, industrial, mixed use, condominium, or
multi-family project.
INTERNAL LOT RESTRICTION: A platted note, platted demarcation, or platted
designation that:
A.   Runs with the land; and
B.   Creates a restriction that is enclosed within the perimeter of a lot
described on the plat; or
C.   Designates a development condition that is enclosed within the perimeter
of a lot described on the plat.
INTERVENING PROPERTY: Property located between an existing service facility and
the property under development.
JUNK: Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber
debris and tires, construction waste, waste, iron, steel, and other old or
scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials in sufficient quantity to pose a public
health or safety hazard, or to be aesthetically unattractive, and shall also
include inoperable, unlicensed, junked, dismantled, or wrecked automobiles, or
parts thereof.
JUNKYARD: A place where scrap, waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled or stored,
including auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and
places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment; but not including such places where such uses are
conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building or where salvaged
materials are kept incidental to manufacturing operations conducted on the
premises.
KENNEL: Land or buildings used in the keeping of four (4) or more dogs over
four (4) months old.
LAND USE APPLICANT: A property owner, or the property owner's designee, who
submits a land use application regarding the property owner's land.
LAND USE APPLICATION: An application that is:
A.   Required by the city; and:
B.   Submitted by a land use applicant to obtain a land use decision; and:
C.   Does not mean an application to enact, amend, or repeal a land use
regulation.
LAND USE AUTHORITY: A person, board, commission, agency, or body, including the
city council, designated by the city council to act upon a land use
application; or if the city council has not designated a person, board,
commission, agency, or body, then the city council itself.
LAND USE DECISION: An administrative decision of a land use authority or appeal
authority regarding:
A.   A land use permit;
B.   A land use application; or
C.   The enforcement of a land use regulation, land use permit, or development
agreement.
LAND USE PERMIT: A permit issued by a land use authority.
LAND USE PLAN: A plan adopted and maintained by the City Council which shows
how the land should be used; an element of the master plan.
LANDSCAPE PLAN, PLANTING PLAN: A plan showing the location and dimensions of
plants, irrigation equipment, curbs and other protective features around the
edge of the planting beds and the location and species of plants to be planted.
LAND USE REGULATION: A legislative decision enacted by ordinance, law, code,
map, resolution, specification, fee or rule that governs the use or development
of land including the adoption or amendment of a zoning map or the text of the
zoning code. A Land Use Regulation does not include:
A.   A land use decision of the legislative body acting as the land use
authority, even if the decision is expressed in a resolution or ordinance; or:
B.   A temporary revision to an engineering specification that does not
materially
    1.   Increase a land use applicant's cost of development compared to the
existing specification; or
    2.   Impact a land use applicant's use of land.
LANDSCAPING: The use and integration of a combination of planted trees, shrubs,
vines, ground covers, lawns, rocks, fountains, pools, artworks, screens, walls,
fences, benches or surfaced walkways set into an aesthetically pleasing
arrangement as determined by the planning commission or their authorized
representative.
LEGISLATIVE BODY: The city council.
LIVESTOCK CORRAL: A place or pen where livestock are kept on a seasonal basis
as part of an agricultural enterprise or operation as distinguished from a
livestock feed yard.
LIVING OPEN SPACE: That portion of the yard on a zoning lot which is not used
by automotive vehicles, but reserved for outdoor living space, recreational
space, and landscaping.
LODGING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House, Lodging House.
LOT: A tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown on
a subdivision plat that has been recorded in the office of the county recorder:
A.   Lot, Corner: A lot situated at a junction of two (2) city streets or
situated on a curved street or way, the radius of which is thirty-five feet
(35') or less, and where the angle formed by the intersection of the tangent is
one hundred five degrees (105 ) or less.
B.   Lot, Interior: A lot other than a corner lot.
C.   Lot, Area: The total area measured on a horizontal plane included within
the lot lines of the lot.
D.   Lot, Width: The distance across a lot of property, measured along a line
parallel to the front lot line, or parallel to a straight line, connecting the
ends of an arc which makes up the front lot line.
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: A relocation of a lot line boundary between adjoining lots
or between a lot and adjoining parcels in accordance with state Section 10-9a-
608:
A.   Whether or not the lots are located in the same subdivision; and:
B.   With the consent of the owners of record.
Lot Line Adjustment does not mean a new boundary line that:
A.   Creates an additional lot; or
B.   Constitutes a subdivision.
Lot Line Adjustment does not include a boundary line adjustment made by the
Department of Transportation.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A transportable factory-built housing unit constructed on or
after June 15, 1976, according to the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Art (HUD Code), in one or more sections,
that:
A.   In the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or forty (40)
body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is four hundred (400) or
more square feet; and:
B.   Is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with
a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes
the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems.
MAJOR TRANSIT INVESTMENT CORRIDOR: Public transit service that uses or
occupies:
A.   Public transit right-of-way;
B.   Dedicated road right-of-way for the use of public transit, such as a bus
rapid transit; or
C.   Fixed-route bus corridors subject to an interlocal agreement or contract
between a municipality or county and (1) A public transit district as defined
in Section 17B-2a-802; or (2) An eligible political subdivision as defined in
Section 59-12-2219.
METES AND BOUNDS: The description of a lot or parcel of land by courses and
distances.
MOBILE HOME: A transportable factory-built housing unit built before June 15,
1976, in accordance with a state mobile home code which existed prior to the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Art (HUD Code).
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area or tract of land used to accommodate mobile homes,
regulations and standards for which are found under chapter 13 of this title.
MODERATE INCOME HOUSING: Housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the
median gross income for households of the same size in the county in which the
city is located.
MODULAR UNIT: A structure:
A.   Built from sections that are manufactured in accordance with the State
Construction Code and transported to a building site; and
B.   The purpose of which is for human habitation, occupancy, or use.
MUNICIPAL UTILITY EASEMENT: An easement that:
A.   Is created or depicted on a plat recorded in a county recorder's office
and is described as a municipal utility easement granted for public use;
B.   Is not a protected utility easement or a public utility easement as
defined in state Section 54-3-27;
C.   The municipality or the municipality's affiliated governmental entity uses
and occupies to provide a utility service, including sanitary sewer, culinary
water, electrical, storm water, or communications or data line;
D.   Is used or occupied with the consent of the municipality in accordance
with an authorized franchise or other agreement;
E.   Is used or occupied by a specified public utility in accordance with an
authorized franchise or other agreement and is located in a utility easement
granted for public use; or
F.   Is described in state Section 10-9a-529 and is used by a specified public
utility.
NATURAL STATE: The description of a lot or parcel of land by courses and
distances.
NOMINAL FEE: A fee that reasonably reimburses a municipality only for time
spent and expenses incurred in:
A.   Verifying that building plans are identical plans; and:
B.   Reviewing and approving those minor aspects of identical plans that differ
from the previously reviewed and approved building plans.
NONCOMPLYING BUILDING or STRUCTURE: A building, structure, or portion thereof:
A.   Legally existed before the building or structure's current land use
designation; and
B.   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not
conform to the setback, height restrictions, or other regulations, excluding
those regulations which govern the use of land.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of land that:
A.   Legally existed before its current land use designation;
B.   Has been maintained continuously since the time the land use ordinance
governing the land changed; and:
C.   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not
conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.
OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS: Improvements, as required by this title, installed
outside the perimeter of the subdivision which are designed and located to
serve the needs of the subdivision or adjacent properties, lying between the
subdivision and existing improvements.
OFFICIAL MAP: A map drawn by municipal authorities and recorded in a county
recorder's office that:
A.   Shows actual and proposed rights-of-way, centerline alignments, and
setbacks for highways and other transportation facilities;
B.   Provides a basis for restricting development in designated rights-of-way
or between designated setbacks to allow the government authorities time to
purchase or otherwise reserve the land; and
C.   Has been adopted as an element of the municipality's general plan.
ON-SITE IMPROVEMENTS: Improvements, as required by this title, installed within
or on the perimeter of the subdivision or development site.
OVERSIZED IMPROVEMENTS: Improvements with added capacity designed to serve
other property in addition to the land within the boundaries of the subdivision
or development.
PARCEL: Any real property that is not a lot.:
A.   Parcel, Corner: A parcel situated at a junction of two (2) city streets or
situated on a curved street or way, the radius of which is thirty-five feet
(35') or less, and where the angle formed by the intersection of the tangent is
one hundred five degrees (105 ) or less.
B.   Parcel, Interior: A parcel other than a corner parcel.
C.   Parcel, Area: The total area measured on a horizontal plane included
within the parcel lines of the parcel.
D.   Parcel, Width: The distance across a parcel of property, measured along a
line parallel to the front parcel line, or parallel to a straight line,
connecting the ends of an arc which makes up the front lot line.
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining
parcels adjusting the mutual boundary, either by deed or by a boundary line
agreement in accordance with Section 10-9a-524, if no additional parcel is
created and:
A.   None of the property identified in the agreement is a lot; or
B.   The adjustment is to the boundaries of a single person's parcels.
Parcel Boundary Adjustment does not mean an adjustment of a parcel boundary
line that:
A.   Creates an additional parcel; or
B.   Constitutes a subdivision.
A Parcel Boundary Adjustment does not include a boundary line adjustment made
by the Department of Transportation.
PARKING SPACE: Spaces within a building or parking area, exclusive of
driveways, ramps, columns, office and working area, for the parking of a motor
vehicle, not less than eighteen feet (18') in length and nine feet (9') in
width. Exception: Spaces reserved for the disabled will be no less than twenty
feet (20') in length and thirteen feet (13') in width.
PERSON:
An individual, corporation, partnership, organization, association, trust,
governmental agency, or any other legal entity.
PLAN FOR MODERATE INCOME HOUSING: A written document adopted by a
municipality's legislative body that includes:
A.   An estimate of the existing supply of moderate income housing located
within the municipality;
B.   An estimate of the need for moderate income housing in the municipality
for the next five years;
C.   A survey of total residential land use;
D.   An evaluation of how existing land uses and zones affect opportunities for
moderate income housing; and
E.   A description of the municipality's program to encourage an adequate
supply of moderate income housing.
PLAT: An instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map or
other graphical representation of land that a licensed professional land
surveyor makes and prepares in accordance with Section 10-9a-603 or 57-8-13 of
the state code.
POTENTIAL GEOLOGIC HAZARD AREA: An area that:
A.   Is designated by a Utah Geological Survey map, county geologist map, or
other relevant map or report as needing further study to determine the area's
potential for geologic hazard; or
B.   Has not been studied by the Utah Geological Survey or a county geologist
but presents the potential of geologic hazard because the area has
characteristics similar to those of a designated geologic hazard area.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A map or plan of a proposed land division, prepared in
accordance with the regulations of this title.
PRIVATE DRIVE: An accessway from a city street or highway to private land that
does not front a city street or highway. A private drive is owned and
maintained by the landowner.
PUBLIC AGENCY: The federal government, state, county, municipality, school
district, local district, special service district, or other political
subdivision of the state; or a charter school.
PUBLIC HEARING: A hearing at which members of the public are provided a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting that is required to be open to the public under Utah
Code Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.
PUBLIC STREET: Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, viaduct or
other way, for the movement of vehicular traffic which is an existing state,
county, or city roadway, or a street or way shown upon a plat, formerly
approved, pursuant to law, or approved by official action; and includes the
land between street lanes, whether improved or unimproved and may comprise
pavement, shoulders, gutter, sidewalks, parking areas, and other areas within
the right of way. For the purpose of this title, streets shall be classified as
follows:
A.   City Street: Any street within the city's incorporated boundary that is
recognized and maintained by the city.
B.   Cul-De-Sac: A street open at one end with a designated vehicular
turnaround area at the closed end.
C.   Dead End: A street open at one end with no turnaround.
D.   Major Highway: A major regional highway, including an expressway, freeway
or interstate highway designed to carry vehicular traffic:
    1.   Into, out of, or throughout the regional area (interregional); and
    2.   From one political subdivision of the region to another, or from an
interregional highway.
E.   Service Road: A street or road paralleling and abutting major streets to
provide access to adjacent property so that each adjacent lot or parcel will
not have direct access to the major street.
F.   Stub: A street or road extending from within a subdivision and which
terminates at the subdivision boundary with no provision for a vehicular
turnaround. Stub streets are normally required to connect to street systems of
adjacent developments.
RECEIVING ZONE: An area of a municipality that the municipality designates, by
ordinance, as an area in which an owner of land may receive a transferable
development right.
RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with
Section 10-9a-603, 17-23-17, 17-27a-603, or 57-8-13 of the state code.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:
A.   A vehicular unit other than a mobile home primarily designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, or vacation use that is either
self-propelled or pulled by another vehicle; Recreation vehicle includes a
travel trailer, camping trailer, motor home, fifth-wheel trailer, park model
home RV, and a van designed for overnight use.
B.   Off highway vehicle (OHV), including, but not limited to, all-terrain
vehicle (ATV), side by side utility task vehicle (UTV), recreational off
highway vehicle (ROV), golf cart, and the trailer used to transport such
vehicle;
C.   Boat, other than canoe or kayak, and the trailer used to transport it.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A minimum three (3) acre area or tract of land used
to accommodate two (2) or more recreational vehicles.
REMOVAL: The killing of vegetation by spraying, complete extraction or cutting
of such vegetation to the ground, or down to trunks or stumps.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY: A residence:
A.   In which more than one person with a disability resides; and
B.   Which is licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under
Title 62A, Chapter 2, Licensure of Programs and Facilities; or
C.   Which is licensed or certified by the Department of Health under Title 26,
Chapter 21, Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: A residential structure or any portion of a residential
structure that is occupied as a residence.
REST HOME, NURSING HOME, CONVALESCENT HOME, ASSISTED LIVING HOME: A building
for the care and keeping of elderly or infirm people.
RESUBDIVISION: The changing or amending of any existing lot or lots of any
subdivision plat previously recorded in the records of the county recorder as
provided in section 11-26 of this code.
RETENTION BASIN: An area recessed or designed to receive and retain stormwater
discharge or runoff.
RIPRAP: A loose assemblage of broken stone placed on the surface of the ground
to prevent erosion.
ROUGH GRADE: The state of excavation at which grading is within four inches
(4") of the final grade as shown on the approved grading plan.
RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE: A set of rules that govern and prescribe in a
public meeting:
A.   Parliamentary order and procedure;
B.   Ethical behavior; and
C.   Civil discourse.
SALVAGE YARD: See definition of Junkyard.
SANITARY SEWER AUTHORITY: The department, agency, or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services
or on-site wastewater systems.
SENDING ZONE: An area of a municipality that the municipality designates, by
ordinance, as an area from which an owner of land may transfer a transferable
development right.
SETBACK: The shortest distance between the property line and the foundation
wall, or main frame of the building.
SIGN: Any device for visual communication that is used for the purpose of
bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public, but not including
a flagpole.
A.   Sign, Accessory: An on-premises sign which directs attention to a business
or profession.
B.   Sign, Area Of: The area of a sign shall be considered to include all
lettering, wording and accompanying designs or symbols, together with any
background material, whether painted or applied. Where a sign consists of
individual letters attached to or painted on a building or wall or window, the
area of the sign shall be considered to be that of the smallest rectangle which
encompasses all the letters or symbols.
C.   Sign, Non-accessory; Billboard:-A freestanding ground sign located on
industrial, commercial, or residential property if the sign is designed or
intended to direct attention to a business, product, or service that is not
sold, offered, or existing on the property where the sign is located.
SINGLE-FAMILY LIMIT: No more than four (4) unrelated individuals may occupy
each residential unit that is recognized by the City in a zone permitting
occupancy by a single family.
SITE: Any lot or parcel of land.
SKETCH PLAN: A preliminary map or preapplication plat, showing the concept of
the proposed development or subdivision, having sufficient detail to illustrate
on site characteristics of the proposed subdivision and adjacent parcels.
SPECIAL DISTRICT: Any entity established under the authority of Utah Code
Annotated title 17B, special districts, and any other governmental or quasi-
governmental entity that is not a county, municipality, or school district.
SPECIFIED PUBLIC UTILITY: An electrical corporation, gas corporation, or
telephone corporation, as those terms are defined in Section 54-2-1 of Utah
Code.
STATE: Any department, division, or agency of the state.
STREET RIGHT OF WAY: That portion of land dedicated to public use for street
and utility purposes.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person or legal entity laying out or making a land division for
the purpose of sale, offering for sale or selling for himself or others, any
subdivision or any part of it.
SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, re-subdivided or proposed to be divided
into two (2) or more lots, or other division of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the
installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.
A.   "Subdivision" includes:
   1.   The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument,
regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or
lot; and
   2.   Except as provided in Subsection (65)(c), divisions of land for
residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for
commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes.
B.   "Subdivision" does not include:
    1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purpose
of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of
unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable land
use ordinance;
    2.   A boundary line agreement recorded with the county recorder's office
between owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in accordance
with Section 10-9a-524 if no new parcel is created.
    3.   A recorded document, executed by the landowner of record: (1) revising
the legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal description
encompassing all such parcels; or (2) joining a lot to a parcel;
    4.   A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with Sections
10-9a-524 and 10-9a-608 if: (1) no new dwelling lot or housing unit will result
from the adjustment; and (2) the adjustment will not violate any applicable
land use ordinance;
    5.   A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed
or other instrument states in writing that the division;
    6.   Is in anticipation of future land use approvals on the parcel or
parcels;
    7.   Does not confer any land use approvals, and
    8.   Has not been approved by the land use authority;
    9.   A parcel boundary adjustment;
    10.   A lot line adjustment;
    11.   A road, street, or highway dedication plat;
    12.   A deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
    13.   Any other division of land authorized by law.
SUBDIVISION AMENDMENT: An amendment of a recorded subdivision in accordance
with Section 10-9a-608 that:
A.   Vacates all or a portion of the subdivision;
B.   Alters the outside boundary of the subdivision;
C.   Changes the number of lots within the subdivision;
D.   Alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or public infrastructure
within the subdivision; or
E.   Alters a common area or other common amenity within the subdivision.
SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE: Evidence that (1) is beyond a scintilla and (2) a
reasonable mind would accept as adequate to support a conclusion.
SUSPECT SOIL: Soil that has:
A.   A High susceptibility for volumetric change, typically clay rich, having
more than a 3% swell potential;
B.   Bedrock units with high shrink or swell susceptibility; or
C.   Gypsiferous silt and clay, gypsum, or bedrock units containing abundant
gypsum commonly associated with dissolution and collapse features.
THERAPEUTIC SCHOOL: A residential group living facility:
A.   For four or more individuals who are not related to:
    1.   The owner of the facility; or
    2.   The primary service provider of the facility;
B.   That serves students who have a history of failing to function:
   1.   At home;
    2.   In a public school; or
    3.   In a nonresidential private school; and
C.   That offers room and board, and:
    1.   An academic education integrated with a specialized structure and
supervision; or
    2.   Services or treatment related to a disability, emotional development,
behavioral development, familial development, or social development.
TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHT: A right to develop and use land that originates
by an ordinance and authorizes a landowner in a designated sending zone to
transfer land use rights from a designated sending zone to a designated
receiving zone.
UNINCORPORATED: The area outside of the incorporated area of a city or town.
VARIANCE: A waiver of specific regulations of this title granted by the board
of adjustment in accordance with the provisions set forth in the city code.
VICINITY PLAN: A map or chart, showing the relationship of streets and land
within a proposed subdivision to the streets and lands in the surrounding area.
WATER INTEREST: Any right to the beneficial use of water, including:
A.   Each of the rights listed in Section 73-1-11; and
B.   An ownership interest in the right to the beneficial use of water
represented by (1) a contract or (2) a share in a water company, as defined in
Section 73-3-3.5.
YARD: An open space on the same lot or parcel as a building, said space being
unoccupied or unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided
in this title:
A.   Yard, Front: The single horizontal distance between the street line and
the front line of the building or any projection thereof, excluding non-
enclosed steps. On a corner lot or parcel, the front yard may be applied to
either street.
B.   Yard, Rear: The area between the rear line of the building (exclusive of
steps) and the rear lot or parcel line and extending for the entire width of
the lot or parcel. In case of a corner lot or parcel where the building facade
faces on the side street, the rear yard may be established from the side of the
house to the side property line.
C.   Yard, Required: The open space around buildings which is required by the
terms of this title.
D.   Yard, Side: A yard between the building and the side line of the lot or
parcel, and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
ZONING MAP: A map, adopted as part of a land use ordinance, that depicts land
use zones, overlays, or districts. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2016-6,
6-28-2016; Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-1-5: CONFLICT:
Whenever regulations in this title require higher standards than are required
in other ordinances or laws, the provisions of this title shall govern.
Whenever regulations of other ordinances or laws require higher standards than
the provisions of this title, then said other ordinances shall govern. All
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with any of the provisions of
this title are hereby repealed. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-
29-2022)
10-1-6: SEVERABILITY:
This title and the various parts, sections and clauses are hereby declared to
be severable. If any part, section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase is
adjudged to be unconstitutional or invalid, it is hereby declared that the
remainder of this title shall not be affected thereby. The city council hereby
declares that it would have passed the ordinance codified herein or each part,
section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more portions thereof be declared invalid. (Ord. 2012-01,
7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022)
10-1-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS:
It shall be the duty of all architects, contractors, subcontractors, builders
and other persons having to do with the establishment of any use of land or the
erection, altering, changing or remodeling of any building or structure to see
that a proper permit has been granted before such work is begun. Any such
architect, builder, contractor or other person doing or performing any such
work without a permit having been issued is in conflict with the requirements
of this title and shall be deemed guilty of violation of this title in the same
manner and to the same extent that the owner of the premises or the persons for
whom the use is established, or for whom such buildings are erected or altered,
and shall be subject to the penalties herein prescribed for violation. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022)
10-1-8: PENALTY:
   A.   Classified: Unless a permit from the zoning administrator was
previously obtained, any person, firm, or corporation, whether as principal,
agent, employee, or otherwise, who shall erect, construct or reconstruct any
building that:
      1.   Involves structural alterations; or
      2.   Involves an increase or decrease in floor area; or
      3.   Changes the use of any building or other structure; or
      4.   Changes the use of any land within the city;
         is in violation of the provisions of this title, and shall be issued a
violation fee as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule by resolution of
the Monticello city council. If the fee is unpaid as set forth in the
consolidated fee schedule, the violator shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor for noncompliance and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
by fine.
   B.   Failure To Comply; Abatement By City: If any owner, occupant or other
person having an interest in land described in such notice of decision, to whom
the notice was given, shall fail or neglect to conform to the requirements
thereof relating to the eradication, destruction or removal of such weeds,
garbage, refuse, objects or structures, the city manager may employ all
necessary measures to cause such objectionable nuisance or condition to be
removed or destroyed and to collect any expenses incurred from said owner,
occupant, or other reasonable party.
   C.   Each Day Separate Offense: Such person, firm or corporation violating
this title or any part thereof shall be deemed to be guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during which such violation is committed,
continued or permitted by such person, firm or corporation and shall be
punishable as provided by law as a separate offense. (Ord. 2016-4, 6-14-2016,
eff. 6-14-2016; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022)
10-1-9: AMENDMENTS TO TITLE AND MAP:
This zoning title, including the zoning map, may be amended as hereinafter
provided.
   A.   Intent With Respect to Amendments: It is hereby declared to be public
policy that this title shall not be changed except to correct manifest errors
or to more fully carry out the intent and purpose of the master plan for the
city and of this title.
   B.   Procedure: Any person seeking an amendment to this zoning title or map
shall submit to the planning commission a written petition designating the
change desired and the reasons therefor and shall pay a filing fee to the city,
the amount to be established by resolution of the city council.
      1.   Upon receipt of the petition and the payment of the filing fee, the
planning commission shall consider the request and shall certify its
recommendations to the city council with respect to the request within thirty
(30) days from receipt of the request.
      2.   Failure on the part of the planning commission to certify its
recommendations to the city council within thirty (30) days shall be deemed to
constitute approval unless a longer period is granted by the city council. The
fee required herein shall not be returned to the applicant.
      3.   The planning commission or city council may also initiate amendments
to this title.
   C.   Public Hearing Required Before Amending; Notice: Amendments to this
title may be adopted only after a public hearing in relation thereto before the
city council, at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard. A notice of the time and place of such hearing shall
be published as required by law. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 2
SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
APPLICABLE WITHIN ZONES
SECTION:
10-2-1: Lots To Have Frontage On City Street
10-2-2: Uses Prohibited In Zones Unless Expressly Permitted
10-2-3: Property Boundary Adjustment
10-2-4: Boundary Line Agreement
10-2-5: Off Street Parking Requirements
10-2-6: Signs
10-2-7: Parking And Storage Of Recreational Vehicles
10-2-8: Conditional Uses
10-2-9: Temporary Uses
10-2-10: Portable Storage Container Regulations
10-2-11: Chickens
10-2-12: Diagonal Parking
10-2-13: Fences On Property Used For Residential Purposes
10-2-14: Fences On Property Used For Commercial Or Industrial Purposes
10-2-15: Solar Electricity Systems
10-2-16: Rental Of Dwelling Units
10-2-17: Detached Accessory Dwelling Units
10-2-18: Commercial Plug-In Electric Vehicle Charging Stations
10-2-19: Landscaping Required
10-2-1: LOTS TO HAVE FRONTAGE ON CITY STREET:
   A.   Except as may be authorized through the approval of a large-scale
development, each lot or parcel shall abut upon a City maintained street.
      1.   The length of said abutting side as measured at the setback line
shall be not less than the minimum frontage requirement of the zone;
      2.   The Planning Commission may authorize a reduction of the minimum
frontage requirement subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The lot or parcel will abut the city maintained street for a
minimum distance of thirty five feet (35');
         b.   The buildable portion of the lot or parcel shall comply with the
minimum area, width and setback requirements of the zone;
         c.   The lot or parcel configuration created by the granting of the
reduction will not result in an undue adverse condition for the proper
development of adjacent properties;
         d.   In the opinion of the Planning Commission, the reduction of the
frontage requirement is necessary to more fully promote the effective and
proper development of the city.
   B.   All lots in an approved subdivision plat which have frontages of less
than the minimum shall be considered as having qualified under the frontage
reduction provisions of subsection
10-2-1A(2).
   C.   Flag-shaped or panhandle shaped lots may be created in developments if
all of the following requirements are met: a. The lot has at least twenty five
feet (25') of frontage on a dedicated public street, which served as access
only to the subject lot or parcel. b. The "handle" portion of the lot is at
least twenty five feet (25') in width, and not more than two hundred fifty feet
(250') in length. c. The body of the lot meets the lot area and lot width and
setback requirements of the applicable zone. (Ord. passed 11-29-2022; amd. Ord.
2024-02, 2-27-2024; Ord. passed 5-27-2025)
10-2-2: USES PROHIBITED IN ZONES UNLESS EXPRESSLY PERMITTED:
Uses of land which are not expressly permitted within a zone are expressly
prohibited therein, except as may be permitted by action of the appeal
authority. The appeal authority shall not permit a use within a zone which is
not expressly permitted by the terms of this title. (Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-3: PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   To make a parcel boundary adjustment, a property owner shall execute a
boundary adjustment through:
      1.   A quitclaim deed; or
      2.   A boundary line agreement under section
10-2-4; and
      3.   Record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the office
of the county recorder of the county in which each property is located.
   B.   To make a lot line adjustment, a property owner shall obtain approval
of the boundary adjustment under section
10-2-4; and execute a boundary adjustment through:
      1.   A quit claim deed; or
      2.   A boundary line agreement; and
      3.   Record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the office
of the county recorder of the county in which the property is located.
   C.   A parcel boundary adjustment under subsection
10-2-4 is not subject to review of the city unless:
      1.   The parcel includes a dwelling;
      2.   The city's approval is required under subsection
10-2-4(G); or
      3.   The adjustment includes property that is a lot.
   D.   The recording of a boundary line agreement or other document used to
adjust a mutual boundary line that is not subject to review by the city
      1.   Does not constitute a land use approval; and
      2.   Does not affect the validity of the boundary line agreement or other
document used to adjust a mutual boundary line.
   E.   The city may withhold approval of a land use application for property
that is subject to a recorded boundary line agreement or other document used to
adjust a mutual boundary line if the city determines that the lots or parcels,
as adjusted by the boundary line agreement or other document used to adjust the
mutual boundary line, are not in compliance with the city's land use
regulations in effect on the day on which the boundary line agreement or other
document used to adjust the mutual boundary line is recorded. (Ord. passed 11-
29-2022; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-4: BOUNDARY LINE AGREEMENT:
   A.   If properly executed and acknowledged as required by law, an agreement
between owners of adjoining property that designates the boundary line between
the adjoining properties acts, upon recording in the office of the recorder in
the county in which each property is located, as a quitclaim deed to convey all
of each party's right, title, interest, and estate in property outside the
agreed boundary line that had been the subject of the boundary line agreement
or dispute that lead to the boundary line agreement.
   B.   Adjoining property owners executing a boundary line agreement described
in this section shall ensure that the agreement includes:
      1.   A legal description of the agreed upon boundary line and each parcel
or lot after the boundary line changed;
      2.   The name and signature of each grantor that is party to the
agreement;
      3.   A sufficient acknowledgment for each grantor's signature;
      4.   The address of each grantee for assessment purposes;
      5.   A legal description of the parcel or lot each grantor owns before
the boundary line is changed; and
      6.   The date of the agreement if the date is not included in the
acknowledgment in a form substantially similar to a quitclaim deed as described
in section ---.
   C.   If any of the property subject to the boundary line agreement is a lot,
prepare an amended plat in accordance with city code
11-1-5 Subdivision Amendments before executing the boundary line agreement.
   D.   If none of the property subject to the boundary line agreement is a
lot, ensure that the boundary line agreement includes a statement citing the
file number of a record of survey map, unless the statement is exempted by the
City.
   E.   A boundary line agreement described in subsection A. that complies with
subsection; B. presumptively:
      1.   Has no detrimental effect on any easement on the property that is
recorded before the day on which the agreement is executed unless the owner of
the property benefitting from the easement specifically modifies the easement
within the boundary line agreement or a separate recorded easement modification
or relinquishment document; and
      2.   Relocates the parties' common boundary line for an exchange of
consideration.
   F.   Notwithstanding Title 11, Subdivisions, a boundary line agreement that
only affects parcels is not subject to:
      1.   Any public notice, public hearing, or preliminary platting
requirement;
      2.   The review of a land use authority; or
      3.   An engineering review or approval of the city, except as provided in
subsection G(2)(e).
   G.   City Planning and Zoning Administrator review and approval of boundary-
line adjustment containing a dwelling.
      1.   The administrator shall review a boundary-line agreement containing
a dwelling unit within fourteen (14) days of the date on which the property
owner submits the boundary-line agreement for review.
      2.   The administrator shall review the boundary-line agreement for
compliance with the standards of the zone in which the property is located. The
administrator may also consider whether the following criteria apply when
considering whether to approve the boundary line agreement:
         a.   The adjusted boundary line reduces the frontage of the lot or
parcel containing the dwelling to less than required for the zone; or
         b.   The adjusted boundary line reduces any setback of the lot or
parcel containing the dwelling to less than required for the zone; or
         c.   The adjusted boundary line reduces the area of the lot or parcel
containing the dwelling to less than required; or
         d.   The adjusted boundary line affects an existing or future city
street; or
         e.   The adjusted boundary line affects drainage corridors or requires
engineering review, regardless of whether a dwelling is present.
         f.   If the boundary-line agreement does not provide the administrator
with sufficient information the administrator shall send a written notice to
the property owner requesting the specific information needed. Said notice will
be sent within the review period defined in subsection 3 of this section.
      3.   The administrator shall issue a written decision to the property
owner within fourteen (14) days of the date on which the property owner submits
the boundary-line agreement for review.
         a.   If the administrator fails to send a written notice within the
time period described in subsection 3 of this section, the property owner may
record the boundary-line agreement as if no review was required. (Ord. passed
11-29-2022; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-5: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   At the time any residence or any public or commercial building is
erected, hard surfaced off street parking spaces of cement or asphalt shall be
provided for automobiles on private property.
   B.   At the time any residence or building is enlarged or increased in
capacity, or any use is established or changed, thereby creating the need for
additional parking, off street hard surfaced parking spaces of cement or
asphalt shall be provided on private property.
   C.   Provision of off-street parking shall be in accordance with the
following requirements:
      1.   Size:
         a.   The dimensions of each off-street parking space or stall shall be
at least nine feet by eighteen feet (9' x 18'), for diagonal or ninety-degree
(90°) spaces; or nine by twenty-two feet (9 x 22') for parallel spaces,
exclusive of access drives or aisles.
         b.   A parking stall may be reduced by two feet (2') lengthwise if
landscaping separated from the paved area of the parking stall by a curb or
tire bumper guard is provided in the remaining two feet (2') of the parking
stall. All areas within the parking area that are not paved shall be
landscaped.
      2.   Access To Individual Parking Spaces: Except for single-family and
two-family dwellings, access to each parking space shall be from a private
driveway and not from a city street.
         a.   One-way driveways shall be a minimum of twelve feet (12') in
width.
         b.   Two-way driveways shall be a minimum of twenty-five feet (25') in
width.
         c.   All garage and carport spaces shall be set back a minimum of
twenty feet (20') from the private access drive serving them.
         d.   Garage and carport spaces shall be counted as one (1) parking
space unless: 1) Such garage or carport is a minimum of four hundred eighty
(480) square feet with a minimum width of twenty feet (20'); or 2) The
individual driveway to the garage or carport is at least twenty feet (20') in
length, in which case such parking areas shall count as two (2) spaces.
      3.   Parking Spaces Required for Residential Areas: The number of off-
street parking spaces required for residential development shall be as follows:
         a.   Single-Family Dwelling: Two (2) parking spaces per single-family
dwelling. Tandem parking shall be allowed at single- family residences only.
         b.   Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit: One (1) parking space shall be
provided.
         c.   All Other Dwellings:
            (1)   All other dwellings, including townhouses and condominiums,
shall have two (2) parking spaces per dwelling unit. Covered parking may be
located within the side and rear setback areas. No street parking shall be
counted toward meeting the parking requirement. Tandem parking shall not count
toward the parking requirement. No parking area shall be located within the
required front setback facing a city street. All parking shall be on site.
            (2)   Front yard setback from streets shall be twenty feet (20')
minimum from property lines for garages or carports.
            (3)   In residential zones, no recreational vehicle shall be parked
or stored unless it conforms to the requirements of section
10-2-3 of this chapter. (Corner lots are considered to have 2 front yard
areas.) (Ord. 2016-6, 6-28-2016)
      4.   Parking Spaces Required for Nonresidential Areas: The number of off-
street parking spaces required for all nonresidential developments shall be as
follows:
         a.   Business Or Professional Offices: One (1) space for each two
hundred fifty (250) square feet of gross floor area.
         b.   Churches, Sports Arenas, Auditoriums, Theaters, Assembly Halls,
Lodge Halls, Or Other Meeting Rooms: One (1) space for each four (4) fixed
seats of maximum seating capacity, or one (1) space for each thirty-five (35)
square feet of seating area within the main auditorium where there are no fixed
seats. Eighteen (18) linear inches of bench shall be considered a fixed seat.
         c.   Stores, Appliance Stores and Lumberyards: One (1) space for each
six hundred (600) square feet of floor area.
         d.   Hospitals: Two (2) parking spaces for each bed.
         e.   Nursing Homes, Care Centers: Two (2) parking space for each five
(5) beds.
         f.   Hotels, Motels, Motor Hotels: One (1) space for each living or
sleeping unit, plus two (2) spaces for resident manager or owner.
         g.   Retail Stores and Shops, Commercial Banks, Savings and Loan
Offices, And Other Financial Institutions, General Retail Stores, Food Stores,
Supermarkets, Drugstores and Other Similar Commercial Businesses: One (1) space
for each two hundred fifty (250) square feet of gross floor area.
         h.   Mortuaries and Funeral Homes: Five (5) spaces plus one (1) space
for each thirty-five (35) square feet of assembly room floor area.
         i.   Automotive Repair and Supply: One (1) space for each four hundred
(400) square feet of gross floor area.
         j.   Bowling Alleys and Billiard Halls: Five (5) spaces for each
alley, plus two (2) spaces for each billiard table contained therein.
         k.   Libraries: One (1) space for each three hundred (300) square feet
of gross floor area.
         l.   Restaurants, Taverns, Lounges, Drive-In, Drive-Through, Take-Out
Restaurants and Other Establishments Where Food or Beverages Are Consumed: Ten
(10) spaces minimum, or one (1) space for each one hundred (100) square feet of
gross floor area, whichever is greater.
         m.   Day Nurseries in Commercial Zones, Including Preschools and
Nursery Schools: One (1) space for each staff member, plus one (1) space for
each five (5) children for which said establishment is licensed.
         n.   Golf Courses: Six (6) spaces per hole.
         o.   Skating Rinks, Ice or Roller: One (1) space for each three
hundred (300) square feet of gross floor area.
         p.   Swimming Pools (Public): One (1) space for each one hundred (100)
square feet of water surface, or ten (10) stalls, whichever is greater.
         q.   Tennis, Handball and Racquetball Courts (Commercial): Six (6)
spaces minimum, or three (3) spaces per court, whichever is greater.
         r.   Studios and Spas: One (1) space for each two hundred fifty (250)
square feet of gross floor area, or ten (10) spaces minimum, whichever is
greater.
         s.   Educational Uses:
            (1)   Elementary: Two (2) spaces per classroom.
            (2)   Senior and junior high schools: One (1) space for each member
of the faculty and one (1) space for each six (6) regularly enrolled students.
            (3)   College, universities, trade schools: One (1) space for each
faculty member, plus one (1) space for each three (3) students.
            (4)   Schools having an arena or auditorium shall meet this
requirement or the requirements of subsection C.4.b of this section, whichever
is greater.
         t.   Veterinary Hospitals: Five (5) spaces for each doctor.
         u.   Manufacturing Plants, Warehouses, Storage Buildings or Structures
Especially for Storage Purposes: One (1) space for each one thousand (1,000)
square feet of gross floor area and one (1) space for each two hundred fifty
(250) square feet of office or sales area.
         v.   Service Commercial Businesses: Businesses such as electrical,
plumbing, cabinets, printing and other similar shops shall have one (1) space
for each two hundred fifty (250) square feet of retail or office area and one
(1) space for each five hundred (500) square feet of additional building area.
         w.   Outdoor Sales Lots for Autos, Mobile Homes And Recreational
Vehicles: One (1) space for each seven (7) vehicles or items of equipment to be
displayed, plus two (2) spaces for manager and employee parking.
         x.   Consideration By Planning Commission:
            (1)   Notwithstanding all provisions of this section the planning
commission shall: Take into account in each instance of nonresidential parking
the type of development, use, location, adjoining uses and possible future uses
in setting parking requirements, and
            (2)   Recommend to the City Council a requirement of that number of
spaces it deems reasonably necessary in each instance for all employees,
business vehicles and equipment, customers, clients and patients of such
nonresidential property.
         y.   Reduction: Where the applicant can demonstrate that adequate off-
street parking exists, the city council, upon recommendation of the planning
commission, may grant a parking reduction of up to twenty five percent (25%) of
the listed parking requirement for new construction in the commercial zones.
   D.   Parking On Unimproved Lots; Vehicle Display:
      1.   Parking of more than three (3) vehicles on any unimproved lot or
parcel is prohibited.
      2.   Parking of vehicles for display other than in designated and
improved areas is prohibited.
   E.   Parking Lot Lights: Parking lots used during hours of darkness shall be
lighted by standards a maximum of sixteen feet (16') in height above grade and
using indirect, hooded light sources.
   F   Development Standards: Every lot or parcel of land hereafter used as a
parking lot shall:
      1.   Be paved with an approved surfacing material of asphalt or concrete
composition or some other all-weather surfacing material approved by the
Planning Commission;
      2.   Have appropriate bumper guards where needed as determined by the
Planning Commission; and
      3.   Lights used to illuminate the lot shall be so arranged as to reflect
the light away from the adjoining premises wherever those premises are used for
residence or sleeping purposes.
   H.   Optional Provisions; Shared Parking Facilities:
      1.   Shared parking facilities may be used jointly with parking
facilities for other uses when operations are not normally conducted during the
same hours, or when peak uses vary.
      2.   Requests for shared parking are subject to the approval of the
Planning Commission in accordance with the following guidelines:
         a.   Sufficient evidence shall be presented to show that there will be
no substantial conflict in the periods of peak demand of uses for which joint
use is proposed.
         b.   The number of parking stalls which may be credited against the
requirements for the uses involved will not exceed the number of spaces that
may normally be required for any one of the uses sharing the parking.
         c.   Parking facilities should not be located further than two hundred
fifty feet (250') from any use proposing to use such parking and should be
contiguous to the businesses sharing the lot.
         d.   A written agreement shall be executed by all parties concerned,
assuring the continued availability of shared parking facilities in the event
that one of the uses shall be sold or otherwise change ownership or management.
   I.   Uses Not Specifically Identified Above: For all parking uses not listed
above, the Planning Commission shall determine the number of spaces required
based upon the nearest comparable use standard available.
   J.   Adjust Or Reduce Off-Street Parking Requirements: The planning
commission may approve substitute parking locations where sufficient off-street
parking is readily available within the vicinity and/or where acquisition of
land for such use is not necessary to carry out the spirit of this title. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2016-6, 6-28-2016; Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord.
2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-6: SIGNS:
A building permit shall be required for the placement, construction, and/or
alterations of all signs, unless a sign qualifies as an exempt sign or an
identified temporary sign. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit
a property owner's right to express a religious, political, or other protected
right through speech.
   A.   Signs On Highway:
      1.   Height Limitations: There shall be a thirty-five-foot (35') height
limitation for all signs that front on a highway (including freestanding, wall
and roof signs).
      2.   Size Limitations:
         a.   Three hundred twenty (320) square feet maximum per lot.
         b.   One hundred sixty (160) square feet per individual sign face.
         c.   Square footage is two (2) square feet for each linear foot of
frontage along a public right of way, not to exceed three hundred twenty (320)
square feet.
   B.   Signs On City Streets in Zones C-1, C-2, I-1:
      1.   Height Limitations: There shall be a twenty-foot (20') height
limitation for all signs that front a highway (including freestanding, wall and
roof signs).
      2.   Size Limitations on City Streets: Size limitations for signs that do
not front a highway are as follows:
         a.   One hundred sixty (160) square feet maximum per lot.
         b.   Maximum square footage is one (1) square foot for each linear
foot of frontage along a public right of way, not to exceed one hundred sixty
(160) square feet.
         c.   The total square footage on a lot with two (2) tenants must be
divided between the tenants with proportions decided by the tenants and/or
landlords and cannot exceed one hundred (100) square feet per individual sign
face.
      3.   Projecting And Suspended Signs:
         a.   The height limit will be a maximum of thirty-five feet (35') or
the height of the wall of the building, whichever is lower.
         b.   There shall be an eight foot (8') minimum vertical clearance
above sidewalks, walking areas, or rights of way, and thirty-six (36) square
feet maximum size per sign face.
         c.   Owners of projecting signs over public rights of way must furnish
proof of liability insurance for such signs before a permit will be issued.
      4.   Roof Signs:
         a.   Shall not exceed five feet (5') above the wall line or top of the
exterior wall; unless
         b.   If the peak of the roof is over four feet (4') above the wall
line, roof signs cannot exceed the height of the peak.
         c.   All roof signs must adhere to a thirty-five foot (35') overall
height limitation.
      5.   Lighted Signs:
         a.   All lighted signs shall have stationary and constant lighting.
Signs which use subtle lighting changes as part of a video screen, or
electronic message center, are permitted.
         b.   Lighted signs adjacent to A-1, R-1 and R-2 zones shall be subdued
and shall not be allowed to penetrate beyond the property in such a manner as
to annoy or interfere with the adjacent residential properties. Any complaints
concerning lighted signs adjacent to residential properties can be taken before
the city council. The city council has the authority to dismiss unreasonable
complaints or require the sign(s) to be shielded.
   C.   Signs in Residential Zones (R-1, R-2):
      1.   No advertising signs of any kind shall be allowed in any residential
zone, except signs pertaining to the sale or lease of residential property,
nameplates, institutional signs, or signs indicating the existence of:
         a.   An office of a professional person;
         b.   A home occupation; or
         c.   A guest apartment and/or bed and breakfast establishment.
      2.   Except for institutional signs as described below, no lighted signs
will be permitted.
      3.   Residential signs, except for apartments and public and religious
institutional signs, shall not exceed two (2) square feet in size.
         a.   Apartments and guest apartments may be allowed up to sixteen (16)
square feet of signage if they have more than four (4) units; quadraplexes,
triplexes and duplexes may be allowed up to eight (8) square feet of signage.
(See exempt and temporary sign subsections 1 for exceptions to the square foot
rule.)
         b.   Public, public educational, or religious institutional signs
shall be located entirely upon the premises of that institution, shall not
exceed an area of fifty (50) square feet per frontage, and will be permitted to
have indirect lighting. If mounted on a building, these signs shall be flat
wall signs and shall not project above the roofline. If ground mounted, the top
shall be no more than six feet (6') above ground level.
         c.   Nonprofit, charitable, and private institutional signs in
residential zones shall not exceed two (2) square feet.
   D.   Flags: Flags other than government flags, i.e., country and state,
shall be added toward the maximum allowable signage. Flagpoles that display
government flags shall not exceed thirty-five feet (35') in height in
commercial zones.
   E.   Computations:
      1.   Height: The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from
the highest attached component of the sign to the nearest sidewalk, curb, or
street crown, whichever is highest.
      2.   Individual One-Sided Sign: The area of the sign face that will
encompass the extreme limits of the display, not including any supporting
framework or other backdrop which is clearly incidental to the display, shall
be measured.
      3.   Multifaced Signs: The sign area shall be computed by adding together
the area of all sign faces visible from any point. When two (2) identical sign
faces are placed back- to-back and are part of the same sign structure, not
more than forty-two inches (42") apart, the sign area shall be computed by the
measurement of one of the faces.
   F.   Number Of Freestanding Signs Per Lot or Parcel:
      1.   Primary Frontage: One (1) freestanding sign per lot; one (1)
additional freestanding sign is permitted if property has more than two hundred
feet (200') of frontage (exception: shopping center restrictions). Two (2)
freestanding signs on one property must be separated by one hundred feet
(100'), and the second sign shall not be higher than fifty percent (50%) of the
allowed height.
      2.   Secondary Frontage: One (1) freestanding sign is allowed for each
additional frontage and shall not be higher than fifty percent (50%) of the
allowed height. Two (2) freestanding signs on one property must be separated by
one hundred feet (100'), and the second sign shall not be higher than fifty
percent (50%) of the allowed height.
   G.   Setbacks:
      1.   Signs may not block traffic visibility.
      2.   If a sign is located at an intersection, the following rules apply:
         a.   Signs located within a forty-five-foot (45') triangle (measured
45 feet from the street corner both ways) must be under two and one-half feet
(21/2') tall or should have over eight feet (8') of clearance at the bottom of
the sign.
         b.   This triangle shall be maintained in an open manner so as to
provide a proper clear view area.
         c.   All advertising signs shall be set back from city streets, a
distance at least equal to the distance that buildings are located.
   H.   Shopping Centers; Office Building Complexes:
      1.   Only one (1) freestanding sign is allowed for shopping centers and
office building complexes which lease to three (3) or more businesses on one
(1) lot of record.
      2.   The group freestanding sign identifying the shopping center/office
building complexes and its businesses may use all sign area allowed for that
lot.
      3.   In addition, individual businesses may have one (1) square foot of
signage for each front line of the building, up to a maximum of one hundred
twenty-eight (128) square feet.
   I.   Off Premises Signs:
      1.   Off premises signs shall be limited to Highways 666 491 and 191 and
regulated the same as on premises signs.
      2.   Off premises signs may not exceed a maximum of one hundred twenty-
eight (128) square feet.
   J.   Prohibited Signs:
      1.   It is prohibited for signs erected after adoption hereof to be in
noncompliance with the provisions herein.
      2.   Parked Vehicle Signs: Parked vehicles with a sign painted or placed
on them for the express intent of directing attention to a business are
prohibited. This does not include vehicles used regularly in the course of
conducting daily business activities.
      3.   Signs On Public Rights of Way: No private sign shall be placed on
public rights of way.
      4.   Signs Attached to Public Property: No private sign shall be attached
to public property or public utility poles.
      5.   Flashing Signs: Signs which use flashing, blinking, or strobing
lights are prohibited.
   K.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Temporary signs shall be figured in the total square footage allowed
per lot or parcel.
      2.   Sign owners must designate areas where temporary signs will be
displayed.
      3.   Temporary signs displayed outside of designated areas require a
permit.
      4.   Temporary signs must be maintained and in good condition while being
displayed.
      5.   Signs less than six (6) square feet in size and associated with an
event do not require a permit.
      6.   Mobile Changeable Copy Signs: Mobile changeable copy signs shall not
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet and shall not be displayed for more than
thirty (30) consecutive days.
      7.   Balloon Signs: Balloon signs may be displayed for up to thirty (30)
days per lot or parcel, per year.
      8.   Construction Signs:
         a.   No more than one (1) construction sign identifying a project to
be built and the project participants shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
         b.   Construction signs in residential zones shall not exceed six (6)
square feet in area and five feet (5') in height.
         c.   In commercial zones, the sign area shall not exceed fifty (50)
square feet and shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height.
         d.   Construction signs must not exceed the time period of
construction and/or the day the business opens, whichever comes first, and
shall be counted into the square footage of the total footage allowed for the
lot or parcel.
         e.   An additional thirty-two (32) square feet would be allowed in
commercial zones for artist renditions of the project.
         f.   Proposed development signs may be allowed for ninety (90) days
prior to groundbreaking.
      9.   Political Campaign Signs:
         a.   Political campaign signs shall pertain to a specific election.
         b.   They shall not be located closer than one hundred fifty feet
(150') to any designated polling place and shall not exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet in area.
         c.   Political campaign signs shall be removed within one (1) day
after the election.
         d.   The candidate or person(s) responsible for the placement of the
sign shall be responsible for its removal.
      10.   Real Estate Signs:
         a.   In residential zones, real estate signs shall not exceed six (6)
square feet in area and five feet (5') in height.
         b.   In commercial zones, real estate signs shall not exceed thirty-
two (32) square feet.
         c.   Real estate signs must be placed on the premises of the property
being sold.
         d.   Only one (1) sign per street frontage, per real estate company,
is permitted.
   L.   Exempt Signs: Sign permits are not required for the following signs
unless the limitation and requirements of this section cannot be met:
      1.   Public Signs: Signs of a noncommercial nature, erected by, or on the
order of, a public officer in the performance of his duty.
      2.   Integral Signs: Names of buildings, dates of erection, monumental
citations, commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stone, concrete
or similar material or made of metal or other permanent type construction and
made an integral part of the structure.
      3.   Private Traffic Direction Signs: Signs directing traffic movement
into a premises or within a premises, not exceeding two (2) square feet in area
for each sign.
      Horizontal directional signs on paved areas and flush with paved areas
are exempt from these standards. Only one (1) exempt directional sign is
allowed per frontage, per lot or parcel.
      4.   Service Sign: A sign that is incidental to a use lawfully occupying
the property upon which the sign is located, and which sign is necessary to
provide information to the public, such as direction to parking lots, location
of restrooms, entrance and exits, etc. These signs shall not exceed two (2)
square feet in size.
      5.   Nameplates: A nameplate shall contain only the name of a resident.
      6.   Temporary Decorations: Temporary decorations or displays clearly
incidental and associated with national or local holiday celebrations for a
period not to exceed ninety (90) days per year, per lot or parcel.
      7.   Nonbusiness Temporary Signs: Temporary signs not associated with a
business may be displayed not more than thirty (30) days per year or exceed six
(6) square feet in size.
      8.   Rear Entrance Signs: Rear entrance signs, when associated with
pedestrian walk through buildings. These signs shall not exceed sixteen (16)
square feet in area and shall be flush mounted, identifying only the name of
the establishment and containing directional information.
      9.   Menu Signs: Menu signs at drive-in restaurants which are not
readable from the nearest public right of way; and signs not visible beyond the
boundaries of the lot or parcel upon which they are located or from any public
right of way.
      10.   Private Warning or Instructional Signs: Private warning or
instructional signs not exceeding two (2) square feet per sign.
      11.   Murals: Murals must be painted or attached to the wall of buildings
and are exempt from the sign ordinance except for the lettering and logo
portion of the mural.
      12.   Pennants, Window Dressings, Window Banners: Pennants, window
dressings, window banners are exempt.
   M.   Design, Construction, Maintenance and Liability:
      1.   All signs shall be designed, constructed, and maintained to comply
with applicable provisions of the building codes adopted by the city.
      2.   All signs shall be maintained and in good structural condition.
      3.   Sign owners are liable for their signs.
      4.   The city of Monticello, its officials and other agents, shall in no
way be liable for damages caused by signs.
   N.   Abandoned Signs: Any of the following criteria shall be used to
determine abandonment:
      1.   A sign which identifies an establishment, service(s), goods or
products no longer provided on the premises shall have its copy vacated within
thirty (30) days of when the circumstance commenced. If the copy then remains
vacant for six (6) months, the sign structure shall be removed by the owner
within five (5) working days following expiration of the six (6) month period.
      2.   A sign which identifies a time, event, or purpose which passed or no
longer applies shall be removed by the sign owner within three (3) working days
from the time the event or purpose passed or no longer applies.
      3.   An off-premises advertising sign which is vacant of copy, or which
advertises an establishment, service, goods, or product which no longer exists,
shall be removed by the sign owner within five (5) working days after remaining
in the defined condition for one (1) month.
      4.   When building mounted and painted wall signs or murals are removed,
the face of the structure shall be treated to conform to surrounding building
conditions. Such removal shall not leave evidence of the sign's existence.
   O.   Permit Procedures and Enforcement:
      1.   Permit Required: If a sign requiring a permit under the provisions
of this title is to be placed, constructed, erected, or altered on a lot or
parcel, the sign owner shall secure a building permit from the city prior to
the construction, placement, erection, or alteration of such sign.
      2.   Applications: One (1) application and permit may include multiple
signs on the same lot or parcel. An application for construction, creation, or
installation of a new sign, or for the structural alteration of an existing
sign, shall be accompanied by detailed drawings to scale of all existing and
proposed signs on a lot and must show:
         a.   The height of all signs on a lot;
         b.   The square footage of all individual signs on a lot;
         c.   The total combined square footage of all signs on a lot;
         d.   Site plan indicating length of street frontage, location of
buildings, parking lots, driveways, landscaped areas, and all existing and
proposed signs on the site;
         e.   Overall dimensions, design, structure, materials, proposed copy
and illumination specifications of all signs;
         f.   Photographs of the lot.
      3.   Fees: Each application shall be accompanied by the applicable fee,
which shall be established by resolution of the city council.
      4.   Action: Within five (5) days of the date the application is
submitted, it shall be reviewed by the zoning administrator. If the applicant
complies to all sign ordinance regulations, a permit will be issued. If the
application is found to be incomplete, the applicant shall be notified of the
deficiencies.
      5.   Inspections: The zoning administrator shall conduct an inspection
for each permit issued. If the signs do not comply, the applicant shall be
notified and allowed thirty (30) days to correct the deficiencies. If the
deficiencies are not corrected within thirty (30) days, the permit shall be
rescinded.
      6.   Renewal Of Sign Permits: If sign owners comply with the provisions
of this title and make no structural alterations or changes to their existing
signs, the city shall automatically renew sign permits at the end of every year
when the business license is renewed, without an additional sign permit fee, if
the sign owner has not constructed, placed, erected, or structurally altered
existing signage. A new application must be processed, and an applicable fee
shall be charged for signs constructed, placed, erected, or structurally
altered.
      7.   Lapse Of Sign Permit: A sign permit shall lapse automatically if it
is not renewed, if the business license for the premises lapses or is revoked,
or if the sign is abandoned. If a sign permit elapses, a new permit and payment
of applicable fees are required.
      8.   Registration Of Existing Signs: All signs existing at the time the
ordinance codified herein is passed must be registered with the city by the
sign owner within a two (2) year period and a permit obtained. Existing signs
that do not comply with the ordinance codified herein will be issued a
noncomplying sign permit.
      9.   Nonconforming Sign: A nonconforming sign may not be moved to a new
location, structurally altered, enlarged, or replaced unless it is made to
comply with the provisions of this title. If a nonconforming sign changes
ownership, the sign must comply with the provisions of this title within six
(6) months of close of purchase.
      10.   Violations: Any of the following shall be in violation of this
title and subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this
title, other applicable city ordinances, and state laws:
         a.   To install, create, erect, alter, or maintain any sign in a way
that is inconsistent with any plan or permit governing such sign or the zone
lot or parcel. on which the sign is located;
         b.   To install, create, erect, alter, or maintain any sign requiring
a permit without such a permit;
         c.   To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected,
altered, or maintained in violation of this title, or for which the sign permit
has lapsed; or
         d.   To continue any such violation. Each day of continued violation
shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty portions of
this title.
      11.   Notice, Action and Penalty: The zoning administrator shall issue
notice to sign owners who display signs without a permit and allow thirty (30)
days from the date of notice for the deficiencies to be corrected. If the
deficiencies are not corrected within the given time, the sign owner's business
license may be revoked, a fine may be imposed, or the sign owner may be
convicted of violating a class B misdemeanor.
      12.   Illegal And Non-Maintained Signs: The zoning administrator shall
issue written notice of violation to the sign owner, for any sign found unsafe,
illegal, or not maintained.
      13.   Removal Of Signs: If any unsafe sign is not repaired or made safe
within five (5) days after the owner has been given notice, the zoning
administrator shall have the sign removed. Within thirty (30) days after the
owner has been given written notice of a sign which is found in violation of
this title, is illegal, or not maintained, the zoning administrator shall have
the sign removed. Costs incurred for the removal of a sign will be the
responsibility of the owner and shall be paid to the city within thirty (30)
days.
   P.   Right Of Appeal: Any person who has been ordered by the zoning
administrator to alter or remove any sign, or any person whose application for
a sign permit has been refused, may appeal to the board of adjustment. The
board of adjustment shall have power to review and allow or disallow variances
to the sign ordinance based on powers and duties defined in section
2-2-4 of this code. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2014-6, 10-14-2014,
eff. 10-14-2014; Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-7: PARKING AND STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Intent: The intent of this section is to define locations for the
parking and storage of recreational vehicles such that neighborhood quality and
character are maintained.
      1.   "Recreational vehicle" as defined in section
10-1-4 of this title.
      2.   "Residential areas" as used in this section means property located
within a residential zone and property used for residential purposes located in
zone of the city.
      3.   "Parking" as used in this section means the temporary parking of a
recreational vehicle for a limited period of time as specified in subsection B
or D of this section.
      4.   "Storage" as used in this section means the parking of a
recreational vehicle when it is not in use off site.
      5.   Exemptions:
         a.   Pickup or light truck of ten thousand (10,000) pounds' gross
weight or less with or without a mounted camper unit that is used primarily by
the property owner or tenant for transportation purposes.
         b.   Travel trailer, camp trailer, or motor home when temporarily
located on a lot or parcel on which a building is being constructed and said
vehicle is connected to approved water and sewer facilities for a period of one
(1) year or less.
   B.   Parking Restrictions:
      1.   No recreational vehicle may be parked upon a city street for longer
than twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
      2.   A recreational vehicle may not be parked on a city street in a
manner that obstructs visibility from adjacent driveways or street corners.
      3.   While parked on a city street no pop outs or other lateral extension
of the recreational vehicle shall be deployed.
      4.   No recreational vehicle parked on a city street may be used as a
dwelling.
      5.   A recreational vehicle may be parked in the front setback area of a
residential dwelling for no more than fourteen (14) days per vehicle in any one
(1) calendar year, provided:
         a.   The recreational vehicle is parked on a driveway.
         b.   The residential parking requirement at subsection
10-2-5C of this chapter is still satisfied.
         c.   No portion of the recreational vehicle may extend into the city
street or sidewalk.
         d.   No portion of the vehicle may extend beyond the property line of
the lot or parcel upon which it is parked.
         e.   No effluent, petroleum product, or wastewater is discharged from
the recreational vehicle.
   C.   Storage Requirements:
      1.   No recreational vehicle may be stored upon a city street or
sidewalk.
      2.   A recreational vehicle may be kept in a side or rear yard at the
owner's residence, provided:
         a.   The vehicle is screened from adjacent properties by vegetation,
or a fence built in compliance with section
10-2-14 of this chapter.
         b.   The vehicle is maintained in a clean, well-kept condition that
does not detract from the appearance of the surrounding area.
         c.   The vehicle is operational and currently registered and licensed.
         d.   No effluent, petroleum product, or wastewater is discharged from
the vehicle.
   D.   Recreational Vehicle as A Temporary Dwelling Unit:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to use any parked or stored
recreational vehicle as a permanent dwelling.
      2.   A recreational vehicle may be used as a temporary dwelling when the
vehicle is used by guests who travel in it, provided:
         a.   The recreational vehicle is situated on the host's property in
conformance with subsection B4 or C of this section.
         b.   The vehicle is equipped for sleeping.
         c.   The stay does not exceed fourteen (14) days per vehicle in any
one (1) calendar year.
      3.   A stored recreational vehicle may be used for temporary sleeping
space, provided:
         a.   The vehicle is stored on the owner's property in conformance with
subsection C of this section.
         b.   The vehicle is equipped for sleeping.
         c.   No effluent or wastewater is discharged from the vehicle.
         d.   No portion of the vehicle may extend beyond the property line of
the lot or parcel on which it is situated.
         e.   Use does not exceed thirty (30) days in any one (1) calendar
year. (Ord. 2016-6, 6-28-2016; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-
2024)
10-2-8: CONDITIONAL USES:
The decision to approve or deny a conditional use shall be made by the zoning
administrator. The city will classify any use in a zoning district as either a
permitted or conditional use under this section.
   A.   The City May Issue a Conditional Use Permit When
      1.   The use complies with objective standards set forth in this section;
      2.   The use does not conflict with a provision of city code or other
state or federal law;
      3.   If reasonable conditions are proposed or can be imposed to mitigate
reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed used in accordance
with applicable standards;
      4.   If the city imposes reasonable conditions on a proposed conditional
use, the land use authority shall ensure that the conditions are stated on the
record and reasonably relate to mitigating the anticipated detrimental effects
of a proposed conditional use; and
      5.   Reasonable mitigation of anticipated detrimental effects of the
proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the detrimental
effect.
   B.   Conditional Use Standards of Review: An applicant for a conditional use
in the zone must demonstrate:
      1.   The proposed use complies with all applicable provisions of this
chapter, state and federal law;
      2.   The structures associated with the use are compatible with
surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, mass and circulation;
      3.   The use is not detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare;
      4.   The use is consistent with the city general plan as amended;
      5.   Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by the proposed use,
including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes, pedestrian access,
and capacity of the existing streets;
      6.   There is sufficient utility capacity;
      7.   There is sufficient emergency vehicle access;
      8.   The location and design of off-street parking complies with off
street parking standards;
      9.   A plan for fencing, screening, and landscaping to separate the use
from adjoining uses and mitigate the potential for conflict in uses;
      10.   Exterior lighting that complies with the lighting standards of the
zone;
      11.   Within and adjoining the site, impacts on the aquifer, slope
retention, and flood potential have been reasonably mitigated and are
appropriate to the topography of the site.
   C.   Specific Review Criteria for Home Occupation Conditional Use: In
addition to the requirements at
10-2-8(C), the land use authority must evaluate the applicant's compliance with
each of the following criteria when considering whether to approve, deny or
conditionally approve an application for a home occupation.
      1.   The home occupation is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character of the
building from that of a dwelling;
      2.   The physical appearance, traffic, and other activities in connection
with the home occupation is not contrary to the objectives and characteristics
of the zone in which the home occupation is located, and does not depreciate
surrounding residential values by creating a nuisance in a residential
neighborhood including, but not limited to, generating increased traffic,
excessive noise, offensive odors, etc;
      3.   The home occupation is conducted within the main residential
dwelling and is carried on by residing members of the dwelling, except that
individuals not residing in the dwelling may work at the home occupation,
provided:
         a.   No more than one (1) non-residing employee shall be allowed to
work in the home occupation at any given time; and
         b.   The non-residing employee shall be given access to an on-
premises, hard surfaced parking space (see section
10-2-5, "Off Street Parking Requirements", of this chapter).
      4.   Less than twenty five percent (25%) of the ground floor area of the
dwelling is devoted to the home occupation.
      5.   The home occupation may use an accessory building for business
storage, provided the accessory building meets all city building and zoning
codes including, but not limited to, setbacks designated for R-1 and R-
2 residential zones (see sections
10-6-5 and
10-7-5 of this title).
      6.   The use of yard space for storage of business-related materials
shall not be permitted.
      7.   Signs designating the home occupation shall conform to section
10-2-6(C) of this title.
      8.   Entrance to the home occupation shall be left to the discretion of
the homeowner, and may be defined by a second small directional sign, limited
to twelve inches by twelve inches (12" x 12") in size, at the predesignated
entryway, except:
         a.   The structure and entrance shall be compatible with the
objectives and characteristics of the zone in which the home occupation is
located, and
         b.   When applicable, the entrance to the home occupation shall
conform to regulations imposed by Utah state statute.
      9.   No commercial vehicles are used except one (1) delivery truck which
does not exceed three-fourths (3/4) ton rated capacity.
      10.   The home occupation shall be registered with the license division
or department of the city.
   D.   Small Lots or Parcels: Where a tract of land at the time of the
adoption hereof is at least one and eight-tenths (1.8) times as wide and one
and eight-tenths (1.8) times as large in area as required for a lot or parcel
in the zone, the board of adjustment may permit the division of tract into two
(2) lots, provided:
      1.   Such division will not cause undue concentration of buildings;
      2.   The characteristics of the zone in which the lot is located will be
maintained;
      3.   In the opinion of the board of adjustment, values in the area will
be safeguarded.
   E.   Utility Buildings and Structures Permitted: Water, sewer and electric
buildings and structures may be constructed in all residential zones, subject
to the approval of the board of adjustment. The land use authority may impose
conditions which are reasonably necessary to protect surrounding property
values and residential amenities.
   F.   Moved Buildings:
      1.   No permit for the movement within the city of any residential,
commercial or industrial building which has had prior use shall be issued, as
required under section 10-16-1 of this title without first filing an
application with the zoning administrator. Said application shall contain the
following information:
         a.   Location and address of the old and new site;
         b.   Plot plan of the new location showing adjacent lots or parcels on
all sides of the property and indicating all structures and improvements on
said lots or parcels;
         c.   Plans and specifications for the proposed improvements at the new
location, including plans for landscaping treatment when required by the zoning
administrator;
         d.   Certification by the city engineer that the structure is sound
enough to be moved and that the condition, location and use of the building
will comply with this title and all other applicable codes and ordinances;
         e.   Said building and the lot or parcel on which the building is to
be located will conform to the requirements of this title and other applicable
codes, ordinances and regulations;
         f.   Its location on the lot or parcel does not, in any substantial
way, adversely affect buildings or uses in abutting properties;
         g.   All required dedications and improvements for streets, facilities
and buildings shall be provided in conformity with the standards of the city;
         h.   That adequate provision has been made through the posting of a
bond or other assurance that the building and grounds shall be brought up to
the standards of a new building before it is occupied and that the vacated site
shall be restored to a safe and sightly condition.
      2.   The requirements of this provision shall also apply to the moving of
mobile homes, demountable homes, manufactured homes and similar movable
structures, except when being moved from outside the city into a mobile home
park.
   G.   Transitional Uses: Uses which are permitted on either portion of a lot
or parcel which is divided by a zone boundary line, or which is coterminous
with a zone boundary line, may be permitted to extend to the entire lot or
parcel, but not more than one hundred feet (100') beyond the boundary line of
such zone in which such use is permitted.
      Before a permit for such a use may be granted, however, the planning
commission must find that the comprehensive plan of zoning will be maintained
and that a more harmonious mixing of uses will be achieved thereby.
   H.   Applicant's Entitlement to Conditional Use Application Approval:
      1.   An applicant is entitled to approval of a conditional use
application if the application conforms to the requirements of the applicable
land use regulations, land use decisions, and development standards in effect
when the applicant submits a complete application and pay application fees,
unless:
         a.   The land use authority, on the record, formally finds that a
compelling, countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving
the application and specifies the compelling, countervailing public interest in
writing; or
         b.   In the manner provided by local ordinance and before the
applicant submits the application, the municipality formally initiates
proceedings to amend the municipality's land use regulations in a manner than
would prohibit approval of the application as submitted.
      2.   The city shall process an application without regard to proceedings
the city initiated to amend the city's ordinances as described in this title
if:
         a.   180 days have passed since the city initiated the proceedings;
and
         b.   The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits
approval of the conditional use application as submitted.
      3.   A conditional use application is considered submitted and completed
when the applicant provides the application form that complies with the
requirements of applicable ordinances and pays all applicable fees.
      4.   The continuing validity of an approval of a conditional use permit
is conditioned upon the applicant proceeding after approval to implement the
approval with reasonable diligence.
      5.   The City may impose standards and reasonable conditions to mitigate
the detrimental effects of conditional uses.
   I.   Permit Revocation:
      1.   The city council may revoke the conditional use permit of any person
upon a finding that the holder of the permit has failed to comply with any of
the conditions imposed at the time the permit was issued. The city council
shall send notice of the revocation to the holder of the permit and the holder
of the permit shall immediately cease any use of the property which was based
on the conditional use permit.
      2.   If the city council revokes any permit under this section, the
holder of the permit shall have a right to appeal the revocation of the permit.
The holder must file the appeal with the city recorder within fifteen (15) days
of the date of the notice that the city has revoked the conditional use permit.
      3.   Upon receipt of the appeal, the city council shall set a hearing on
the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting which is more than fifteen
(15) days after the time the city recorder received the appeal. The city shall
supply the permit holder of the time, date and place of the hearing at least
fifteen (15) days before the hearing. At the hearing, the permit holder shall
have the right to be heard on the revocation.
   J.   Time Limit:
      1.   Action authorized by a conditional use permit must commence within
one (1) calendar year of the time the permit is issued.
      2.   If the permit holder has not commenced action under the permit
within this time, the permit shall expire, and the holder must apply for a new
permit.
      3.   The planning commission may grant an extension for good cause shown.
Only one (1) extension may be granted, and the maximum extension shall be six
(6) months. In order to obtain an extension, the permit holder must:
         a.   Apply for an extension in writing before the expiration of the
original permit;
         b.   Submit the application to the city recorder; and
         c.   Describe on the application the cause for requesting the
extension. (Ord. passed 11-29-2022; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-9: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Intent: The following regulations are provided to accommodate certain
uses which are temporary or seasonal in nature.
   B.   Permitted Temporary Uses: Certain uses may be permitted on a temporary
basis in any zone when approved by the city council. Said temporary uses may
include, but will not be limited to:
         Carnivals and circuses.
         Christmas tree sales lots.
         Construction storage yards, when required in connection with a primary
construction project.
         Flower stands.
         Music festivals.
         Political rallies.
         Promotional displays.
         Rummage sales.
         Tents for religious services.
   C.   Application For Temporary Use:
      1.   Prior to the establishment of any temporary use, an application for
a temporary use permit shall be submitted to and approved by the city council.
Said application shall contain the following information:
         a.   A description of the proposed use;
         b.   A description of the property to be used, rented, or leased for
the temporary use, including all information necessary to accurately portray
the property;
         c.   Sufficient information to determine the yard requirements,
sanitary facilities and availability of parking space to service the proposed
use.
      2.   Approval Required: The city council may approve said application
provided the council finds:
         a.   The proposed use is listed as a permitted temporary use or, in
the opinion of the city council, is similar to those uses permitted.
         b.   The proposed use will not create excessive traffic hazards or
other unsafe conditions in the area and, if traffic control is required, it
will be provided at the expense of the applicant.
         c.   The proposed use shall not occupy the site for more than ten (10)
days, except for Christmas tree lots which shall not occupy the site for more
than forty (40) days, and construction storage yards which shall be removed
within thirty (30) days following completion of the primary construction
project for which the temporary permit was issued.
         d.   The applicant will have sufficient liability insurance for the
requested use or event.
         e.   The applicant shall provide, at his own expense, for the
restoration of the site to its original conditions, including cleanup and
replacement of facilities as may be necessary.
   D.   City Council May Delegate Approval Responsibility; Exceptions:
      1.   The city council may authorize the zoning administrator to issue
temporary use permits for certain temporary uses without council review. Where
the request is for a temporary use which is not listed or where the
characteristics of the proposed use are not in compliance with the above
standards, the zoning administrator shall refer the application to the city
council for its action.
      2.   In granting approval, the city council may attach additional
conditions as it deems appropriate to ensure that the use will not pose any
detriment to persons or property. The Council may also require a bond to ensure
that necessary cleanup or restoration work will be performed. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-
10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-10: PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definition: A "portable storage container" includes any of the
following types of buildings, structures, or vehicles:
      1.   Metal shipping container of the type commonly marketed for storage,
and which can be delivered or removed by semitrailer, regardless of whether
such structure is located on a foundation or slab.
      2.   Semitrailer or other trailer whether such vehicle is parked on or
off a city street, and which does not have a current Utah license and
inspection.
      3.   Box from a delivery truck when such has been removed from the
chassis.
   B.   Appropriate Use of Portable Storage Containers: No portable storage
container may be placed in any zone unless it meets the following criteria:
      1.   The placement of the portable storage container cannot block traffic
or interfere with access for public safety.
      2.   Used containers must have all prior identifying markings removed.
      3.   Advertising on such containers will be limited to the promotion of
the commercial entity located on the same lot as the container and shall comply
with the sign ordinance.
      4.   The container must be maintained to match the commercial building
decor located on the same lot or it must be hidden from view by a fence.
      5.   Semitrailers or other trailers used as storage containers must also
have axles removed.
      6.   Permanent placement is allowed within residential zones when it is
authorized by City permit.
         a.   Container cannot be placed in a front yard or within the twenty-
foot (20') side setback of a side yard that fronts on a street.
         b.   The placement of the portable storage container cannot block
traffic or interfere with access for public safety or utilities.
         c.   Used containers must have all prior identifying markings removed.
         d.   The container must be maintained to match the residential
building decor located on the same lot. or parcel.
         e.   Semitrailers or other trailers used as storage containers must
also have axles removed.
      7.   Temporary placement is allowed for storage of tools, materials, and
supplies at an active construction site in all zones, for a period not to
exceed eight (8) months and when authorized by permit.
         a.   Placement of the portable storage container cannot block traffic
or interfere with access for public safety.
         b.   Temporary placement is limited to one (1) container per lot or
parcel for any twelve (12) month period.
   C.   Maximum Size:
      1.   The maximum size for any permitted portable storage container
located in R-1, R-2, and C-2 Zones is three hundred sixty (360) square feet and
cannot exceed ten feet (10') in height.
      2.   The maximum size for any permitted portable storage container
located in C-1, I-1, and A-1 Zones is four hundred and fifty (450) square feet,
with the exception of residences located in C-1 and I-1 Zones; in which case,
the maximum size for any permitted portable storage container is three hundred
sixty (360) square feet.
      3.   Portable storage containers can be attached or detached from the
main structure, provided that the location of the containers comply with
setbacks for the zone in which the portable storage containers are placed.
   D.   Permit Required: A permit is required for all portable storage
containers.
      1.   Any portable storage container greater than or equal to two hundred
(200) square feet is considered an accessory building and requires a separate
building permit in addition to a portable storage container permit.
      2.   Any portable storage container less than two hundred (200) square
feet requires only a portable storage container permit, unless electricity is
proposed to be installed.
      3.   The city zoning administrator is the approval authority for this
permit.
   E.   Prohibited Uses:
      1.   No modular home, house trailer, vehicle, or camp trailer can be used
for storage, whether permanent or temporary.
      2.   All existing portable storage containers that do not meet the
appropriate uses (above) will be removed at the owner's expense.
      3.   No person may dwell in a container, nor shall a container be
otherwise used for human occupation. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2018-
4, 4-10-2018; Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-11: CHICKENS:
This section shall provide residents of the community the opportunity to
maintain up to ten (10) hen chickens as pets and for the purpose of producing
eggs, subject to the described restrictions and regulations. The objective is
to cultivate localized self-supporting and sustainable behavior for the
betterment of the local, regional, and world community.
   A.   General Conditions: In all A-1, R-1, R-2 Zones and planned unit
developments in the City of Monticello, and only for those single-family
residential uses in the commercial zones, up to and not exceeding more than ten
(10) hen chickens for egg production as family food, shall be allowed.
   B.   Prohibited Uses:
      1.   No roosters shall be allowed in the R-1, R-2, and any commercial
zone or in planned unit developments. If chickens are purchased as chicks and
any are determined at a later date to be roosters, they shall be removed
immediately upon determination of gender;
      2.   Fighting chickens are not allowed;
      3.   Hen chickens shall not be raised for slaughter for commercial
purposes.
   C.   Standards For Containment:
      1.   Hens shall be securely fenced and confined to the rear yard of the
property.
      2.   Any permanent hen shelter must comply with the accessory structure
requirements. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-
02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-12: DIAGONAL PARKING:
Diagonal parking will be permitted on any City Street located in a C-1 or C-
2 Zone so long as the following conditions are met:
   A.   Size/Marking:
      1.   The dimensions of each diagonal parking space shall be at least nine
feet by eighteen feet (9' x 18') and set at an angle of sixty degrees (60°)
from the curb.
      2.   All diagonal parking spaces must be clearly marked with approved
white marking paint and must be four inches (4") wide.
      3.   It is the responsibility of the property owner abutting the diagonal
parking spaces to paint and maintain the markings of the parking spaces.
   B.   Street Width:
      1.   The city street where the diagonal parking will be located must be
at least sixty feet (60') wide.
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   Diagonal parking must be set back from any intersection not less
than thirty feet (30').
      2.   No diagonal parking space is permitted to encroach into a driveway
access.
      3.   Clear access to any fire hydrant shall be no less than three feet
(3') on both sides of the fire hydrant. This clear space shall be striped as a
no parking zone. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord.
2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-13: FENCES ON PROPERTY USED FOR RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES:
   A.   Fences shall be erected on or within property lines.
   B.   Property owners shall be responsible for identifying property line
locations.
   C.   All heights of fences will be measured from the ground level.
   D.   Interior Lots or Parcels:
      1.   Fences shall have a maximum height of four feet (4') in the required
yard that fronts a street.
      2.   Side and back yard fences will have a maximum height of six feet
(6') provided that the six-foot-high fence does not extend into the required
yard that fronts a street.
   E.   Corner Lots or Parcels:
      1.   Corner lot or parcel fences must maintain a forty-five degree (45°)
clear view of intersecting streets, at a height of no more than four feet (4').
      2.   The height of the fence in the front yard on a corner lot or parcel
will have a maximum height of four feet (4'). A front yard on a corner lot or
parcel is the yard that contains the formal public entrance to the main
building.
      3.   Side and back yard fences will have a maximum height of six feet
(6') as long as it does not infringe upon the forty-five degree (45°) clear
view triangle space.
   F.   Clear View of Intersecting Streets: In all zones which require a front
yard, no obstruction which will obscure the view of automobile drivers shall be
placed on any corner lot or parcel within a triangular area formed by the
street property lines and a line connecting them at points of forty-five feet
(45') from the intersection of the street lines. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd.
Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-14: FENCES ON PROPERTY USED FOR COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL PURPOSES:
   A.   Fences shall be erected on or within property lines.
   B.   Property owners shall be responsible for identifying property line
locations.
   C.   All heights of fences will be measured from the ground level. (Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-15: SOLAR ELECTRICITY SYSTEMS:
The purpose of this section is to allow the use of solar electricity systems
within the city provided that:
   A.   A building permit from the city is required prior to installation of
any solar electricity system.
   B.   Structurally attached solar panels are subject to all applicable
building codes and ordinances.
   C.   Solar electricity systems not mounted on a roof are prohibited within
the setbacks required for the zone in which the solar installation will be
erected.
   D.   Solar electricity systems not mounted on a roof are prohibited to be
higher than the maximum height allowed for a structure or building within the
zone in which the solar installation will be erected. (Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-16: RENTAL OF DWELLING UNITS:
   A.   Long-term rental unit means a building or structure that is used or
designated for use as a residence by one or more persons, and is;
      1.   Available to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a period of
thirty (30) consecutive days or longer; or
      2.   Arranged, designated, or built to be rented, loaned, leased, or
hired out for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.
   B.   Internal accessory dwelling units shall:
      1.   Be allowed as a permitted use in any R-1 and R-2 zone;
      2.   Be designed in a manner that does not change the appearance of the
primary dwelling unit;
      3.   Include one (1) additional on-site parking space regardless of
whether the primary dwelling unit is existing or new construction;
      4.   Replace existing parking spaces if the internal accessory unit is
created within a garage or carport;
      5.   Meet all applicable building, health, and fire codes;
      6.   Not be created in a primary dwelling unit served by a failing septic
tank;
      7.   Not be created on a lot or parcel of land containing the primary
dwelling unit if the lot or parcel of land is 6,000 square feet or less in
size;
      8.   Not be created within a zoning district covering an area that is
equivalent to 25% or less of the total area in the city that is zoned primarily
for residential use;
      9.   Not require a separate city utility meter.
   D.   Short-term unit means a building or structure that is used or
designated for use as a residence by one or more persons, and is:
      1.   Available to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a period
fewer than thirty (30) consecutive days;
      2.   Arranged, designated, or built to be rented, loaned, leased, or
hired out for a period fewer than thirty (30) consecutive days;
      3.   A short-term unit shall:
         a.   Meet all applicable building codes;
         b.   Conform to standards as defined by the city codes Title 4-
2 Nuisances, Title 4-2A Noise Control, and Title 5-2 Animal Control;
         c.   Include in a clear and prominent location within each short-term
unit:
            (1)   A copy of the owner's business license;
            (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the owner or property
manager;
            (3)   A statement of maximum occupancy for the short-term rental
unit;
            (4)   Provide a minimum of four (4) off-street parking spaces with
all-weather surface;
            (5)   The owner of any short-term rental unit is required to
collect and remit Transient Room Tax and any other tax deemed necessary by the
State Tax Commission.
   E.   Business license required:
      1.   Owners of rental dwellings shall obtain a city license in advance of
advertising for or renting, loaning, leasing, or hiring out:
         a.   A long-term rental unit;
         b.   An internal accessory dwelling unit;
         c.   A detached accessory dwelling unit;
         d.   A short-term rental unit.
      2.   One (1) city license may include more than one long-term rental and
internal accessory dwelling unit owned by the same individual but shall not
include short-term rental units.
      3.   One (1) city license may include more than one short-term rental
unit owned by the same individual but shall not include other rental units or
internal accessory dwelling units.
      4.   A person managing any rental unit who is not the owner of said unit,
shall obtain a city property management license in advance of managing the
rental units. (Ord. passed 11-29-2022; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-17: DETACHED ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
   A.   Detached accessory dwelling units shall be allowed in the R-1 and R-
2 zones.
   B.   To be considered a detached accessory dwelling unit, a building shall:
      1.   Be detached from the main dwelling unit;
      2.   Be located on the same lot or parcel as the main dwelling unit;
      3.   Be constructed to applicable building codes for use as a dwelling;
      4.   Meet all setback requirements for an accessory building in the zone
in which the lot or parcel is located;
      5.   Be provided with municipal water through a connection with the main
dwelling;
      6.   Be on a permanent foundation.
   C.   The minimum ground floor living area of a detached accessory dwelling
unit shall be two hundred (200) square feet. The maximum ground floor living
area of a detached accessory dwelling unit shall be nine hundred (900) square
feet.
   D.   No detached accessory dwelling unit shall be occupied, rented, or
leased unless the owner of the lot or parcel is a full-time resident of the
main dwelling on the lot or parcel.
   E.   A permit shall be obtained from the city before a detached accessory
dwelling unit is placed on a lot or parcel. If the detached accessory dwelling
unit is constructed on-site, a building permit is also required from the city.
(Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-18: COMMERCIAL PLUG-IN ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS:
   A.   As used in this section the following definitions apply:
      1.   Applicable zones: C-1 Commercial Zone; C-2 Light Commercial Zone; I-
1 Industrial Zone.
      2.   Charging Station Land Owner: The person or entity that owns the land
on which an electric vehicle charging station is located.
      3.   Charging Station Operator: A person or entity that operates a
commercial electric vehicle charging station and may also own the charging
station equipment.
      4.   Commercial Electric Vehicle Charging Station: A parking stall or
space served by a Level 2 or Level 3 charger that has as its primary purpose
the transfer of electric energy to an electric vehicle, and for which service a
fee shall be charged in compliance with Utah code Title 59, Chapter 30 Electric
Vehicle Charging Tax.
      5.   The owner/operator of the commercial plug-in electric vehicle
charging station shall not be considered a public utility and must obtain the
electricity the electric company currently providing electric services to the
City of Monticello.
      6.   Electric Vehicle: Any vehicle that operates, either partially or
exclusively, on electrical energy from the grid, or a source that is stored on
board for motive purposes. Electric vehicles include a battery-powered vehicle,
a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle, and any two-wheel vehicle that operates
exclusively on electrical energy from a source stored on board the vehicle.
      7.   Level 2 Charger: Operates on 240 volts alternating current and is
considered a medium speed recharger.
      8.   Level 3 Charger: Operates on direct current and is considered a
rapid charger.
      9.   Universal Connecting Device: A mechanism or adapter designed to
facilitate the electrical connection between the charging station's output and
the electric vehicles charging port. To ensure interoperability across a wide
range of electric vehicles, this device must be compatible with the
standardized charging interfaces adopted internationally or by predominant
automotive and electrical standards organizations.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall apply to:
      1.   New commercial buildings and accessory buildings, parking lots, and
parking garages in the applicable zones.
      2.   Modification of existing off-street parking areas.
   C.   Level 3 plug-in electric (PEV) charging stations shall not be installed
in any residential dwelling regardless of the zone in which the residential
unit is located.
   D.   Commercial plug-in electric vehicle (PEV) charging stations shall be a
permitted use in the applicable zones within the city, provided:
      1.   The installation complies with the building, electric, fire, and
safety codes adopted by the city; and
      2.   The installation complies with requirements the current electric
provide for the City of Monticello, as evidenced by a letter signed by them
addressing the specific requirements of the installation; and
      3.   The transformer unit is installed within a utility easement; and
      4.   The charging station outlets and connector devices are:
         a.   Not located within a public street right-of-way or on any portion
of a public sidewalk required to meet the Americans with Disabilities Act; and
         b.   The charging station outlets and connector devices are not within
a utility easement, unless written consent has been submitted with the building
permit application granting permission; and
      5.   The connecting device shall be universal; and
      6.   The installation complies with applicable portions of the Americans
with Disabilities Act.
   E.   Wherever the city zoning regulations require off-street parking at
least ten percent (10%) of the required stalls or spaces in the applicable
zones shall be equipped with commercial plug-in electric vehicle charging
stations. When the calculation of percentage results in a fractional number of
stalls or space, the applicant shall round up to the next whole number.
      1.   Wherever parking requirements are met by providing off-street
parking stalls or spaces on adjacent lots or parcels, the applicant may satisfy
the requirements of this section by entering into a written agreement whereby
both properties are combined for purposes of calculating the number of parking
stalls or space reserved for commercial plug-in electric vehicle charging
stations and the two properties, taken together, meet the minimum requirements
contained herein.
      2.   Said agreement shall be notarized and recorded with the county
recorder and copy of the document bearing the county's imprints shall be
provided to the zoning administrator at the time the applicant applies for a
building permit. Recording and copy costs shall be paid by the parties to the
agreement.
   F.   Commercial plug-in electric vehicle (PEV) charging stations may be
Level 2 or Level 3. Installation of Level 2 or Level 3 commercial charging
stations shall comply with all requirements at
10-2-17(D) and these additional requirements:
      1.   Lighting: If the charging station is more than one hundred fifty
(150) feet from an existing streetlight, the station shall include lights on
the charging station for use during night hours.
      2.   Setback from property lines, buildings, and structures:
         a.   Commercial electric vehicle charging stations shall not be closer
to a main building or accessory structure than 25 feet as measured from the
closest point of the building or accessory structure and the nearest piece of
equipment of the commercial electric vehicle charging station.
         b.   Charge points for commercial electric vehicle charging shall be
no closer to one another than ten (10) feet.
         c.   Commercial electric vehicle charging stations shall not be closer
to fuel storage or fuel dispensing structures than twenty (20) feet.
      3.   A garbage/refuse container shall be placed no more than 20 feet from
the footprint of the charging station and shall be secured to prevent wind
scatter of garbage/refuse. The charging station operator shall be responsible
for garbage/refuse collection and disposal in conformance with city code.
      4.   Charging station outlets and connector devices shall be no less than
36 inches and no more than 48 inches from the ground or pavement surface where
mounted, and
      5.   Charging station outlets and connector devices shall contain a
retraction device and/or place to hang permanent cords and connectors at least
six (6) inches above the ground or pavement surface; and
      6.   Where mounted on pedestals, posts, or other devices, connectors and
cords shall be located so as to not impede pedestrian travel or create trip
hazards on sidewalks.
      7.   Proper use and storage of the outlets and connector devices shall be
illustrated on a sign posted on the charging equipment.
      8.   The property owner or charging station operator shall post a sign
stating "stalls or space reserved for charging of electric vehicles" not
greater than 17 x 22 inches with lettering not less than one inch in height.
      9.   Stall required for compliance with the American with Disabilities
Act:
         a.   One stall for charging stations with three connectors or fewer;
         b.   One stall for every four connectors for stations with four or
more connectors.
      10.   Charging station equipment shall be maintained in all respects,
including the functioning of the charging equipment. A phone number or other
contact information shall be provided on the charging station equipment for
reporting when the equipment is not functioning, or other problems are
encountered.
   G.   An operator of a commercial electric vehicle charging station shall
obtain a business license from the city prior to allowing use of the station.
If an operator is not the property owner, an affidavit from the property owner
is required to authorize an operator for the station.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing a vehicle
in a stall or space designated for the recharging of plug-in electric vehicles
(PEV) in the applicable zones unless the vehicle is connected for electric
charging purposes. Unlawful use of a stall reserved for electric vehicle(s) can
be:
   I.   Subject to a fine as determined in Ord. 2023-3 passed June 27, 2023.
   J.   The offending vehicle may be towed and impounded at the vehicle owner's
expense.
   K.   It shall be unlawful for any person to disconnect a vehicle from an
electric charging station when that vehicle is owned or controlled by another
person. For those in violation a fine will be issued as determined in City Ord.
2023-3 passed June 27, 2023.
      1.   Exceptions: Law Enforcement and Fire Fighter Officials may
disconnect a vehicle when required for public safety. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-2-19: LANDSCAPING REQUIRED:
   A.   For completed residential buildings and permitted business uses with
existing landscapes in place on or prior to April 23, 2024:
      1.   Front yards and side yards of all residential buildings which front
on city streets must be landscaped.
      2.   Front yards and side yards of permitted business uses shall be
landscaped unless paved as part of a sidewalk or parking area.
      3.   Any changes to existing landscapes made after April 23, 2024 shall
consider water efficient techniques including but not limited to the reduction
of grass in front and side yards.
   B.   For new residential buildings and permitted business uses under
development after April 23, 2024:
      1.   No lawn shall be laid in parking strips or areas less than eight
feet (8') in width;
      2.   No more than fifty percent (50%) of front and side yards of
residential buildings shall be lawn unless the residential lot has less than
two hundred fifty (250) square feet of landscaped area;
      3.   Lawns in common areas in the C-1, C-2, I-1, and R-2 zones shall not
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total landscaped area outside of active
recreation areas.
      4.   Lawns in common areas at schools, churches, mobile home parks, and
tiny home parks shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total landscaped
area outside of active recreation areas.
      5.   Active recreation area shall mean the same as defined in Utah Code §
11-39-108 Use of Lawn or Turf. (Ord. 2024-3, 4-23-2024)
CHAPTER 3
NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Intent
10-3-2: Noncomplying Buildings and Nonconforming Uses
10-3-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to accumulate provisions applying to all land and
buildings within the incorporated area of the city into one section rather than
to repeat them several times. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-
27-2024)
10-3-2: NONCOMPLYING BUILDINGS AND NONCONFORMING USES:
It is the intent of this title that noncomplying buildings, structures, or
portions thereof and nonconforming uses shall not be increased nor expanded
except where a health or safety official, acting in his/her official capacity,
requires such increase or expansion. Such expansion shall be no greater than
that which is required to comply with the minimum requirements as set forth by
the health or safety official. Nevertheless, a noncomplying building or
structure or use of land may be continued as provided in this subsection.
   A.   Permit Required: The City Council acting in its role as land use
authority for this section shall deny or approve noncomplying buildings and
nonconforming uses.
      1.   Except as provided in this section, a nonconforming use or
noncomplying structure may be continued by the present or future property
owner.
      2.   A nonconforming use may be extended through the same building,
provided no structural alteration of the building is proposed or made for the
purpose of the extension.
      3.   For purposes of this subsection the addition of a solar energy
device to a building is not a structural alteration.
   B.   The city may not prohibit the reconstruction or restoration of a
noncomplying structure or terminate the nonconforming use of a structure that
is involuntarily destroyed in whole or in part due to fire or other calamity
unless the structure or use has been abandoned.
   C.   The city may prohibit the reconstruction or restoration of a
noncomplying structure or terminate the nonconforming use of a structure if:
      1.   The structure is allowed to deteriorate to a condition that the
structure is rendered uninhabitable and is not repaired or restored within six
(6) months after the day on which written notice is served to the property
owner that the structure is uninhabitable and that the noncomplying structure
or nonconforming use will be lost if the structure is not repaired or restored
within six (6) months; or
      2.   The property owner has voluntarily demolished a majority of the
noncomplying structure or the building that houses the nonconforming use.
   D.   Notwithstanding a prohibition in this subsection, the city may permit a
billboard owner to relocate a nonconforming billboard:
      1.   Within the city's boundaries to a location that is mutually
acceptable to the city and the billboard owner; or
      2.   If the city and billboard owner cannot agree to a mutually
acceptable location within 180 days after the day on which the owner submits a
written request to relocate the billboard, the billboard owner may relocate the
billboard in accordance with
10-2-6 Signs.
   E.   Presumption of legal existence for noncomplying structure or
nonconforming use:
      1.   Unless the city establishes, by ordinance, a uniform presumption of
legal existence for nonconforming uses, the property owner shall have the
burden of establishing the legal existence of a noncomplying structure or
nonconforming use.
      2.   Any party claiming that a nonconforming use has been abandoned shall
have the burden of establishing the abandonment.
   F.   Abandonment may be presumed to have occurred if:
      1.   A majority of the primary structure associated with the
nonconforming use has been voluntarily demolished without prior written
agreement with the city regarding an extension of the nonconforming use;
      2.   The use has been discontinued for a minimum of one year; or
      3.   The primary structure associated with the nonconforming use remains
vacant for a period of one year.
   G.   The property owner may rebut the presumption of abandonment under
subsection F and has the burden of establishing that any claimed abandonment
under subsection has not occurred.
   H.   Change To a Conforming Use:
      1.   A nonconforming use or noncomplying building may be changed to a
conforming use or building.
      2.   Any nonconforming use or noncomplying building which has been
changed to a conforming use or building shall not thereafter be changed back to
a nonconforming use or noncomplying building.
      3.   Change To Another Nonconforming Use Prohibited: A nonconforming use
or noncomplying building or lot shall not be changed to another nonconforming
use or noncomplying building whatsoever. Changes in use shall be made only to a
conforming use.
   I.   Reclassification Of Territory: The provisions pertaining to
nonconforming uses of land and noncomplying buildings and structures shall also
apply to land and buildings and structures which hereafter become nonconforming
or noncomplying due to an amendment in this zoning title.
   J.   Permits Granted Prior To Passage Of The Ordinance Or Amendment Thereto:
Notwithstanding the issuance of a permit therefor, no building which becomes
noncomplying upon the passage of the ordinance codified herein, or which
becomes noncomplying due to an amendment to the ordinance codified herein,
shall be built unless construction has taken place thereon to the extent of at
least five hundred dollars ($500.00) in replaceable value by the date on which
the ordinance codified herein or said amendment becomes effective. Replaceable
value shall be construed to mean the expenditure necessary to duplicate the
materials and labor at market prices. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 4
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
SECTION:
10-4-1: Zones Established
10-4-2: Official Zone Map
10-4-3: Boundaries Of Zones
10-4-1: ZONES ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the purposes of this title, the City of Monticello, Utah,
is hereby divided into zones as follows:
A-1 Residential-Agricultural Zone
A-1  Residential-Agricultural Zone
R-1  Residential Zone
R-2  Residential Zone
C-1  Commercial Zone
C-2  Light Commercial Zone
I-1  Industrial Zone
G-1  Government Lands and Parks
OL-1 Overlay Zone (US Dept. of Energy Supplemental Standard)
OL-2 Overlay Zone (Flood Areas and Drainage Corridor Protection)
OL-3 Overlay Zone (Water Source Protection)
 
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2016-8, 10-11-2016; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-
2024)
10-4-2: OFFICIAL ZONE MAP:
The location and boundaries of each of the zones are shown on the official zone
map of Monticello, Utah, and said map is hereby declared to be an official
record and part of this title.
   A.   Whenever amendments or changes are made in zone boundaries, such
amendments or changes shall be made on the official zone map promptly. No
amendment or change shall become effective until after it has been properly
noted and attested to on the official zone map.
   B.   No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zone map except
in conformity with the procedure set forth in this title. Any unauthorized
changes of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a
violation of this title and punishable as provided in this title.
   C.   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zone
map which may from time to time be made or published, the official zone map
shall be located in the Office of the City Recorder and shall be the final
authority in determining current zoning status.) (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd.
Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-4-3: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of various zones, the
following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where the intended boundaries on the zone map are approximate street or
alley lines, said street or alleys shall be construed to be the zone
boundaries.
   B.   Where the indicated boundaries are approximate lot lines, said lot
lines shall be construed to be the zone boundaries, unless otherwise indicated.
   C.   Where land has not been subdivided into lots, the zone boundary shall
be determined by the use of the scale of measurement shown on the map. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 5
A-1 AGRICULTURAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-5-1: Regulations
10-5-2: Intent
10-5-3: Permitted Uses
10-5-4: Area And Frontage Requirements
10-5-5: Location Requirements
10-5-6: Height Of Buildings
10-5-7: Size Of Dwelling
10-5-8: Width Of Buildings
10-5-9: Yard Space For One Main Building Only
10-5-10: Every Dwelling To Be On A Lot Or Parcel
10-5-11: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space Prohibited
10-5-12: Yards To Be Unobstructed; Exceptions
10-5-13: Accessory Buildings Prohibited As Living Quarters
10-5-14: Storage Of Junk, Debris, Or Unlicensed Inoperable Vehicles Prohibited
10-5-15: Sewage Disposal
10-5-16: Water Connections
10-5-17: Drainage
10-5-18: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
10-5-19: Effect Of Street Plan
10-5-20: Motor Vehicle Access
10-5-21: Landscaping Required
10-5-22: Pollution Prevention
10-5-23: Special Provisions
10-5-1: REGULATIONS:
The use, location, height and size of buildings and structures, the use of land
and size of lots, yards, courts and other open spaces and the density of
population are regulated as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-2: INTENT:
A-1 agricultural zone covers certain fringe areas of the city where residential
areas may be integrated with the raising of livestock for family food
production and for the pleasure of the people who reside on the premises. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted
upon compliance with requirements set forth in this title:
         Accessory buildings.
         Bunkhouses used by workers and staff.
         Churches, not including temporary revival tents or buildings.
         Fences, walls and hedges.
         Foster care homes.
         Grain bins and silos.
         Household pets.
         Landscape businesses, exclusive of gravel crushing and which do not
violate dust, noise, or nuisance ordinances.
         Machinery and equipment sheds used for storage of equipment in
connection with agricultural activities performed on the premises.
         Mobile home parks meeting the requirements of chapter 13 of this
title.
         Plant nursery.
         Public agency arenas such as rodeo grounds, equestrian sports
facilities, fairgrounds.
         Public agency parks and playgrounds.
         Public buildings and grounds, not including storage yards or repair
shops.
         Public, private and parochial schools and grounds.
         Single- and two-family dwellings of conventional construction and
manufactured homes.
         The care and keeping of livestock and fowl. Also barns, corrals, pens
and sheds for the care and keeping of the permitted animals and fowl.
         The growing of field crops and fruit.
         Veterinary clinics and animal boarding facilities.
   B.   The following uses are permitted when in compliance with the specified
sections of Title 10, Zoning Regulations:
         All signs shall conform with section
10-2-6 of this title.
         Conditional uses shall conform with section
10-2-8 of this title.
         Temporary uses shall conform with section
10-2-9 of this title.
         Portable Storage Containers shall conform with section
10-2-10 of this title
         Fences shall conform with section
10-2-14 of this title.
         Solar Electricity Systems shall conform with section
10-2-16 of this title
   C.   The following uses are permitted as conditional uses.
         Daycare, nursery, preschool.
         Rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent homes, assisted living homes.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area and width requirements for all uses shall be a minimum of one
acre.
   B.   Frontage at setback line shall be a minimum of one hundred twenty-five
feet (125'). (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-
02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-5: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Setback:
      1.   Main Setback: All dwellings and other structures shall be set back
according to the special conditions noted below:
         a.   Where the legal property line of the lot or parcel is located at
the back of a street curb or back of pavement and there is no curb, the front
setback shall be fifty feet (50') from the front lot or parcel line.
         b.   Where the legal property line of the lot or parcel is located
within the street pavement or gravel area, the front setback shall be forty
feet (40') from the front lot or parcel line.
         c.   Where the legal property line of the lot or parcel is located
more than ten feet (10') from the street pavement or gravel area, the front
setback shall be twenty feet (20') from the front lot or parcel line.
         d.   Where the legal property line of the lot or parcel line is
angular to the roadway and there is less than twenty feet (20') between the
legal property line and the street pavement or gravel area, then the front
setback shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') from the nearest point of the
street pavement or gravel area.
      2.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings shall be set back not
less than twenty feet (20') to the rear of the closest rear wall line of the
main building and not less than twelve feet (12') from any side wall of the
main building. Accessory buildings which are located twelve feet (12') or
closer to a main building shall be considered as part of the main building.
Where no main building exists on a lot or parcel, a detached accessory building
shall be set back not less than sixty feet (60') from the front lot line.
   B.   Side Setback; Interior Lot or Parcel:
      1.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back at least twenty feet (20') from the side lot or parcel line.
      2.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings shall be set back at
least twenty feet (20') from the lot or parcel line.
   C.   Side Setback; Corner Lot or Parcel:
      1.   Side Abutting Street: All dwellings and other main and accessory
buildings shall be set back at least fifty feet (50') from the side lot or
parcel line which abuts on a street.
      2.   Interior Side: Same as required for interior lots or parcels.
   D.   Rear Setback; Interior Lot or Parcel:
      1.   Main Buildings: All dwellings or other main buildings shall be set
back at least twenty feet (20') from the rear lot or parcel line.
      2.   Accessory Building: Same as required under side setbacks for
interior lots.
   E.   Rear Setback; Corner Lot:
      1.   Main Buildings: All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set
back at least thirty feet (30') from the rear lot or parcel line, except
         a.   Where a carport or garage is attached to the rear of the
dwelling, the required rear setback for said carport or garage may be reduced
to twenty feet (20') or more as measured from the rear lot or parcel line to
the closest part of the building.
      2.   Accessory Building: All accessory buildings shall be set back at
least thirty feet (30') from the rear lot or parcel line. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-
2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-6: HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS:
The maximum height of any building shall be measured from finished grade at the
front of the building to the highest wall plate.
   A.   The maximum height of a dwelling building shall be as noted below:
      1.   Level lot or parcel: Thirty feet (30').
      2.   Uneven lot or parcel: Where the ground is uneven in height and the
ground slopes downward from the front of the dwelling by more than ten feet
(10') to the back of the dwelling the maximum height shall be thirty-three
(33').
   B.   Minimum height of a dwelling building shall not be less than the height
required by the applicable building code.
   C.   The maximum height of accessory buildings shall be no greater than
forty-five feet (45') or two stories, whichever is higher.
   D.   Additional Height Allowed for Public Buildings: Public buildings and
churches may be erected to any height, provided the building is set back from
required building setback lines a distance of at least one foot (1') for each
additional foot of building height above the maximum height otherwise permitted
in the zone in which the building is located. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd.
Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-7: SIZE OF DWELLING:
The ground floor area of any single-family dwelling shall be at least nine
hundred (900) square feet of living area exclusive of open porches, carports,
garages and similar add ons. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-8: WIDTH OF BUILDINGS:
The total length or total width of any dwelling or church shall be at least
fourteen feet (14'), as measured from outside wall to outside wall, exclusive
of any carport, garage, shed or similar add on. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd.
Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-9: YARD SPACE FOR ONE MAIN BUILDING ONLY:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building, which is needed to comply with the
provisions of this title, shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on an
adjoining lot or parcel be considered as providing the yard or open space on
the lot or parcel whereon a building is to be erected or established. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-10: EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT OR PARCEL:
Only one building which contains a dwelling shall be located and maintained on
a lot or parcel as defined in this title, except bunkhouses and dwellings
within a mobile home park or other large- scale development. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-
10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-11: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE PROHIBITED:
No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking, or other
requirements of this title for a lot, parcel, or building may be sold or leased
apart from such lot, parcel, or building unless other space so complying is
provided. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
2-27-2024)
10-5-12: YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky and unobstructed except:
   A.   Permitted accessory buildings, and
   B.   Ordinary and customary projection of sills, belt courses, cornices and
other ornamental features and unenclosed steps and unwalled stoops, porches and
carports which may project up to three feet (3') into a required yard. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-13: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS PROHIBITED AS LIVING QUARTERS:
Living and sleeping quarters in any building or structure other than the main
residential building and bunkhouse, when not pertaining to code are prohibited
unless the accessory building is a detached accessory dwelling unit. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-14: STORAGE OF JUNK, DEBRIS, OR UNLICENSED INOPERABLE VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No yard or other open space surrounding an existing building, or which
is hereafter provided around any building in any zone, shall be used for the
storage of junk, debris, or inoperable vehicles;
   B.   No land shall be used for such purposes, except as specifically
provided by this title.
   C.   Storage of one restorable vehicle may be permitted in the backyard for
a period of six (6) months, on a case-by-case basis, at the discretion of the
zoning administrator. Restoration work shall comply with applicable noise and
nuisance ordinances. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-15: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Sewer connections shall comply with Title 8 of the city code.
   B.   Where domestic sewage disposal facilities are used which are not
connected to a public sewer, approval of such facilities shall be obtained from
the state health department before a building permit shall be issued,
therefore. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
2-27-2024)
10-5-16: WATER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Where municipal water is available all dwellings shall be connected in
accordance with Title 8 of the city code.
   B.   Where no municipal water is available, approval of such facilities
shall be obtained from the state health department before a building permit or
certificate of occupancy shall be issued, therefore. (Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-17: DRAINAGE:
   A.   The owners and users of ditches shall not divert more water into the
ditch than it's carrying capacity.
   B.   Runoff from new rooftops or lots shall not exceed the carrying capacity
of the natural or previous drainage system.
   C.   Drainage corridors shall be protected in accordance with 10-12-2. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-18: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
No obstruction which will obscure the view of automobile drivers shall be
placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street property
lines and a line connecting them at points of forty-five feet (45') from the
intersection of the street lines. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed
11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-19: EFFECT OF STREET PLAN:
   A.   Wherever a front or side yard is required for a building that abuts on
a proposed street which has not been constructed, but which has been designated
by the planning commission as a future street, the depth of such front or side
yard shall be measured from the planned street lines.
   B.   Before a building permit shall be issued for the building that abuts on
a proposed street, the property owner shall
      1.   Grant an easement for the proposed street to the city.
      2.   Construct the street and underground utilities to the standards
required by the city.
      3.   Post a bond guaranteeing that all street and underground utility
improvements will be completed to standards required by the city. (Ord. 2012-
01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-20: MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS:
Access to all lots and parcels of land having a frontage on a city street shall
be controlled as follows:
   A.   No lot or parcel shall have more than two (2) driveways
   B.   Driveways shall not be closer to each other than twenty feet (20').
   C.   On corner lots or parcels, no driveways shall be closer than twenty
feet (20') to the point of intersection of the front property line with the
side property line which abuts upon a street.
   D.   Where there is no existing curb and gutter or sidewalk, a curb or fence
may be required by the city. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-21: LANDSCAPING REQUIRED:
Front yards and side yards of all dwellings and bunkhouses which front on city
streets must be landscaped. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-22: POLLUTION PREVENTION:
Any use which emits or discharges gases, fumes, dust, glare, noise or other
pollutants into the atmosphere in amounts which exceed the standards as
prescribed by Utah state air conservation board or the board of health, and any
use which emits or discharges liquids or solid material onto the soil or water
in amounts which result in pollutants entering groundwater in amounts exceeding
the standards prescribed by the Utah state water pollution control board or the
board of health, shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-5-23: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
Special provisions shall apply to protect the intent of the zone.
   A.   All buildings used for human occupancy shall be furnished with a water
supply in accordance with
10-5-16 of this title.
   B.   All buildings used for human occupancy shall be constructed in
accordance with the adopted building, plumbing, electrical, fire prevention and
similar codes.
   C.   All buildings and uses shall comply with all applicable supplementary
development standards as set forth in this title. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 6
R-1 RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-6-1: Regulations
10-6-2: Intent
10-6-3: Permitted Uses
10-6-4: Area And Frontage Requirements
10-6-5: Location Requirements
10-6-6: Height Of Buildings
10-6-7: Size Of Dwelling
10-6-8: Width Of Buildings
10-6-9: Yard Space For One Main Building Only
10-6-10: Every Dwelling To Be On A Lot Or Parcel
10-6-11: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space Prohibited
10-6-12: Yards To Be Unobstructed; Exceptions
10-6-13: Accessory Buildings Prohibited As Living Quarters
10-6-14: Storage Of Commercial Or Oversized Vehicles Prohibited
10-6-15: Storage Of Junk, Debris, Or Unlicensed Inoperable Vehicles Prohibited
10-6-16: Sewage Disposal
10-6-17: Water Connections
10-6-18: Drainage
10-6-19: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
10-6-20: Effect Of Street Plan
10-6-21: Motor Vehicle Access
10-6-22: Landscaping Required
10-6-23: Pollution Prevention
10-6-24: Special Provisions
10-6-1: REGULATIONS:
The use, location, height and size of buildings and structures, the use of land
and size of lots, yards, courts and other open spaces and the density of
population are regulated as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-2: INTENT:
The R-1 residential zone has been established for the purpose of providing a
place where single family detached dwellings can be constructed, having
attractively landscaped yards and a favorable environment for family life. Uses
such as multiple-family dwellings, apartment houses and commercial and
industrial uses are not permitted in this zone. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd.
Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted
upon compliance with requirements set forth in this title:
      Accessory buildings.
      Childcare.
      Churches, not including temporary revival tents or buildings.
      Daycare, Nursery, Preschool.
      Foster homes.
      Growing of fruit and gardens for household use.
      Household pets.
      Public agency parks and playgrounds.
      Public, private and parochial schools and grounds.
      Single-family dwellings of conventional construction and manufactured
homes.
      Small homes of conventional construction and manufactured homes.
      Utility lines.
      Walls and hedges.
   B.   The following uses are permitted when in compliance with the specified
sections of Title 10, Zoning Regulations:
      Accessory signs conforming to section
10-2-6.
      Fences in conformance with section
10-2-14.
      Keeping of chickens as allowed in section
10-2-12.
      Long-term rental of dwelling units subject to the provisions of section
10-2-17.
      Solar electricity systems conforming to section
10-2-16.
      Temporary uses are subject to the provisions of section
10-2-10.
   C.   The following uses are permitted as conditional uses (see section
10-2-8).
      Home occupations.
      Machinery sheds used for storage of equipment used in connection with
agricultural activities performed on the premises.
      Growing of field crops, garden produce, and fruit for sale or trade.
      Rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent homes, assisted living homes.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS:
Area and frontage requirements shall be as follows:
 
Main Use               Minimum Lot       Minimum Frontage
                       or Parcel Area    (at setback line)
Single family dwelling 5,445 square feet 60 feet
Small home             3,000 square feet 40 feet
Churches               1 acre            125 feet
Other uses             1 acre            80 feet
 
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-5: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Setback:
      1.   All dwellings and other structures shall be set back according to
the special conditions noted below:
         a.   Where the legal property line of the residential lot or parcel is
located at the back of street curb or back of pavement and there is no curb,
the front setback shall be twenty feet (20') from the front lot or parcel line.
         b.   Where the legal property line of the residential lot or parcel is
located within the street pavement or gravel area, the front setback shall be
forty feet (40') from the front lot or parcel line.
         c.   Where the legal property line of the residential lot or parcel is
located more than ten feet (10') from the street pavement or gravel area, the
front setback shall be ten feet (10') from the front lot or parcel line.
         d.   Where the legal property line of the residential lot or parcel
line is angular to the roadway and there is less than ten feet (10') between
the legal property line and the street pavement or gravel area, then the front
setback shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') from the nearest point of the
street pavement or gravel area.
      2.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings, including detached
accessory dwelling units, shall be set back not less than twelve feet (12') to
the rear of the closest rear wall line of the main building and not less than
twelve feet (12') from any side wall of the main building. Accessory buildings
which are located twelve feet (12') or closer to a main building shall be
considered as part of the main building. Where no main building exists on a lot
or parcel, a detached accessory building shall be set back not less than sixty
feet (60') from the front lot line.
   B.   Side Setback; Interior Lots:
      1.   All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set back at least
eight feet (8') from the side lot or parcel line.
      2.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings, including detached
accessory dwelling units, shall be set back at least five feet (5') from the
lot or parcel line.
   C.   Side Setback; Corner Lot or Parcel:
      1.   Side Abutting a Street: All dwellings and other main and accessory
buildings, including detached accessory dwelling units, shall be set back at
least twenty feet (20') from the side lot or parcel line which abuts on a
street.
      2.   Interior Side: Same as required for interior lots or parcel.
   D.   Rear Setback; Interior Lots or Parcel:
      1.   All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set back at least
thirty feet (30') from the rear lot or parcel line.
      2.   Accessory building: Same as required under side setbacks; interior
lots.
   E.   Rear Setback; Corner Lots or Parcel:
      1.   Single-family dwellings and other main buildings shall be set back
at least thirty feet (30') from the rear lot or parcel line, except that where
a carport or garage is attached to the rear of the dwelling, the required rear
setback for said carport or garage may be reduced to twenty feet (20') or more
as measured from the rear lot or parcel line to the closest part of the
building.
      2.   Small homes shall be set back at least twenty feet (20') from the
rear lot or parcel line, except that where a carport or garage is attached to
the rear of the dwelling, the required rear setback for said carport or garage
may be reduced to ten feet (10') or more as measured from the rear lot or
parcel line to the closest part of the building.
      3.   Accessory Building: All accessory buildings, including detached
accessory dwelling units, shall be set back at least five feet (5') from the
rear lot or parcel line.
   F.   Exception to Front and Side Setback Requirements: The setback from the
street for any dwelling located between two (2) existing dwellings may be the
same as the average for said two (2) existing dwellings, provided the existing
dwellings are on the same side of the street and are located within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of each other. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-
29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-6: HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   The maximum height of a dwelling building shall be measured from
finished grade at the front of the dwelling to the highest wall plate.
   B.   The maximum height of a dwelling building shall be as noted below:
      1.   Level lot or parcel: Twenty-four feet (24').
      2.   Uneven lot or parcel: Where the ground is uneven in height and the
ground slopes downward from the front of the dwelling by more than ten feet
(10') to the back of the dwelling the maximum height shall be twenty feet
(20').
   C.   Minimum height of a dwelling building: No dwelling shall be erected
which has a ceiling height of less than the height required by the applicable
building code.
   D.   The maximum height of accessory buildings, including detached accessory
dwelling units, shall be no greater than twenty feet (20') or two stories,
whichever is higher.
   E.   Additional Height Allowed for Public Buildings: Public buildings and
churches may be erected to any height, provided the building is set back from
required building setback lines a distance of at least one foot (1') for each
additional foot of building height above the maximum height otherwise permitted
in the zone in which the building is located. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd.
Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-7: SIZE OF DWELLING:
All areas shall be exclusive of open porches, carports, garages, sheds, and
similar add-ons. This requirement shall not apply to mobile homes located
within an approved mobile home park.
   A.   The ground floor area of any single-family dwelling shall be at least
nine hundred (900) square feet.
   B.   The minimum ground floor area of any small home shall be six hundred
(600) square feet of living area. The maximum ground floor area of any small
home shall be eight hundred and ninety-nine (899) square feet of living area.
   C.   The minimum ground floor area of any detached accessory dwelling unit
shall be two hundred (200) square feet of living area. The maximum ground floor
area of any detached accessory dwelling unit shall be eight hundred and ninety-
nine (899) square feet of living area. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-8: WIDTH OF BUILDINGS:
The total length or total width of any single-family dwelling or church shall
be at least twenty feet (20'), as measured from outside wall to outside wall,
exclusive of any carport, garage, shed or similar add on. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-
2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-9: YARD SPACE FOR ONE MAIN BUILDING ONLY:
   A.   No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or
which is hereafter provided around any building, that is needed to comply with
the provisions of this title, shall be considered as providing a yard or open
space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space
on an adjoining lot or parcel be considered as providing the yard or open space
on the lot or parcel whereon a building is to be erected or established.
   B.   No required yard or other open space around an existing main building,
or which is hereafter provided around any building that is needed to comply
with provisions of this title, shall be used for parking or storage of operable
vehicles unless in compliance with 10-2-1. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-10: EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT OR PARCEL:
Only one building which contains a dwelling shall be located and maintained on
a lot or parcel, except dwellings within a mobile home park, or other large-
scale development. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord.
2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-11: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE PROHIBITED:
No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking, or other
requirements of this title for a lot, parcel, or building may be sold or leased
apart from such lot, parcel, or building unless other space so complying is
provided. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
2-27-2024)
10-6-12: YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky and unobstructed except:
   A.   Permitted accessory buildings, and
   B.   Ordinary and customary projection of sills, belt courses, cornices and
other ornamental features and unenclosed steps and unwalled stoops, porches and
carports which may project up to three feet (3') into a required yard. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-13: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS PROHIBITED AS LIVING QUARTERS:
Living and sleeping quarters in any building or structure other than the main
residential building are prohibited unless the accessory building is a detached
accessory dwelling unit. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-14: STORAGE OF COMMERCIAL OR OVERSIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   The storage and/or continuous parking of trucks, buses, or a
combination of vehicles exceeding thirty-five feet (35') in length or having a
rated capacity of one ton or greater, and construction equipment such as
bulldozers, graders, compressors, etc., shall not be permitted; provided, that
construction equipment may be stored on a lot or parcel during construction of
a building thereon for less than one year.
   B.   Trucks and equipment parked in residential areas for more than three
(3) days in any one month are not allowed.
   C.   Storage of recreational vehicles shall comply with
10-2-7 of this title. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-15: STORAGE OF JUNK, DEBRIS, OR UNLICENSED INOPERABLE VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No yard or other open space surrounding an existing building, or which
is hereafter provided around any building in any zone, shall be used for the
storage of junk, debris, or inoperable vehicles;
   B.   No land shall be used for such purposes, except as specifically
provided by this title.
   C.   Storage of one restorable vehicle may be permitted in the backyard for
a period of six (6) months, on a case-by-case basis, at the discretion of the
zoning administrator. Restoration work shall comply with applicable noise and
nuisance ordinances. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-16: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Sewer connections shall comply with section
8-4-2.
   B.   Where domestic sewage disposal facilities are used which are not
connected to a public sewer, approval of such facilities shall be obtained from
the state health department before a building permit shall be issued,
therefore. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
2-27-2024)
10-6-17: WATER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Where municipal water is available all single-family dwellings shall be
connected in accordance with
8-1-2.
   B.   Where a detached accessory dwelling unit is present it shall be
provided with municipal water by connection to the main dwelling on the same
lot or parcel.
   C.   Where no municipal water is available, approval of such facilities
shall be obtained from the state health department before a building permit or
certificate of occupancy shall be issued, therefore. (Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-18: DRAINAGE:
   A.   The owners and users of ditches shall not divert more water into the
ditch than its carrying capacity.
   B.   Runoff from new rooftops or lots shall not exceed the carrying capacity
of the natural or previous drainage system.
   C.   Drainage corridors shall be protected in accordance with 10-12-2. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-19: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
No obstruction which will obscure the view of automobile drivers shall be
placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street property
lines and a line connecting them at points of forty-five feet (45') from the
intersection of the street lines. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed
11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-20: EFFECT OF STREET PLAN:
Wherever a front or side yard is required for a building that abuts on a
proposed street which has not been constructed, but which has been designated
by the planning commission as a future street, the depth of such front or side
yard shall be measured from the planned street lines. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-21: MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS:
Access to all lots and parcels of land having a frontage on a city street shall
be controlled as follows:
   A.   No lot or parcel shall have more than two (2) driveways.
   B.   Driveways shall not be closer to each other than twenty feet (20').
   C.   On corner lots or parcels, no driveways shall be closer than twenty
feet (20') to the point of intersection of the front property line with the
side property line which abuts upon a street.
   D.   Where there is no existing curb and gutter or sidewalk, a curb or fence
may be required by the city. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-22: LANDSCAPING REQUIRED:
Front yards and side yards of all dwellings which front on city streets must be
landscaped. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-
02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-23: POLLUTION PREVENTION:
Any use which emits or discharges gases, fumes, dust, glare, noise or other
pollutants into the atmosphere in amounts which exceed the standards as
prescribed by Utah state air conservation board or the board of health, and any
use which emits or discharges liquids or solid material onto the soil or water
in amounts which result in pollutants entering groundwater in amounts exceeding
the standards prescribed by the Utah state water pollution control board or the
board of health, shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-6-24: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
Special provisions shall apply in order to protect the intent of the zone.
   A.   All buildings used for human occupancy shall be furnished with a water
supply in accordance with
10-6-17 of this title.
   B.   All buildings used for human occupancy shall be constructed in
accordance with the adopted building, plumbing, electrical, fire prevention and
similar codes.
   C.   All buildings and uses shall comply with all applicable supplementary
development standards as set forth in this title. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 7
R-2 RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-7-1: Regulations
10-7-2: Intent
10-7-3: Permitted Uses
10-7-4: Area And Frontage Requirements
10-7-5: Location Requirements
10-7-6: Height Of Buildings
10-7-7: Size Of Dwelling
10-7-8: Yard Space For One Main Building Only
10-7-9: Every Dwelling To Be On A Lot Or Parcel
10-7-10: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space Prohibited
10-7-11: Yards To Be Unobstructed; Exceptions
10-7-12: Accessory Buildings Prohibited As Living Quarters
10-7-13: Storage Of Commercial Or Oversized Vehicles Prohibited
10-7-14: Storage Of Junk, Debris, Or Unlicensed Inoperable Vehicles Prohibited
10-7-15: Sewage Disposal
10-7-16: Water Connection
10-7-17: Drainage
10-7-18: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
10-7-19: Effect Of Street Plan
10-7-20: Motor Vehicle Access
10-7-21: Landscaping Required
10-7-22: Pollution Prevention
10-7-23: Special Provisions
10-7-1: REGULATIONS:
The use, location, height and size of buildings and structures, the use of land
and size of lots, yards, courts and other open spaces and the density of
population are regulated as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-2: INTENT:
The R-2 zone has been established for the purpose of providing a place where
single-, two- and multiple-family dwellings and small homes can be constructed.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted
upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this title:
      Accessory Buildings.
      All uses permitted in the R-1 residential zone, section
10-6-3 of this title. Single-family dwellings of conventional construction and
manufactured homes.
      Multi-family dwellings, townhouses and condominiums.
      Small homes and tiny homes of conventional construction and manufactured
homes.
      Boarding house, lodging house, bed and breakfast, rooming house.
      Childcare.
      Churches, not including temporary revival tents or buildings.
      Daycare, Nursery, Preschool.
      Foster care homes.
      Household pets.
      Mobile homes on foundations with tie down.
      Public agency parks and playgrounds.
      Utility lines and buildings.
      Walls and hedges.
   B.   The following uses are permitted when in conformance with the specified
sections of Title 10, Zoning Regulations:
      Accessory signs conforming to section
10-2-6.
      Fences in conformance with section
10-2-14.
      Keeping chickens in conformance with section
10-2-12.
      Long-term rental of a dwelling unit as permitted in
10-2-17.
      Short-term rental units as permitted in
10-2-17.
      Solar electricity systems in conformance with
10-2-16.
      Temporary uses are subject to the provisions of section
10-2-10.
   C.   The following uses are permitted as conditional uses (see section
10-2-8).
      Home occupations.
      Machinery sheds used for storage of equipment used in connection with
agricultural activities performed on the premises.
      Growing of field crops, garden produce, and fruit for sale or trade.
      Rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent homes, assisted living homes.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-4: AREA AND FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS:
Area and frontage requirements shall be as follows:
Main Use Minimum Lot    Minimum Frontage
         or Parcel Area (At Setback Line)
Main Use                 Minimum Lot              Minimum Frontage
                         or Parcel Area           (At Setback Line)
Single-family dwelling   5,445 square feet        60 feet
Small home               3,000 square feet        40 feet
Tiny home                2,756 square feet        26 feet
Two-family dwelling      7,000 square feet        85 feet
                         10,000 square feet for   85 feet for first 2 units
Multiple-family dwelling first 2 units plus 2,500 plus 7.5 feet width for each
                         square feet for each     additional unit
                         additional unit
Churches                 1 acre                   125 feet
Other uses               1 acre                   80 feet
 
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-5: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front Setback:
      1.   All single-family dwellings, small homes, tiny homes, and two-family
dwellings shall be set back according to the special conditions noted below:
         a.   Where the legal property line of the residential lot or parcel is
located at the back of street curb or back of pavement and there is no curb,
the front setback shall be twenty feet (20') from the front lot or parcel line.
         b.   Where the legal property line of the residential lot or parcel is
located within the street pavement or gravel area, the front setback shall be
forty feet (40') from the front lot or parcel line.
         c.   Where the legal property line of the residential lot or parcel is
located more than ten feet (10') from the street pavement or gravel area, the
front setback shall be ten feet (10') from the front lot or parcel line.
         d.   Where the legal property line of the residential lot or parcel
line is angular to the roadway and there is less than ten feet (10') between
the legal property line and the street pavement or gravel area, then the front
setback shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') from the nearest point of the
street pavement or gravel area.
      2.   All multi-family dwellings shall be set back forty feet (40') from
the front lot or parcel line.
      3.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings including detached
accessory dwelling units shall be set back not less than twelve feet (12') to
the rear of the closest rear wall line of the main building and not less than
twelve feet (12') from any side wall of the main building. Accessory buildings
which are located twelve feet (12') or closer to a main building shall be
considered as part of the main building. Where no main building exists on a lot
or parcel, a detached accessory building shall be set back not less than sixty
feet (60') from the front lot line.
   B.   Side Setback; Interior Lot or Parcel:
      1.   All dwellings and other main buildings shall be set back at least
eight feet (8') from the side lot or parcel line.
      2.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings including detached
accessory dwelling units shall be set back at least five feet (5') from the lot
or parcel line, except that no minimum side setback shall be required when all
the following conditions are met:
         a.   The accessory building is located more than five feet (5') from
any existing dwelling on the same or an adjacent lot or parcel;
         b.   The accessory building contains no openings on the side
contiguous to the lot or parcel line;
         c.   No drainage from the roof will be discharged onto an adjacent lot
or parcel.
      3.   All accessory buildings when adjoining an R-2 zone shall be set back
twenty feet (20').
   C.   Side Setback; Corner Lot or Parcel:
      1.   Side Abutting Street: All dwellings and other main and accessory
buildings, including detached accessory dwelling units, shall be set back at
least twenty feet (20') from the side lot or parcel line which abuts on a
street.
      2.   Interior Side: Same as required for interior lots.
   D.   Rear Setback; Interior Lot or Parcel:
      1.   Single-family, two-family and multi-family dwellings or other main
buildings shall be set back at least thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line.
      2.   Small homes shall be set back at least twenty (20') feet from the
rear lot line.
      3.   Tiny homes shall be set back at least fifteen (15') feet from the
rear lot line.
      4.   Accessory Building: Same as required under subsection B, "Side
Setback; Interior Lots," of this section.
      5.   All accessory buildings when adjoining an R-2 zone shall be set back
twenty feet (20').
   E.   Rear Setback; Corner Lot or Parcel:
      1.   Single-family, two-family and multi-family dwellings and other main
buildings shall be set back at least thirty feet (30') from the rear lot or
parcel line, except that where a carport or garage is attached to the rear of
the dwelling, the required rear setback for said carport or garage may be
reduced to twenty feet (20') or more as measured from the rear lot or parcel
line to the closest part of the building.
      2.   Small homes shall be set back at least twenty (20') feet from the
rear lot or parcel line, except where a carport or garage is attached to the
rear of the dwelling, the required rear setback for said carport or garage may
be reduced to ten (10') feet or more as measured from the rear lot or parcel
line to the closest part of the building.
      3.   Tiny homes shall be set back at least fifteen (15') feet from the
rear lot or parcel line, except where a carport or garage is attached to the
rear of the dwelling, the required rear setback for said carport or garage may
be reduced to ten (10') feet or more as measured from the rear lot or parcel
line to the closest part of the building.
      4.   Accessory Building: All accessory buildings including detached
accessory dwelling units, shall be set back at least five feet (5') from the
rear lot or parcel line, except that no minimum rear setback shall be required
when all the following conditions are met:
         a.   The accessory building is located more than twelve feet (12')
from any existing dwelling on the same or an adjacent lot or parcel;
         b.   The accessory building contains no openings on the side
contiguous to the lot or parcel line;
         c.   No drainage from the roof will be discharged onto an adjacent lot
or parcel;
         d.   The accessory building will be set back at least fifty feet (50')
from the side lot or parcel line abutting the street.
   F.   Exception to Front And Side Setback Requirements: The setback from the
street for any dwelling located between two (2) existing dwellings may be the
same as the average for said two (2) existing dwellings, provided the existing
dwellings are on the same side of the street and are located within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of each other. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-
29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-6: HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   The maximum height of a building shall be measured from finished grade
at the front of the dwelling to the highest wall plate.
   B.   The maximum height of a single-family dwelling, small home, and two-
family dwelling shall be as noted below:
      1.   Level lot or parcel: Twenty-four feet (24').
      2.   Uneven lot or parcel: Where the ground is uneven in height and the
ground slopes downward from the front of the dwelling by more than ten feet
(10') to the back of the dwelling the maximum height shall be twenty feet
(20').
   C.   The maximum height of a tiny home shall be eighteen feet (18').
   D.   Minimum height of any dwelling building: No dwelling shall be erected
which has a ceiling height of less than the heigh required by the applicable
building code.
   E.   The maximum height of accessory buildings including detached accessory
dwelling units, shall be no greater than twenty feet (20') or two stories,
whichever is the higher.
   F.   Additional Height Allowed for Public Buildings: Public buildings and
churches may be erected to any height, provided the building is set back from
required building setback lines a distance of at least one foot (1') for each
additional foot of building height above the maximum height otherwise permitted
in the zone in which the building is located. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd.
Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-7: SIZE OF DWELLING:
All areas shall be exclusive of open porches, carports, garages, sheds and
similar add-ons. This requirement shall not apply to mobile homes located
within an approved mobile home park.
   A.   The ground floor area of a single-family dwelling shall be not less
than nine hundred (900) square feet.
   B.   The minimum ground floor area of any small home shall be six hundred
(600) square feet of living area. The maximum ground floor area of any small
home shall be eight hundred and ninety-nine (899) square feet of living area.
   C.   The minimum ground floor area of any tiny home shall be two hundred
(200) square feet of living area. The maximum ground floor area of any tiny
home shall be five hundred and ninety-nine (599) square feet of living area.
   D.   The minimum ground floor area of any two-family dwelling shall be of
one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of living area.
   E.   The minimum ground floor area of any multiple-family dwelling shall be
one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of living area for the first two
(2) units, plus six hundred (600) square feet of living area for each unit over
two (2). (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
2-27-2024)
10-7-8: YARD SPACE FOR ONE MAIN BUILDING ONLY:
   A.   No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or
which is hereafter provided around any building, which is needed to comply with
the provisions of this title, shall be considered as providing a yard or open
space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space
on an adjoining lot or parcel be considered as providing the yard or open space
on the lot or parcel whereon a building is to be erected or established.
   B.   No required yard or other open space around an existing main building,
or which is hereinafter provided around any building, that is needed to comply
with provisions of this title, shall be used for parking or storage or operable
vehicles unless in compliance with 10-2-5. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-9: EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT OR PARCEL:
Only one building which contains a dwelling shall be located and maintained on
a lot or parcel as defined in this title, except dwellings within a mobile home
park, or other large- scale development. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-10: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE PROHIBITED:
No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this title for a lot or parcel or building may be sold or
leased apart from such lot or building unless other space so complying is
provided. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
2-27-2024)
10-7-11: YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Permitted accessory buildings;
   B.   Ordinary and customary projection of sills, belt courses, cornices and
other ornamental features and unenclosed steps and unwalled stoops, porches and
carports which may project up to three feet (3') into a required yard;
   C.   No projection into a required court which is provided in connection
with a court apartment shall be constructed except for customary sills, belt
courses and cornices which may extend into a court not more than sixteen inches
(16"). (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-
27-2024)
10-7-12: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS PROHIBITED AS LIVING QUARTERS:
Living and sleeping quarters in any building or structure other than the main
residential building are prohibited unless the accessory building is a detached
accessory dwelling unit. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-13: STORAGE OF COMMERCIAL OR OVERSIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   The storage and/or continuous parking of trucks, buses, or a
combination of vehicles exceeding thirty-five feet (35') in length or having a
rated capacity of one ton or greater, and construction equipment such as
bulldozers, graders, compressors, etc., shall not be permitted; provided, that
construction equipment may be stored on a lot or parcel during construction of
a building thereon for less than one year.
   B.   Trucks and equipment parked in residential areas for more than three
(3) days in any one month are not allowed.
   C.   Storage of recreational vehicles must conform with section
10-2-7 of this title. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-14: STORAGE OF JUNK, DEBRIS, OR UNLICENSED INOPERABLE VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No yard or other open space surrounding an existing building, or which
is hereafter provided around any building in any zone, shall be used for the
storage of junk, debris or inoperable vehicles;
   B.   No land shall be used for such purposes, except as specifically
provided by this title.
   C.   Storage of one restorable vehicle may be permitted in the backyard for
a period of six (6) months, on a case by case basis, at the discretion of the
zoning administrator. Restoration work shall comply with applicable noise and
nuisance ordinances. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-15: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Sewer connections shall comply with
8-4-2.
   B.   Where domestic sewage disposal facilities are used which are not
connected to a public sewer, approval of such facilities shall be obtained from
the state health department before a building permit shall be issued therefore.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-16: WATER CONNECTION:
   A.   Where municipal water is available, all users in this zone shall be
connected.
   B.   Where a detached accessory dwelling unit is present it shall be
provided with municipal water by connection to the main dwelling on the same
lot or parcel.
   C.   Where no municipal water is available, approval of such facilities
shall be obtained from the state health department before a building permit or
certificate of occupancy shall be issued, therefore. (Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-17: DRAINAGE:
   A.   The owners and users of ditches shall not divert more water into the
ditch than its carrying capacity.
   B.   Runoff from new rooftops or lots shall not exceed the carrying capacity
of the natural or previous drainage system.
   C.   Drainage corridors shall be protected in accordance with
10-12-2. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02,
2-27-2024)
10-7-18: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
No obstruction which will obscure the view of automobile drivers shall be
placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street property
lines and a line connecting them at points of forty feet (40') from the
intersection of the street lines. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed
11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-19: EFFECT OF STREET PLAN:
Wherever a front or side yard is required for a building that abuts on a
proposed street which has not been constructed, but which has been designated
by the planning commission as a future street, the depth of such front or side
yard shall be measured from the planned street lines. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-20: MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS:
Access to all lots and parcels of land having a frontage on a city street shall
be controlled as follows:
   A.   No lot or parcel shall have more than two (2) driveways.
   B.   Driveways shall be not closer to each other than twenty feet (20').
   C.   On corner lots or parcels, no driveways shall be closer than twenty
feet (20') to the point of intersection of the front property line with the
side property line which abuts upon a street.
   D.   Where there is no existing curb and gutter or sidewalk, a curb or fence
may be required by the city. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-21: LANDSCAPING REQUIRED:
Front yards and side yards of all dwellings which front on city streets must be
landscaped. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-
02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-22: POLLUTION PREVENTION:
Any use which emits or discharges gases, fumes, dust, glare, noise or other
pollutants into the atmosphere in amounts which exceed the standards as
prescribed by Utah state air conservation board or the board of health, and any
use which emits or discharges liquids or solid material onto the soil or water
in amounts which result in pollutants entering groundwater in amounts exceeding
the standards prescribed by the Utah state water pollution control board or the
board of health, shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
10-7-23: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
Special provisions shall apply in order to protect the intent of the zone's
essential characteristics.
   A.   All buildings used for human occupancy shall be furnished with a water
supply in accordance with
10-6-19 of this title.
   B.   All buildings used for human occupancy shall be constructed in
accordance with the adopted building, plumbing, electrical, fire prevention and
similar codes.
   C.   All buildings and uses shall comply with all applicable supplementary
development standards as set forth in this title. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 8
C-1 COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-8-1: Regulations
10-8-2: Intent
10-8-3: Permitted Uses
10-8-4: Area, Width And Location Requirements
10-8-5: Location Of Gasoline Pumps
10-8-6: Motor Vehicle Access
10-8-7: Pollution Prevention
10-8-8: Sewage Disposal
10-8-9: Water Connection
10-8-10: Drainage
10-8-11: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
10-8-12: Special Provisions
10-8-1: REGULATIONS:
The use, location, height and size of buildings and structures, the use of land
and size of lots, yards, courts and other open spaces and the density of
population are regulated as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-8-2: INTENT:
The intent of the C-1 commercial zone is to provide a centralized place where
retail and service uses can be constructed and maintained which will serve the
needs of the citizens of the city and surrounding areas. It is the further
intent in establishing this zone to maintain the central business district as
the "heart of the city" and, to these ends, to promote its development in step
with the increase in population within the trading area. Uses which tend to
create business dead spots, cause undue scattering of business, and generally
tend to thwart the use of the land for its primary purpose have been excluded
from this zone. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord.
passed - - )
10-8-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The following buildings, structures, and uses of land shall be
permitted upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this title:
      Accessory buildings and structures such as garages, carports, equipment
storage buildings, and supply storage buildings which are customarily used in
conjunction with and incidental to a principal use or structure permitted in
this zone.
      All R-1 uses that conform to section
10-6-3 of this title.
      All R-2 uses that conform to section
10-7-3 of this title.
      Automobile and truck repair establishments, provided all repair
activities will be conducted within an enclosed structure and that there will
be no outside storage of parts or nonoperative vehicles.
      Automobile, motorcycle, ATV, and snowmobile sales and rental structures
and lots (for both new and used units). Also, the related repair facilities
when such facilities are included as an integral part of the sales structure
and that there will be no outside storage of parts or nonoperative vehicles.
      Automotive service establishments, including gasoline stations, car
washes, parking lots and storage garages, and minor automotive repair
establishments.
      Cabinet, taxidermy, and welding and metalsmithing shops.
      Commercial Plug-in Electric Vehicle Charging Stations that conform to
10-2-18 of this title.
      Convenience goods stores (minimarkets) for the sale of food and variety
products.
      Establishments for the sale of hardware, lumber, plumbing and heating
equipment and similar building products. All storage activities shall be within
a building or within an enclosure surrounded by a fence not less than six feet
(6') in height.
      General retail stores and shops providing goods and services for sale at
retail in the customary manner.
      Hotels and motels.
      Laundries and dry cleaning establishments, and laundromats.
      Live-work units.
      Office buildings, medical clinics, banks, insurance, and financial
services.
      Personal service establishments, such as barber and beauty shops,
reception centers, and similar establishments.
      Public parks and buildings, not including storage yards or repair shops.
      Recreational enterprises including bowling alleys, recreation centers,
motion picture theaters (indoor only), athletic clubs, private clubs,
sororities, and fraternal lodges. Restaurants, food drive-ins, bars, taverns,
pubs.
      Shopping centers, supermarkets, clothing stores.
      Veterinary clinics for the treatment of household pets and the enclosed
temporary boarding of same while receiving care.
   B.   The following uses are permitted when in compliance with the specified
sections of Title 10, Zoning Regulations:
      All signs shall conform with section
10-2-6 of this title.
      Conditional uses shall conform with section
10-2-8 of this title.
      Temporary uses shall conform with section
10-2-9 of this title.
      Portable Storage Containers shall conform with section
10-2-10 of this title.
      Diagonal parking shall conform with section
10-2-12 of this title.
      Fences shall conform with section
10-2-14 of this title.
      Recreational vehicle (RV) parks that conform to Title 10 Chapter 15 of
city code. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2013-5, 4-23-2013, eff. 4-23-
2013; Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-8-4: AREA, WIDTH AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   There shall be no area, width and location requirements for commercial
buildings and structures constructed, provided
      1.   All buildings and structures conform with the building code adopted
by the city; and
      2.   An area sufficient to accommodate parking, loading, unloading, and
vehicular access shall be provided and maintained.
   B.   No space needed to meet the parking or other requirements of this title
may be sold or leased apart from such lot or parcel or building unless other
space is provided to comply with section
10-8-4A. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - -
)
10-8-5: LOCATION OF GASOLINE PUMPS:
   A.   Gasoline pump islands shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20')
from any property line.
   B.   Lots from which gasoline is dispensed to customers at retail shall be
not less than seventy five by one hundred feet (75 x 100') in size.
   C.   Canopies over pump islands may extend to within five feet (5') of the
property lines. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord.
passed- -)
10-8-6: MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS:
   Access to all lots and parcels of land having a frontage on a city street
shall be controlled as follows:
   A.   Access shall be by not more than two (2) driveways from any one street.
   B.   Driveways shall be not closer to each other than twenty feet (20').
   C.   On corner lots, no driveways shall be less than fifteen feet (15') to
the point of intersection of the front property line with the side property
line which abuts upon a street.
   D.   Where there is no existing curb and gutter or sidewalk, a curb or fence
may be required by the city. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-8-7: POLLUTION PREVENTION:
Any use which emits or discharges gases, fumes, dust, glare, noise or other
pollutants into the atmosphere in amounts which exceed the standards as
prescribed by Utah state air conservation board or the board of health, and any
use which emits or discharges liquids or solid material onto the soil or water
in amounts which result in pollutants entering groundwater in amounts exceeding
the standards prescribed by the Utah state water pollution control board or the
board of health, shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-8-8: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Sewer connections shall comply with Title
8-4-2 of city code.
   B.   Where domestic sewage disposal facilities are used which are not
connected to a public sewer, approval of such facilities shall be obtained from
the state health department before a building permit shall be issued therefor.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-8-9: WATER CONNECTION:
All users shall be connected to the municipal water supply. (Ord. passed 11-29-
2022; amd. Ord. passed - - )
10-8-10: DRAINAGE:
   A.   The owners and users of ditches shall not divert more water into the
ditch than it's carrying capacity.
   B.   Runoff from new rooftops or lots shall not exceed the carrying capacity
of the natural or previous drainage system. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
   C.   Drainage corridors shall be protected in accordance with 10-12-2. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-8-11: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
No obstruction which will obscure the view of automobile drivers shall be
placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street property
lines and a line connecting them at points of forty feet (40') from the
intersection of the street lines. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed
11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-8-12: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All material, merchandise and equipment (except vehicles in running
order) shall be stored within an enclosed building or surrounded by a fence not
less than six feet (6') in height.
   B.   All display, sale and repair activities shall be conducted within a
fully enclosed building, except those activities that are customarily and
appropriately conducted in the open, including, but not limited to, automobile
sales lots and automobile service stations.
   C.   Temporary sales of Christmas trees and nursery stock shall be permitted
outside a building unless otherwise prohibited under the terms of this title.
   D.   No dust, odor, smoke, vibration or intermittent light, glare or noise
shall be emitted which is discernible beyond the premises except for normal
traffic movements.
   E.   All off street parking shall be hard surfaced. See section
10-2-5, "Off Street Parking Requirements", of this title.
   F.   All buildings located adjacent to a major street shall have at least
one entranceway facing onto said street.
   G.   All buildings and uses shall comply with all applicable supplementary
development standards as set forth in this title.
   H.   No accessory structures shall be used as living quarters. (Ord. 2012-
01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2013-5, 4-23-2013, eff. 4-23-2013; Ord. passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 9
C-2 LIGHT COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-9-1: Regulations
10-9-2: Intent
10-9-3: Permitted Uses
10-9-4: Area, Width And Location Requirements
10-9-5: Location Of Gasoline Pumps
10-9-6: Motor Vehicle Access
10-9-7:Pollution Prevention
10-9-8: Sewage Disposal
10-9-9: Water Connection
10-9-10: Drainage
10-9-11: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
10-9-12: Special Provisions
10-9-1: REGULATIONS:
The use, location, height and size of buildings and structures, the use of land
and size of lots, yards, courts and other open spaces and the density of
population are regulated as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-9-2: INTENT:
The intent of the C-2 light commercial zone is to provide a place where small-
scale fabrication, repair services, offices, and limited commercial uses can be
constructed and maintained which will serve the needs of the citizens of the
city and surrounding areas. It is the further intent in establishing this zone
to maintain a buffer zone between C-1 and R-1 and R-2 zones to promote its
development in step with the increase in population within the trading area.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-9-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted
upon compliance with the requirements set forth in this title:
      Accessory uses and structures provided they are incidental to and do not
substantially alter the character of the permitted principal use or structure.
      All R-1 uses that conform to section
10-6-3 of this title.
      All R-2 uses that conform to section
10-7-3 of this title.
      Automobile and truck repair establishments, provided all repair
activities will be conducted within an enclosed structure and any outside
storage of parts or nonoperative vehicles will be surrounded by a view-
obscuring fence.
      Automobile, motorcycle, ATV, and snowmobile sales and rental structures
and lots (for both new and used units). Also, the related repair facilities
when such facilities are included as an integral part of the sales structure
and that any outside storage of parts or nonoperative vehicles will be
surrounded by a view-obscuring fence.
      Automotive service establishments, including gasoline stations, car
washes, parking lots and storage garages.
      Communications towers.
      Commercial Plug-in Electric Vehicle Charging Stations that conform to
10-2-18 of this title. Convenience goods stores (minimarkets) for the sale of
food and variety products.
      Daycare, nursery, preschool.
      Establishments for the sale of hardware, lumber, plumbing and heating
equipment and similar building products. All storage activities shall be within
a building or within an enclosure surrounded by a view-obscuring fence.
      Funeral homes.
      General retail stores and shops providing goods and services for sale at
retail in the customary manner.
      Hospitals.
      Hotels and motels.
      Laundries and dry cleaning establishments, and laundromats.
      Live-work units.
      Office buildings, medical clinics, banks, insurance, and financial
services.
      Personal service establishments, such as barber and beauty shops,
reception centers and similar establishments.
      Public buildings and grounds, including shops and storage.
      Public parks and buildings.
      Rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent homes, assisted living homes.
      Restaurants, food drive-ins, bars, taverns, pubs.
      Shopping centers, supermarkets, clothing stores.
      Veterinary clinics for the treatment of household pets and the enclosed
temporary boarding of same while receiving care.
   B.   The following uses are permitted when in compliance with the specified
sections of Title 10, Zoning Regulations:
      All signs shall conform with section
10-2-6 of this title.
      Conditional uses shall conform with section
10-2-8 of this title.
      Temporary uses shall conform with section
10-2-9 of this title.
      Portable Storage Containers shall conform with section
10-2-10 of this title
      Diagonal parking shall conform with section
10-2-12 of this title.
      Fences shall conform with section
10-2-14 of this title. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
Ord. passed - - )
10-9-4: AREA, WIDTH AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   There shall be no area, width and location requirements for commercial
buildings and structures, provided
      1.   All buildings and structures conform with the building code adopted
by the city; and
      2.   An area sufficient to accommodate parking, loading, unloading, and
vehicular access shall be provided and maintained.
   B.   No space needed to meet the parking or other requirements of this title
may be sold or leased apart from such lot or parcel or building unless other
space so complying is provided. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-
29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-9-5: LOCATION OF GASOLINE PUMPS:
   A.   Gasoline pump islands shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20')
from any property line.
   B.   Lots from which gasoline is dispensed to customers at retail shall be
not less than seventy five by one hundred feet (75 x 100') in size.
   C.   Canopies over pump islands may extend to within five feet (5') of the
property lines. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord.
passed - - )
10-9-6: MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS:
Access to all lots and parcels of land having a frontage on a city street shall
be controlled as follows:
   A.   Access shall be by not more than two (2) driveways from any one street.
   B.   Driveways shall be not closer to each other than twenty feet (20').
   C.   On corner lots, no driveways shall be less than fifteen feet (15') to
the point of intersection of the front property line with the side property
line which abuts upon a street.
   D.   Where there is no existing curb and gutter or sidewalk, a curb or fence
may be required by the city. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-9-7: POLLUTION PREVENTION:
Any use which emits or discharges gases, fumes, dust, glare, noise or other
pollutants into the atmosphere in amounts which exceed the standards as
prescribed by Utah state air conservation board or the board of health, and any
use which emits or discharges liquids or solid material onto the soil or water
in amounts which result in pollutants entering groundwater in amounts exceeding
the standards prescribed by the Utah state water pollution control board or the
board of health, shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-9-8: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Sewer connections shall comply with Title
8-4-2 of city code.
   B.   Where domestic sewage disposal facilities are used which are not
connected to a public sewer, approval of such facilities shall be obtained from
the state health department before a building permit shall be issued therefor.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-9-9: WATER CONNECTION:
All users shall be connected to the municipal water supply. (Ord. passed 11-29-
2022)
10-9-10: DRAINAGE:
   A.   The owners and users of ditches shall not divert more water into the
ditch than it's carrying capacity.
   B.   Runoff from new rooftops or lots shall not exceed the carrying capacity
of the natural or previous drainage system.
   C.   Drainage corridors shall be protected in accordance with
10-12-2. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - -
)
10-9-11:CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
No obstruction which will obscure the view of automobile drivers shall be
placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street property
lines and a line connecting them at points of forty feet (40') from the
intersection of the street lines. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed
11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-9-12: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All material, merchandise and equipment (except vehicles in running
order) shall be stored within an enclosed building or surrounded by a fence not
less than six feet (6') in height.
   B.   All display, sale and repair activities shall be conducted within a
fully enclosed building, except those activities that are customarily and
appropriately conducted in the open, including, but not limited to, automobile
sales lots and automobile service stations.
   C.   Temporary sales of Christmas trees and nursery stock shall be permitted
outside a building unless otherwise prohibited under the terms of this title.
   D.   No dust, odor, smoke, vibration or intermittent light, glare or noise
shall be emitted which is discernible beyond the premises except for normal
traffic movements.
   E.   All off street parking shall be hard surfaced. See section
10-2-5, "Off Street Parking Requirements", of this title.
   F.   All buildings located adjacent to a major street shall have at least
one entranceway facing onto said street.
   G.   All buildings and uses shall comply with all applicable supplementary
development standards as set forth in this title.
   H.   No accessory structures shall be used for living quarters. (Ord. 2012-
01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 10
I-1 INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-10-1: Regulations
10-10-2: Intent
10-10-3: Permitted Uses
10-10-4: Area, Frontage, Yard And Height Regulations
10-10-5: Yard Space For One Building Only
10-10-6: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space Prohibited
10-10-7: Accessory Buildings Prohibited As Living Quarters
10-10-8: Sewage Disposal
10-10-9: Water Connections
10-10-10: Drainage
10-10-11: Motor Vehicle Access
10-10-12: Pollution Prevention
10-10-13: Special Provisions
10-10-1: REGULATIONS:
The use, location, height and size of buildings and structures, the use of land
and size of lots, yards, courts and other open spaces and the density of
population are regulated as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-10-2: INTENT:
The intent in establishing the I-1 industrial zone is to provide a place for
the operation of industry in a location where impacts on residential areas are
minimized. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed -
- )
10-10-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The following uses shall be authorized by a conditional use permit
issued by the city:
      Accessory buildings shall be permitted in this zone and may include, but
are not limited to, equipment storage buildings, and supply storage buildings
which are customarily used in conjunction with and incidental to a principal
use or structure permitted in this zone.
      Automobile and truck repair establishments, and auto body repair shops.
      Automobile, motorcycle, ATV, snowmobile sales and rental structures and
lots (for both new and used units). Also, the related repair facilities when
such facilities are included as an integral part of the sales structure.
      Automotive service establishments, including gasoline stations, bulk
petroleum storage, car washes, parking lots and storage garages.
      Buildings exceeding thirty feet (30') in height.
      Buildings over twenty-thousand square feet (20,000 sq ft) on the ground
floor.
      Care and keeping of livestock and fowl and the barns, corrals, pens and
sheds for the care and keeping of permitted animals and fowl.
      Commercial Plug-in Electric Vehicle Charging Stations that conform to
10-2-18 of this title.
      Communication towers.
      Concrete mixing, gravel crushing, stonecutting, and rock, sand and gravel
distribution.
      Convenience goods stores (minimarkets) for the sale of food and variety
products, provided such stores are part of gasoline stations.
      Diagonal parking shall conform with section
10-2-12 of this title.
      Establishments for the sale of hardware, lumber, plumbing and heating
equipment and similar building products, and the storage of supplies and
materials used in conjunction with such establishments.
      Fences shall conform with section
10-10-13A of this title.
      Growing of field crops and fruit and the machinery and equipment sheds
used for storage of equipment in connection with agricultural activities
performed on the premises.
      Impound yards, automobile wrecking yards.
      Iron and steel fabrication, metalworking and welding shops.
      Junkyards, collecting of rags, paper, iron or scrap materials.
      Landscaping businesses, plant nurseries and shops, including storage of
equipment and materials.
      Lumber and planing mills, cabinetry, and taxidermy, and the equipment and
materials storage used in conjunction with these businesses.
      Machine shops.
      Metal casting.
      Ore reduction and processing.
      Portable Storage Containers shall conform with section
10-2-10 of this title.
      Public buildings for mechanical uses, livestock impoundments, storage
yards, and repair shops.
      Sexually oriented business subject to Title 3 Chapter 11 of city code.
      Signs shall conform with section
10-2-6 of this title.
      Slaughter houses, meat packaging, and wholesale distribution of meat
products.
      Temporary uses shall conform with section
10-2-9 of this title.
      Tire recycling and storage establishments.
      Warehousing and storage.
   B.   All permitted uses shall comply with the special provisions at
10-10-13 of this title. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
Ord. passed - - )
10-10-4: AREA, FRONTAGE, YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
There shall be no area, width, height, and location requirements for buildings
and structures constructed in accordance with the building code except that an
area sufficient to accommodate parking, loading, unloading and vehicular access
shall be provided and maintained. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed
11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-10-5: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building, which is needed to comply with the
provisions of this title, shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on an
adjoining lot be considered as providing the yard or open space on the lot
whereon a building is to be erected or established. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012;
amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-10-6: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE PROHIBITED:
No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parting or other
requirements of this title for a lot or building may be sold or leased apart
from such lot or building unless other space so complying is provided. (Ord.
2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-10-7: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS PROHIBITED AS LIVING QUARTERS:
Living and sleeping quarters in any building are prohibited. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-
10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-10-8: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Sewer connections shall comply with Title 8 of city code.
   B.   Where domestic sewage disposal facilities are used which are not
connected to a public sewer, approval of such facilities shall be obtained from
the state health department before a building permit shall be issued therefor.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-10-9: WATER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   All potable water shall be provided by connections with the municipal
water source where available and in accordance with Title 8 of city code.
   B.   Where no public water is available, approval of such facilities shall
be obtained from the state health department before a building permit or
certificate of occupancy is issued. (Ord. passed 11-29-2022; amd. Ord. passed -
- )
10-10-10: DRAINAGE:
Drainage corridors shall be protected in accordance with
10-12-2 of city code. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022;
Ord. passed - - )
10-10-11: MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS:
Access to all lots and parcels of land having a frontage on a city street shall
be controlled as follows:
   A.   Access shall be by not more than two (2) driveways from any one street.
   B.   Driveways shall be not closer to each other than twenty feet (20').
   C.   On corner lots, no driveways shall be less than fifteen feet (15') to
the point of intersection of the front property line with the side property
line which abuts upon a street.
   D.   Where there is no existing curb and gutter or sidewalk, a curb or fence
may be required by the city. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-10-12: POLLUTION PREVENTION:
Any use which emits or discharges gases, fumes, dust, glare, noise or other
pollutants into the atmosphere in amounts which exceed the standards as
prescribed by Utah state air conservation board or the board of health, and any
use which emits or discharges liquids or solid material onto the soil or water
in amounts which result in pollutants entering groundwater in amounts exceeding
the standards prescribed by the Utah state water pollution control board or the
board of health, shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord.
passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
10-10-13: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All material, merchandise, and equipment (except vehicles in running
order) shall be stored within an enclosed building or within an enclosure
surrounded by a fence not less than six feet (6') in height.
   B.   All display, sale and repair activities shall be conducted within a
fully enclosed building, except those activities that are customarily and
appropriately conducted in the open, including, but not limited to, automobile
sales lots and automobile service stations.
   C.   Temporary sales of Christmas trees and nursery stock shall be permitted
outside of a building unless otherwise prohibited under the terms of this
title.
   D.   All off street parking shall be hard surfaced.
   E.   All buildings and uses shall comply with all applicable supplementary
development standards as set forth in this title.
   F.   All gasoline service station pumps shall be set back at least twenty
feet (20') from all property lines.
   G.   For lots or parcels one (1) acre and less applicant shall provide the
following information on a preliminary sketch:
      1.   General topography and drainage direction arrows for the property.
      2.   Drainage channels.
      3.   All utility easements, both recorded and marked in the field by
flagging.
      4.   Marked up zoning map of area where the property is located and the
location of any residential areas within fifty feet (50') of the property.
   H.   For lots or parcels greater than one (1) acre applicant shall provide
the following information on a preliminary civil engineering plan prepared by a
civil engineer:
      1.   Contour plan at a scale not greater than fifty feet (50') to the
inch and at vertical intervals of not more than two feet (2').
      2.   Drainage channels and direction arrows for the property.
      3.   Layout of the building(s) with all setbacks
      4.   Driveway access from a city street and internal traffic flow design.
      5.   All utility easements, both recorded and marked in the field by
flagging.
      6.   Sewer and water from the building to their point of connection.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. passed 11-29-2022; Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 11
G-1 GOVERNMENT LANDS AND PARKS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Unavailable For Private Development
10-11-1: UNAVAILABLE FOR PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT:
Land unavailable for private development. (Ord. 2009-19, 6-23-2009)
CHAPTER 12
OVERLAY ZONES
SECTION:
10-12-1: OL-1; U.S. Department Of Energy Supplemental Standard
10-12-2: OL-2; Flood Areas And Drainage Corridor Protection
10-12-3: OL-3; Water Source Protection
10-12-4: Special Provisions
10-12-1: OL-1; U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARD:
   A   Intent: The intent in establishing an OL-1 Overlay Zone is to control
building in any zone where a Department of Energy supplemental standard or an
alternative cleanup level exists.
   B   Definitions:
    HABITABLE STRUCTURE: Any building intended for human habitation.
   PERMANENT STRUCTURE: Having a foundation constructed of concrete, cinder
block, or similar material.
   C   Permitted Uses: No permanent, habitable structure shall be erected in
any zone where a Department of Energy supplemental standard or an alternative
cleanup level applies until the following conditions are met:
      1   Excavation Prior To Survey: The foundation for the structure shall be
excavated prior to being surveyed for radiological contamination (i.e., radium-
226 or uranium).
      2   Soil Survey: The soils within the footprint of the structure shall be
surveyed for radiological contamination by a representative of the Department
of Energy.
   D   Special Provisions:
      1   In the event that levels of radiological contamination are found by
the Department of Energy to exceed the cleanup standards established in title
40, U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, part 192.12, the City of Monticello shall
be responsible for removal of the contaminated soils, in accordance with a
supplemental standards cooperative agreement between the Department of Energy
and the City of Monticello.
      2   When the City of Monticello is notified that the footprint of the
structure has been determined by the Department of Energy to meet the specified
cleanup standards, the City shall proceed to issue a building permit to the
property owner. (Ord. 2016-8, 10-11-2016)
10-12-2: OL-2; FLOOD AREAS AND DRAINAGE CORRIDOR PROTECTION:
   A   Intent: The intent in establishing an OL-2 Overlay Zone is to identify
areas in the City where special consideration of flooding and stormwater runoff
is required.
   B   Definitions:
    DRAINAGE CORRIDOR: Locations identified as preservation corridors in storm
drain master plan for the City of Monticello dated December 2009.
   FLOOD AREA: Locations identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) in Letter of Map Revision determination document, dated March 7, 2013.
   C   Special Provisions:
      1   The property owner is responsible for obtaining any insurance
required in a flood zone.
      2   When a property owner with land in a drainage corridor proposes to
alter the property in any manner that will alter the course or grade of a
drainage corridor, a civil engineer will submit to the City a plan showing how
the drainage corridor will be protected or realigned. No changes in grade shall
occur until the City has reviewed the plan.
      3   Nothing in this section will be taken to imply any rights to
stormwater in a drainage corridor, and nothing herein shall alter existing
rights to water in a drainage corridor. (Ord. 2016-8, 10-11-2016)
10-12-3: OL-3; WATER SOURCE PROTECTION:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   This section shall be known as the “Monticello City Drinking Water
Source Protection Ordinance”.
      2.   The purpose of this section is to ensure the provision of a safe and
sanitary drinking water supply for the city by establishing drinking water
source protection zones surrounding the wellheads and collection areas for all
sources for the city water system and by the designation and regulation of
property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply to this section:
                                   A lot or facility where the following
                                   conditions occur:
                                   1. Animals have been or will be stabled or
                                   confined and fed or maintained for a total
                                   of forty five (45) days or more in any
                                   twenty three (23) month period;
                                   2. Crops, vegetation, forage growth or post-
ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION:          harvest residues are not sustained in the
                                   normal growing season over any portion of
                                   the lot or facility.
                                   3. Two (2) or more animal feeding operations
                                   under common ownership are considered to be
                                   a single feeding operation if they adjoin
                                   each other, if they use a common area, or if
                                   they use a common system for the disposal of
                                   wastes.
                                   1. The number of slaughter or feeder cattle;
                                   plus
                                   2. The number of mature dairy cattle
                                   multiplied by 1.4; plus
ANIMAL UNITS:                      3. The number of swine weighing over fifty
                                   five (55) pounds multiplied by 0.4; plus
                                   4. The number of sheep multiplied by 0.1;
                                   plus
                                   5. The number of horses multiplied by 2.0.
                                   A device or administrative control which is
                                   implemented to prevent discharges to the
                                   ground water. Spill protection is an example
CONTAMINATION CONTROL MEASURE:     of a contamination control measure.
                                   Contamination control measures shall be
                                   compliant with the applicable design
                                   standards.
                                   Any substance identified in section 302
                                   (EHS) column of the "Title III List of Lists
EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE:     - Consolidated List of Chemicals Subject to
                                   Reporting under SARA Title III" (EPA 560/4-
                                   91-011).
                                   Zoning and non-zoning controls which
                                   include, but are not limited to, the
                                   following: zoning and subdivision
                                   ordinances, site plan reviews, design and
                                   operating standards, source prohibitions,
LAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES:        purchase of property and development rights,
                                   public education programs, ground-water
                                   monitoring, household hazardous waste
                                   collection programs, water conservation
                                   programs, memoranda of understanding,
                                   written contracts and agreements.
                                   A source of discharges of contaminants to
                                   groundwater or potential discharges of the
                                   liquid forms of extremely hazardous
                                   substances which are stored in containers in
                                   excess of applicable threshold planning
                                   quantities as defined in SARA Title III.
                                   Examples of possible pollution sources
POLLUTION SOURCE:                  include, but are not limited to, the
                                   following: storage facilities that store the
                                   liquid forms of extremely hazardous
                                   substances, septic tanks, drainfields, Class
                                   V underground injection wells, landfills,
                                   open dumps, landfilling of sludge and
                                   septage, manure piles, salt piles, pit
                                   privies and animal feeding operations with
                                   more than ten (10) animal units.
                                   Any facility or site which employs an
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE:    activity or procedure which may potentially
                                   contaminate ground water. A pollution source
                                   is also a potential contamination source.
REGULATORY AGENCY:                 Any governmental agency with jurisdiction
                                   over hazardous waste.
                                   A disposal site where solid wastes,
SANITARY LANDFILL:                 including putrescible wastes, or hazardous
                                   wastes, are disposed of on land by placing
                                   earth cover thereon.
                                   A system which is comprised of a septic tank
                                   and a drainfield which accepts domestic
                                   wastewater from buildings or facilities for
SEPTIC TANK and DRAINFIELD SYSTEM: subsurface treatment and disposal. By their
                                   design, septic tank and drainfield
                                   discharges cannot be controlled with control
                                   devices or control measures.
                                   The upper terminal of a well, including
WELLHEAD:                          adapters, ports, seals, valves and other
                                   attachments.
 
   C.   There are hereby established drinking water source protection zones to
be known as Zones One, Two, Three and Four of the drinking water protection
area, identified and described as follows:
      1.   Zone One is the area within a one hundred foot (100') radius of the
wellhead.
      2.   Zone Two is the area within a two hundred fifty (250) day ground
water time of travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer or aquifers
which supplies water to the ground water source, or the groundwater divide,
whichever is closer.
      3.   Zone Three is the area within a three (3) year ground water time of
travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer or aquifers which supplies
water to the ground water source, or the ground water divide, whichever is
closer.
      4.   Zone Four is the area within a fifteen (15) year ground water time
of travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer or aquifers which
supplies water to the ground water source, or the groundwater divide, whichever
is closer.
   D.   The following land uses shall be permitted within drinking water source
protection zones:
      1.   Any land use permitted within existing agricultural, single-family
residential, multi-family residential and commercial districts so long as the
land use conforms to the rules and regulations of the regulatory agency with
jurisdiction over hazardous waste.
      2.   Any other open land use where any building located on the property
is incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
   E.   The following land uses or conditions are prohibited within drinking
water source protection zones, even if such use or condition may otherwise be
ordinarily included as part of permitted land use under subsection D of this
section:
      1.   Zone One: The location of any uncontrolled potential contamination
sources.
      2.   Zone Two: The location of a pollution source unless its contaminated
discharges can be controlled with controls compliant with design standards.
      3.   Zone Three and Zone Four: The location of a potential contamination
source unless it can be controlled through land management strategies.
   F.   Penalties: The enforcement and penalties for violations of the policies
and procedures for administration of the drinking water source protection zones
established by this section, including, without limitation, those applicable to
nonconforming uses, shall be the same as provided in the existing zoning
ordinance of the city, as the same is now adopted and from time to time
amended. (Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014; amd. Ord. 2020-5, 10-13-2020)
10-12-4: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   In the event that levels of radiological contamination are found by the
Department of Energy to exceed the cleanup standards established in title 40,
U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, part 192.12, the City of Monticello shall be
responsible for removal of the contaminated soils, in accordance with a
supplemental standards cooperative agreement between the Department of Energy
and the City of Monticello.
   B.   When the City of Monticello is notified that the footprint of the
structure has been determined by the Department of Energy to meet the specified
cleanup standards, the City shall proceed to issue a building permit to the
property owner. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
CHAPTER 13
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Intent
10-13-2: Regulations
10-13-3: Approval Of Preliminary Plans
10-13-4: Plan Requirements
10-13-5: Development Standards
10-13-6: Documentation Required
10-13-7: Continuing Obligation
10-13-8: Review And Approval Of Plan
10-13-9: Final Site Plan
10-13-10: Operational Requirements
10-13-11: Storage Of Junk, Debris, Or Unlicensed Inoperable Vehicles Prohibited
10-13-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to promulgate minimum regulations which are
designed to produce a healthy, safe and attractive living environment for the
occupants of the mobile homes. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-13-2: REGULATIONS:
All mobile home parks hereafter constructed or enlarged within the city shall
be located only in zones in which they are listed as a permitted use under the
terms of zone A-1, and shall conform to this revised title. There will be no
mobile home parks within four hundred fifty feet (450') of Main Street from 5th
North to 5th South and within four hundred fifty feet (450') of Central Street
from Main to 5th East. (Ord. 2013-5, 4-23-2013, eff. 4-23-2013)
10-13-3: APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLANS:
Any person wishing to construct a mobile home park shall obtain, from the
zoning administrator, information pertaining to the city's plan of land use,
streets, public facilities and other requirements affecting the land within the
development. Before a permit can be issued for any construction connected with
a mobile home park, the preliminary plans, required documents pertaining to the
development, and the final plan shall have been approved as hereinafter set
forth. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-13-4: PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   A   Submittal: Three (3) copies of the preliminary plan must be submitted to
the zoning administrator at least two (2) weeks prior to the meeting of the
city planning commission, at which time the plan will be considered.
   B   Information Required: The preliminary plan shall be drawn to scale (1
inch equals 30 feet) or larger, as recommended by the zoning administrator, and
shall show the following information:
      1   The topography represented by contours shown at no greater intervals
than five feet (5') when required by the planning commission;
      2   The proposed street and mobile home space layout;
      3   Proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds and open spaces;
      4   Size and character of recreation buildings and other structures
associated with land and facilities to be used by the mobile home park
occupants;
      5   Layout of typical mobile home spaces;
      6   Tabulations showing:
         a   Area of land within the mobile home park;
         b   Number of mobile homes provided for in a mobile home park;
         c   Percent of area to be devoted to parks and playgrounds; and
         d   Number of off street parking spaces;
      7   Proposed location of off street parking spaces;
      8   Proposed landscape planting plan, including type and location of
plant materials;
      9   Location of existing and proposed utility lines and easements, water
and sewer lines, fire hydrants and other improvements;
      10   Draft of proposed documents, including:
         a   Management policies and covenants; and
         b   Maintenance agreement. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-13-5: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The development of a mobile home park shall conform to the following
regulations and standards:
   A   One Ownership: The area shall be in one ownership and the same shall not
be subdivided.
   B   Preliminary Plan Preparation: The preliminary plan must be prepared by
an engineer, land surveyor, architect or landscape architect licensed to
practice in the state.
   C   Minimum Site Size: The minimum site size for a mobile home park shall be
three (3) acres.
   D   Density: Mobile homes may be clustered and individual mobile home sites
may be reduced below that required for single-family dwellings within the zone
in which the development is located; provided, that the gross density of mobile
home units within the development does not exceed eight (8) units per acre.
   E   Park And Play Space: Not less than fifteen percent (15%) of the gross
area of the mobile home park shall be developed into a park and play space for
common use of the occupants. Such park shall be located as near to the center
of the mobile home park as good design will allow. Also, the land area not
contained in a park, mobile home site, road or vehicular parking space shall be
landscaped for the common use and enjoyment of the occupants of the mobile home
park. The land covered by vehicular roadways, sidewalks, off street parking and
landscaped areas surrounding mobile home spaces which are pertinent to each
mobile home, and the area devoted to service facilities, shall not be construed
as being part of the area required for parks and playgrounds.
   F   Front And Rear Yard: The front yard of all mobile homes shall be a
minimum of twelve feet (12'). The rear yard and non-street side shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10').
   G   Side Yard: No mobile home or add on shall be located closer than sixteen
feet (16') from the nearest portion of any other mobile home or add on;
provided, that when a carport is added to a mobile home, the side yard on the
carport side shall be at least six feet (6') from the side lot line, or not
less than ten feet (10') between structures, whichever is greater.
   H   Setback From Roadways; Landscaping: All mobile homes and add ons shall
be set back at least fifteen feet (15') from all roadways. Also, a strip of
land at least ten feet (10') wide surrounding the mobile home park shall be
left unoccupied by mobile homes and shall be planted and maintained in lawn,
shrubs or trees designed to afford privacy to the development.
   I   Driveway Access: All mobile homes must have their driveway access from a
street within a mobile home park.
   J   Setback From City Street; Landscaping: All mobile homes shall be located
at least twenty feet (20') back from any property line and at least seventy
percent (70%) of the resulting setback space shall be landscaped.
   K   Storage And Receptacles; Compatibility: All storage and solid waste
receptacles outside of the confines of a mobile home must be housed in a closed
structure compatible in design and construction to the mobile homes and to any
service buildings within the mobile home park; all patios, garages, carports
and other add ons must also be compatible as to design and construction with
the mobile home and with the service buildings as approved by the zoning
administrator.
   L   Roadway Construction: All roadways shall be constructed as follows:
      1   Base, six inches (6"); gravel - one inch (1") minus, three inches
(3"); asphalt, two inches (2");
      2   For one-way with no parking, sixteen feet (16') in width, plus extra
width as necessary for maneuvering mobile homes;
      3   For two-way with no parking, twenty four feet (24') in width;
Minimum standards may be increased or altered as deemed necessary by the
planning commission.
   M   Entrances: There shall be no more than two (2) entrances from the mobile
home park into any one street, which entrances shall be no closer than twenty
five feet (25') from each other, nor closer than seventy feet (70') to the
corner of an intersection.
   N   Access: Access shall be provided to each mobile home stand by means of
an accessway reserved for maneuvering mobile homes into position and shall be
kept free from trees and other immovable obstructions. Paving the accessway
shall not be required. Use of planks, steel mats, or other means during
placement of a mobile home shall be allowed as long as the same are removed
immediately after placement of the mobile home.
   O   Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall be provided at the rate of
two (2) parking spaces per mobile home space contained within the mobile home
park, and shall be contained within each mobile home space served.
   P   Street Lighting: Street lighting will be as required by the designated
planning commission.
   Q   Mobile Home Stand: The mobile home stand must be constructed so that the
frame of the mobile home will not be more than thirty six inches (36") above
the adjacent ground.
   R   Skirting: All mobile homes must be skirted from floor to grade on all
sides.
   S   Water, Sewage And Solid Waste: All mobile homes shall be served by a
water system, a sewage disposal system, and solid waste disposal facilities
which have been approved by the state health department.
   T   Additional Requirements: In addition to meeting the above requirements
and conforming to all other laws of the city, all mobile home parks shall also
conform to requirements set forth in the mobile home park sanitation
regulations adopted by the Utah state board of health in 1992, and to the fire
code adopted by the city.
   U   Laundry Facilities: Mobile home parks may include a launderette for
convenience of the occupants of the park, but not for the general public.
   V   Landscaped Areas; Irrigation: All landscaped areas shall be provided
with permanent sprinkler irrigation systems as approved by the building
inspector.
   W   Progressive Development: Development may be carried out in progressive
stages, in which event each stage shall be so planned that the requirements and
intent of this chapter shall be complied with at the completion of each stage.
No final plan for the initial stage shall cover less than three (3) acres.
   X   Landscaping; Maintenance: It shall be the developer's responsibility to
assure that each designated lot is landscaped and maintained. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-
10-2012)
10-13-6: DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED:
Documents shall also be submitted with the preliminary plan consisting of:
   A   Declaration Of Policies, Covenants And Restrictions: A declaration of
management policies, covenants and restrictions. Such documents shall set
forth, among other things:
      1   The responsibilities and duties of the renters or occupants relating
to the maintenance of premises and other conditions of occupancy; and
      2   An assertion that the park and play space for the common use of the
occupants will be protected against building development, except for that which
is consistent with landscaped open space.
The purpose of this document is to facilitate proper maintenance of the mobile
home park.
   B   Agreement: An agreement between the developers and the city stating,
among other things:
      1   That the developer will construct the project in accordance with
approved plans;
      2   That, in the event of failure or neglect on the part of the owners,
successors or assigns to enforce the provisions of the declaration of
management policies, covenants and restrictions as approved by the city
council, or to maintain the common areas, landscaping and other improvements in
a condition comparable to the maintenance performed in city parks, the city may
perform the necessary work and for the purpose may enter in upon the land and
do such work and charge the cost thereof, including reasonable attorney fees,
against the owners or their successors or assigns;
      3   That the owners, successors or assigns will agree to reimburse the
city for all work and expenses incurred in the enforcement of this agreement,
including reasonable attorney fees; and
      4   That the agreement shall be binding upon the heirs, assigns,
receivers, successors of the project for the life of the project. (Ord. 2012-
01, 7-10-2012)
10-13-7: CONTINUING OBLIGATION:
Any failure on the part of the developer or his assigns to maintain the mobile
home park in accordance with the approved management policies, covenants,
conditions and restrictions and agreements shall be, and the same is declared
to be, a public nuisance endangering the health, safety and general welfare of
the public and a detriment to the surrounding area; and, in addition to any
other remedy provided by law for the abatement or removal of such public
nuisance, the city may remove or abate the nuisance and charge the cost
thereof, including reasonable attorney fees to the owners as provided by
chapter 11 of title 10, Utah Code Annotated, as amended. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-
2012)
10-13-8: REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PLAN:
   A   Planning Commission; Considerations: The planning commission shall
review the plan and proposed documents to determine compliance with all
portions of the city's master plan. In considering such plan, the planning
commission, among other things, shall make sure that such developments shall
constitute a residential environment of sustained desirability and stability
and that it will not adversely affect amenities in the surrounding area. The
planning commission may require changes to be made in the plan. They may also
require additional yards or buffers or other improvements to be installed along
with greater amounts of landscaping or parking spaces. Such changes may be
imposed as conditions of approval where it is determined by the city council
that such changes are necessary to ensure that the development will mix
harmoniously with adjoining or nearby uses.
   B   City Engineer: The preliminary plan, together with all pertinent
information, shall be sent to the designated city engineer and any other
pertinent city departments for their approval. Such approvals, together with
any comments and/or recommendations, shall be returned to the planning
commission.
   C   Recommendation Of Planning Commission: After receiving all
recommendations, the planning commission shall review the mobile home park
preliminary plan and make recommendation to the city council for approval,
modification and approval, or denial.
   D   Submittal To City Council; Time Limitation: The planning commission
shall submit their recommendation on the mobile home park to the city council
for its consideration within thirty (30) days after receipt of all
recommendations unless an agreement is reached by the applicant and the
planning commission to table the matter until the next regular decision making
meeting of the planning commission. Failure of the planning commission to
submit its recommendation within thirty (30) days or to table the matter shall
be deemed a recommended approval of such commission of the proposed mobile home
park.
   E   Public Meeting: The city council at a public meeting, after fifteen (15)
days notice, may approve, modify and approve, or deny the mobile home park.
   F   Acceptance By City Council: Upon acceptance of the mobile home park by
the city council, the final plat bearing official signatures of the designated
city engineer, city council, city planning commission, city attorney, and also
signed by a licensed land surveyor, shall be deposited in the office of the
county recorder for recording at the expense of the mobile home park applicant.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-13-9: FINAL SITE PLAN:
   A   Submittal To Planning Commission: Upon approval of the preliminary plan
by the city council, the developer shall submit to the planning commission a
final site plan of either the entire mobile home park or the first stage of
such development that is to be constructed.
   B   Preparation; Information Required: The final site plan must be prepared
by an engineer, land surveyor, architect, or landscape architect licensed to
practice in the state. Such final site plan shall show the information
contained on the approved preliminary plan along with a place for the approving
signatures of the designated city engineer, city council, city planning
commission, city attorney, and a licensed land surveyor.
   C   Recordation: Copies of the final approved documents shall also be
recorded in the office of the county recorder. No building permit shall be
issued for such mobile home park until final plans have been approved by the
city council and the required documents have been recorded in the office of the
county recorder and until the bond required under this chapter has been
properly posted. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-13-10: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A   Occupancy: No mobile home space shall be occupied until all improvements
which are required under this chapter, or which are shown on the final plat,
shall have been constructed; provided, however, that occupancy of individual
spaces prior to completion of all required improvements may be temporarily
permitted for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days from the date of the
approval of the mobile home park by the city council; provided further, that:
      1   Plan, Declaration And Agreement Submitted: The final site plan, the
declaration of management policies, covenants and restrictions, and the
agreement required under this chapter shall have been submitted to the planning
commission and city council and approved;
      2   Water, Sewer And Utility Systems: All lots to be occupied are served
with approved water, sewer and utility systems, and all roads are graded and
graveled, and required surface drainage improvements constructed;
      3   Bond; Guarantee: A bond, mortgage or other guarantee, sufficient in
amount to cover the cost of the remaining required improvements, shall have
been received by the city. Such remaining required improvements shall include
hard surfacing of streets and parking spaces, landscaping of all mobile home
sites and common areas, installation of lighting, construction of auxiliary
storage area and any other required improvements as shown on the final plan.
         a   The duration of the bond or other assurance shall be for one year
from the date of approval of the development by the city council. An extension
of time may be granted by the city council upon application by the developer;
provided, that such application is submitted at least sixty (60) days prior to
the expiration of the bond or other assurance; and provided, that the issuer of
the bond is willing to extend the time of the assurance.
         b   In the event that the developer defaults or fails or neglects to
satisfactorily install the required improvements within one year from the date
of approval of the development by the city council, the city council may
declare the bond or other assurance forfeited and the city may install or cause
the required improvements to be installed, using the proceeds from the
collection of the bond or other assurance to defray the expense thereof.
         c   The developer shall be responsible for the quality of all
materials and workmanship. At the completion of the work, or not less than ten
(10) days prior to the release date of the bond or other assurance, the
building inspector shall make a preliminary inspection of the improvements and
shall submit a report to the city council setting forth the conditions of such
facilities. If the conditions of such facilities are found to be satisfactory,
the city council shall release the bond or other assurance. If the conditions
of material or workmanship show unusual depreciation or do not comply with the
acceptable standards of durability, the city council may declare the developer
in default.
      4   License; Temporary Occupancy: A license permitting temporary
occupancy has been issued by the city council.
   B   Business License Required: Prerequisite to the occupancy of any mobile
home park shall be the obtaining of an annual business license which shall be
issued only after inspection by the building inspector. It is unlawful to
operate a mobile home park without first obtaining a business license, and such
license shall be refused or revoked upon failure of the owner and/or operator
to maintain the park in accordance with the standards and requirements as
herein set forth.
   C   Occupancy Lease: Occupancy shall be by written lease, which lease shall
be made available to the officials of the city upon demand. The terms of such
lease shall be consistent with the declaration of management policies,
covenants and restrictions, as required by this chapter.
   D   Minimum Rental Period: No mobile home space shall be rented for a period
of less than thirty (30) days. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-13-11: STORAGE OF JUNK, DEBRIS, OR UNLICENSED INOPERABLE VEHICLES
PROHIBITED:
No yard or other open space surrounding an existing building in any zone, or
which is hereafter provided around any building in any zone, shall be used for
the storage of junk, debris or inoperable vehicles; and no land shall be used
for such purposes, except as specifically provided by this title. Storage of
restorable vehicles may be permitted for a limited time, on a case by case
basis, at the discretion of the zoning administrator. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
CHAPTER 14
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Intent
10-14-2: Planned Unit Development Zone Requirements
10-14-3: Permitted Uses
10-14-4: General Standards And Requirements
10-14-5: Design Standards
10-14-6: Vicinity Plan And Environmental Analysis
10-14-7: Preliminary Plan
10-14-8: Preliminary Documents
10-14-9: Planning Commission Procedures For Approval Of Preliminary Plan
10-14-10: Public Hearing; Approval By City Council
10-14-11: Final Plan And Approval
10-14-12: Stage Construction Permitted
10-14-13: Condominium Projects
10-14-14: Performance Guarantee
10-14-15: Final Disposition And Release
10-14-16: Failure To Comply
10-14-1: INTENT:
   A   The intent of this chapter shall be to set down regulations under which
development can be carried out that will achieve a relationship between open
space and buildings, harmony between the development and the surrounding area,
wider variety of residential settings, more economical development,
accommodation of affordable housing, maintenance of buildings and premises.
Upon approval of a planned unit development, the features and dimensions shown
on the approved plan will constitute the zoning restrictions and regulations as
applied to the territory shown on the approved plan.
   B   A developer may present to the city, a planned unit development (PUD)/
planned community development (PCD) that if approved, shall become the new
zoning/land use ordinance for that particular PUD/PCD. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-
2012)
10-14-2: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT ZONE REQUIREMENTS:
Planned unit developments shall be allowed in the R-2 zones, provided that a
parcel has a minimum of three (3) acres and is owned by one continuous property
owner. The standard allowable density shall average no less than six (6)
dwellings per acre, up to a maximum of eight (8) dwellings per acre. At least
thirty percent (30%) of the gross area of the planned unit development shall be
retained in permanent open space. Parks, playgrounds, sidewalks, nonmotorized
pathways and trails may be computed in the thirty percent (30%) open space
requirement. Land proposed to be devoted to vehicular streets or roads,
parking, and driveways shall not be included in the computation of open space,
park or playground areas. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-14-3: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted in a planned unit development:
Churches.
Golf courses.
Parks and playground facilities.
Recreation buildings.
Schools.
Single-family dwellings.
Swimming pools.
Townhouses and condominiums.
Similar facilities, for use only by the occupants of the development or the
public at large as the planning commission deems appropriate. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-
10-2012)
10-14-4: GENERAL STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The following standards, requirements, and conditions shall apply to all
planned unit developments:
   A   Ownership, Contracts And Design Requirements:
      1   The planned unit development plan shall be prepared by a design team
composed of at least an architect, a landscape architect and a civil engineer,
all of whom shall be required to have a professional license issued by the
state of Utah;
      2   Legal counsel representing the planned unit development shall be
required to prepare all legal agreements and contracts between the petitioner
and the city;
      3   All construction and workmanship that takes place within a planned
unit development must comply with city standards and the provisions of the
building codes adopted by the city and will be subject to inspections as deemed
necessary by the building inspector;
      4   The area proposed for a planned unit development shall be in one
ownership during development to ensure conformity with these provisions and all
other conditions imposed by the planning commission upon the preliminary and
final development plans; and
      5   The planning commission may specify the facilities which will be
maintained by and at the expense of the city, and which facilities will be
maintained by and at the expense of the owners of the development, their
successors or assigns.
   B   Utilities And Transportation:
      1   A public sewer system and a public water supply shall serve all
dwelling units. All utilities within the development shall be placed
underground, including telephone, electrical and television cables. Dwelling
units under separate ownership shall have separate utility metering;
      2   In the event that the land contained within a development is
traversed by a proposed collector or arterial street, the development shall be
designed in accordance therewith, and the right of way across the development
shall be dedicated to the public;
      3   Not less than two (2) parking spaces per dwelling shall be provided;
      4   All parking spaces, parking areas and driveways must be hard surfaced
(paved) and properly drained;
         a   Stormwater runoff collection facilities shall be designed so as to
retain stormwater runoff on development sites for a sufficient length of time
so as to prevent flooding and erosion during stormwater runoff flow periods as
determined by the city engineer, or be designed to divert into the closest
usable irrigation ditch or channel.
         b   No ditch or canal shall be approved as suitable for the use of
storm drainage water without the written permission of the appropriate
irrigation company, or of the water users for such use.
         c   Stormwater runoff collection facilities shall be so designed as to
divert surface water away from cut faces or sloping faces of a fill.
         d   Curb, gutter and pavement designs shall be such that water on
roadways is prevented from flowing off the roadway except into appropriate
drainage facilities;
      5   The required front and side yards which face upon a city street shall
not be used for vehicular parking, but shall be landscaped with appropriate
plants and shrubs as indicated on the approved final development plans;
      6   Sidewalks shall be required in all planned unit developments where
the planning commission deems necessary; and
      7   Nonmotorized pathways and trails shall be required as deemed
necessary by the planning commission to form a logical system for access to all
dwelling units and to all project facilities and off site destinations.
Pathways, when used by substantial numbers of children as play areas or routes
to school or other principal destinations, shall be so located and safeguarded
as to minimize contacts with normal automobile traffic. Street crossings shall
be held to a minimum on such walkways that are located and designed to promote
safety. All crossings shall be appropriately marked and otherwise safeguarded.
If substantial bicycle traffic is anticipated, bicycle paths shall be
incorporated into the walkway system;
      8   Natural drainage shall be riprapped or otherwise stabilized to the
satisfaction of the city engineer below drainage and culvert discharge points
for a distance sufficient to convey the discharge without channel erosion;
      9   Waste material from construction, including soil and other solid
materials, shall not be deposited within a natural or manmade drainage course
within irrigation channels;
      10   Sediment catchment ponds shall be constructed on the development
site, unless sediment retention facilities are otherwise provided by the
developer.
   C   Open Space:
      1   All areas not covered by buildings or by off street parking space or
driveways shall be planted into natural vegetation or lawn, trees, and shrubs.
Landscaped areas shall be maintained in accordance with good landscaping
practices, with emphasis toward low water usage. Permanent sprinkler systems
shall be installed to provide for irrigation of planted areas, except that the
planning commission may find that it will not be necessary to install sprinkler
systems in areas that are to be left in a natural condition; and
      2   Ownership and tax liability of private open space reservations shall
be established in a manner acceptable to the city council and made a part of
the conditions of the plan approval.
   D   Buffering:
      1   At the discretion of the planning commission, fences, walls, earth
berms or vegetation screening may be required along the edges of the
development to protect residents from undesirable views, lighting, noise or
other off site influences or to protect occupants of adjoining residential
districts from similar adverse influences within the development. Screening
shall be designed to control the existing or potential adverse views from
existing or potential first floor residential windows in the planned unit
development or other residential districts; and
      2   All landscaping and buffering shall be provided, completed and
maintained by the developer in a manner to preserve and take the greatest
possible advantage of the natural environment, and to achieve this objective
through minimal grading necessary for construction of a development.
   E   Public Facilities:
      1   In those instances in which the size and scope of a proposed planned
unit development is such that it would have an impact upon public facilities
that warrants an expansion or upgrade to the facilities, the planning
commission may require the dedication of land to accommodate the required
improvements; and
      2   The planned unit development shall be situated and designed in such a
way to be consistent with the city's general plan. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-14-5: DESIGN STANDARDS:
Property development standards in excess of the minimums set forth in this
section may be imposed by the planning commission where it is determined that
such increases are necessary to ensure that the integrity and desirability of
the planned unit development will be maintained.
   A   Minimum Design Standards:
      1   Setbacks shall be maintained along the peripheral property lines of
the planned unit development which shall be at least equal to that required by
the zone on the property immediately adjacent thereto;
      2   In those instances where a proposed planned unit development will
front upon one or more existing streets, the setback from the street shall be
equal to that required by the most restrictive zoning on the property
immediately adjacent along the same street frontage;
      3   Minimum right of way width for a two-way city street shall be thirty
four feet (34'), and the minimum hard surface width shall be twenty four feet
(24'); minimum standards do not allow on street parallel parking. To allow
parallel on street parking the minimum right of way must be fifty feet (50')
and the minimum hard surface must be forty feet (40').
      4   Minimum right of way width for a one-way city street shall be thirty
feet (30'), and the minimum hard surface width shall be twenty feet (20');
minimum standards do not allow on street parallel parking. To allow parallel on
street parking the minimum right of way must be thirty eight feet (38') and the
minimum hard surface must be twenty eight feet (28'). Parking is permitted only
on the right hand side when viewed from the flow of traffic.
      5   Sidewalk construction will be in accordance with subsection
7-2-3C of this code.
      6   Private drives shall have a minimum width of twenty feet (20') and
shall be finished with an all weather surface. Parking of vehicles and
placement of public utilities in private drives is prohibited. The city will
not maintain private drives, and will not collect trash from private drives.
      7   Dead end local streets shall not exceed eight hundred feet (800') in
length and must have a cul-de-sac with a minimum diameter of one hundred feet
(100') curb to curb. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-14-6: VICINITY PLAN AND ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS:
Any person wishing to construct a planned unit development shall obtain from
the zoning administrator information pertaining to the city's plan of land use,
streets, public facilities and other requirements affecting the land to be
developed. The petitioner shall then prepare plans and obtain approval thereof
as hereinafter set forth.
   A   Preparation Of Vicinity Plan: The design team shall prepare a vicinity
plan which shows a simple sketch of the major features of the development in
relation to existing conditions and planned development within one-fourth (1/4)
mile of the outside boundaries of the development and shall submit the same to
the zoning administrator, together with an environmental analysis. The plan may
be a pencil sketch or may be made directly on an aerial photograph.
   B   Environmental Analysis: The environmental analysis statement shall be
prepared by an engineer, landscape architect, land planner or other person
qualified to prepare such a statement as determined by the planning commission,
indicating and describing the measures that will be taken with respect to the
following:
      1   Revegetation of cuts and fills and area which will be denuded in
constructing the planned unit development;
      2   Prevention of fire and control of dust;
      3   Prevention of the accumulation of weeds and debris;
      4   Management of surface water and elimination of flood hazards; and
      5   Reduction in the need for the allocation of public funds for upkeep
and maintenance of streets, water and sewer lines, landscaped areas, etc.,
within the territory to be included in the development. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-
2012)
10-14-7: PRELIMINARY PLAN:
Upon approval of the vicinity plan by the zoning administrator, the petitioner
shall then prepare a preliminary plan and shall submit five (5) copies of the
same to the zoning administrator. The plan must be submitted at least two (2)
weeks prior to the meeting of the planning commission. An administrative fee,
as established by resolution, shall accompany the preliminary plan. The
preliminary plan shall be drawn to scale, not smaller than one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100'), or as recommended by the zoning administrator, and
shall show the following information:
   A   Type of development;
   B   Name of development;
   C   Name and address of the petitioner; a current deed and an abstract of
title or an ownership and encumbrance report showing the record titleholder and
all liens and encumbrances affecting title;
   D   Name and address of the designer;
   E   Position of all buildings and structures to be constructed in the
development. Also, the design of dwellings shall be shown, accompanied by
estimates of the cost to purchasers or renters;
   F   Proposed parks, playgrounds, school sites, and other open spaces; also,
proposed buildings and other facilities for the common use of the occupants or
for the public;
   G   Facilities and services to be supplied by the petitioner or by the
association and the cost thereof to the occupants;
   H   North point and scale;
   I   Township, range, and section lines;
   J   Zone boundary lines and zone designations;
   K   Topography shown by contours at an interval no greater than two feet
(2'), except that a greater interval may be permitted when specifically
authorized by action of the zoning administrator or authorized representative;
   L   Boundary of the development including a legal description thereof;
   M   Total acreage of the development;
   N   Adjacent property ownership;
   O   Preliminary subdivision plan showing layout of all proposed lots;
   P   Proposed circulation pattern, including private and city streets,
sidewalks and nonmotorized pathways and trails;
   Q   Typical street or roadway cross sections;
   R   Existing and proposed canals and waterways, public utility lines and
easements, etc.;
   S   Proposed sewage disposal facilities;
   T   Existing and proposed storm drains, bridges and other stormwater
management measures;
   U   The location and type of water sources. Such sources shall be shown
either on the preliminary plan or on an accompanying map drawn at a scale not
smaller than one inch equals two thousand feet (1" = 2,000'). Appropriate
supporting documents showing that potable water will be available to the
project in quantities as required by the water superintendent, state health
department, and fire marshal, and that such water will be made available to
each dwelling site through a properly designed distribution system, shall be
included as part of the preliminary plan;
   V   Tentative location and size of water mains;
   W   Tentative location of fire hydrants;
   X   Location and size of sewers; and
   Y   Any other information which the zoning administrator or planning
commission considers necessary to enable the planning commission to determine
whether or not to recommend the plan to the city council. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-
2012)
10-14-8: PRELIMINARY DOCUMENTS:
The following documents shall be submitted along with the preliminary plan:
   A   Proposed declaration of management policies, covenants and restrictions
setting forth the responsibilities and duties of the owners, renters or
occupants within the planned unit development;
   B   In the event that the development is to be divided into two (2) or more
ownerships, the document must provide for adequate control and maintenance of
all phases of the development;
   C   An agreement between the petitioners and the city stating, among other
things:
      1   That in the event of failure or neglect on the part of the owners,
successors or assigns to maintain the water and sewerage facilities, common
areas, landscaping and other improvements in good condition, the city may
perform the necessary work and may enter upon the land and do the work and
charge the cost thereof, including reasonable attorney fees, to the owners or
their successors or assigns;
      2   That the owners, successors or assigns will reimburse the city for
all costs which the city incurs in performing the necessary work, including all
professional and technical fees incurred by the city;
      3   That the petitioner will construct and maintain the project in
accordance with approved plans and in accordance with city standards;
      4   That the terms of the contract shall be binding upon the heirs,
assigns, receivers and successors of the project for the life of the project or
buildings; and
      5   Any other conditions that the planning commission deems to be
reasonably necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-
10-2012)
10-14-9: PLANNING COMMISSION PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAN:
   A   Upon presentation of the preliminary plan and documents, the planning
commission shall either approve them as submitted or shall refer them back to
the petitioner for one or more of the following reasons:
      1   The development has been found to be inconsistent with either this
chapter or the general plan;
      2   The planning commission requires that certain specific changes be
made within the plans; or
      3   The plans or documents have not been completed.
   B   Before approving the preliminary plan, the planning commission must make
the following findings:
      1   The proposed development will provide a pleasant and attractive
living environment;
      2   The proposed development will create no detriment to adjacent
properties nor to the general area in which it is located; and that it will be
in substantial harmony with the character of existing developments in the area;
      3   The project will provide more efficient use of the land and more
usable open space than a conventional development permitted in the surrounding
area;
      4   Increased densities allowed within the proposed planned unit
development will be compensated by better site design and by the provision of
increased amenities and recreational facilities; and
      5   The development will not create increased hazards to health, safety
or general welfare of the residents of the proposed planned unit development or
adjacent areas.
   C   The planning commission may impose such conditions on preliminary
development plans as it may deem appropriate to meet the goals and objectives
of this title and chapter, or may disapprove a planned unit development which
is found to be deficient in meeting the intent of these provisions.
      1   Right To Appeal: Any such disapproval may be appealed by the
petitioner to the city council by filing a written appeal with the zoning
administrator within ten (10) days after the decision by the planning
commission.
   D   Upon approval of a preliminary plan for a planned unit development, the
planning commission shall certify the plan to the city council and shall
authorize the zoning administrator to so notify the city council of the action
taken. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-14-10: PUBLIC HEARING; APPROVAL BY CITY COUNCIL:
After receiving notice of the planning commission's approval of the preliminary
plans for a planned unit development, the city council shall schedule a public
hearing and provide reasonable notice of the hearing at least fourteen (14)
days before the date of the hearing.
After the public hearing, the city council may either:
   A   Approve the preliminary plans;
   B   Grant conditional approval of the preliminary plans, contingent on
concurrence of the planning commission; or
   C   Reject the preliminary plans. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-14-11: FINAL PLAN AND APPROVAL:
   A   Submission Of Final Plan: After the preliminary plan has been approved
by the city council, the petitioner shall submit five (5) prints of a final
plan to the planning commission through the zoning administrator for approval
thereof, showing in detail the following information:
      1   All of the information required for submission with preliminary
development plans;
      2   Tabulations of all dwelling units to be constructed by types and
number of bedrooms per unit;
      3   Detailed site plan with complete dimensions showing precise locations
of all buildings and structures, lot or parcel sizes and locations,
designations of common open spaces and special use areas, detailed circulation
pattern including proposed ownership;
      4   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans and exterior
elevations;
      5   Detailed landscaping plans showing the types and sizes of all plant
materials and their locations, decorative materials, recreation equipment,
special effects, and sprinkler or irrigation systems;
      6   Dimensioned parking layout showing location of individual parking
stalls and all areas of ingress or egress;
      7   Detailed engineering plans and final subdivision plat showing the
site grading, street improvements, drainage and public utility locations and,
if required by the zoning administrator, submission of the engineering
feasibility studies;
      8   A copy of protective covenants, association bylaws, articles of
incorporation, bonds and guarantees, as required by the zoning administrator
and/or the city attorney;
      9   A certificate of title showing the ownership of the land;
      10   A certificate of acceptance by the city council for any dedication
of city streets and other public areas, if any, that are made by the owners;
and
      11   A certificate of accuracy by an engineer or land surveyor registered
to practice in the state.
   B   Filing Fee: A filing fee, as established by resolution, shall accompany
the final plan.
   C   Time Limitation: Failure of the petitioner to submit a final development
plan within one year of the approval of the preliminary development plan shall
terminate all proceedings and render the preliminary development plan null and
void.
   D   Approval Of Planning Commission: Final approval from the planning
commission shall be contingent on:
      1   The petitioner's timely submission and acceptance by the planning
commission of all information outlined in subsections A1 through A11 of this
section;
      2   Submission of any other information the planning commission deems
necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter; and
      3   As applicable, evidence of the petitioner's compliance with section
10-14-14, "Performance Guarantee", of this chapter.
      4   Upon approval of the final plan, the planning commission shall
certify the plan to the city council and shall authorize the zoning
administrator to so notify the city council of the action taken.
   E   Approval By City Council: After receiving notice of the planning
commission's approval of the final plan, the city council may either approve or
reject the final plan. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-14-12: STAGE CONSTRUCTION PERMITTED:
Planned unit developments may be carried out in progressive stages, provided
assurance is given to the city that each stage will comply with the
requirements and intent of this title and chapter, with the following
provisions:
   A   Each stage shall be considered as a separate application;
   B   No final plan for each stage shall cover less than three (3) acres when
such projects are part of the overall project as shown on the approved
preliminary plat;
   C   Phase 1 shall be the completion of infrastructure and unit models, which
are not to be sold;
   D   Ingress/egress must meet minimum safety requirements regardless of where
phases end;
   E   The infrastructure for phase 1 shall be approved by the planning
commission and completed before any other phase construction will be
considered. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-14-13: CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS:
The applicant (owner) of any planned unit development which is being developed
as a condominium project under the provisions of the condominium ownership act
of Utah, or subsequent amendments thereto, shall, prior to the conveyance of
any unit, submit to the zoning administrator a master deed consisting of a
declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions relating to the project,
which shall become part of the final development plan and shall be recorded to
run with the land. Such master deed shall include management policies which
shall set forth the quality of maintenance that will be performed, and who is
to be responsible for such maintenance within such condominium development. The
document shall, as a minimum, contain the following:
   A   The establishment of a private association or corporation responsible
for all maintenance, which shall levy the cost thereof as an assessment to each
unit owner within the condominium development;
   B   The establishment of a management committee with provision setting forth
the number of persons constituting the committee, the method of selection and
the powers and duties of such committee;
   C   The method of calling a meeting of the members of the corporation or
association, with the members thereof that will constitute a quorum authorized
to transact business;
   D   The method proposed for maintenance, repair and replacement of common
areas and facilities, and distribution of costs therefor;
   E   The manner of collection from unit owners for their share of common
expenses, and the method of assessment;
   F   Provisions as to percentage of votes by unit owners which shall be
necessary to determine whether to rebuild, repair, restore or sell property in
the event of damage or destruction of all or part of the project; and
   G   The method by which the declaration may be amended. The declaration
required herein, any amendment and any instrument affecting the property or any
unit therein shall be approved by the city council and recorded with the county
recorder. Neither the declaration nor any amendment thereto shall be valid
until approved and recorded. The declaration and amendments thereto shall be
maintained as part of the final development plan for the planned unit
development. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-14-14: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
   A   Bond Requirement: In order to ensure that the planned unit development
will be constructed to completion in accordance with approved plans, the
petitioner shall post a bond or mortgage or other valuable assurance acceptable
to the city council in the form of a surety bond, letter of credit, cash
escrow, first deed of trust, or similar collateral in an amount equal to one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of all required
landscaping, road improvements, pedestrianways, curbs and gutters, hard
surfacing, water and sewer lines and domestic sewage disposal facilities and
common facilities as shown on the final plat/plan. City staff shall verify the
correct amount of the bond based upon review of the cost of the required
improvements. The duration of the bond shall be equivalent to the time
deadlines specified in the improvements agreement which, in any case, shall not
exceed twenty four (24) months from the date of approval. Final determination
of the amount of the bond or other assurance shall be made by the city council.
No building permit for any portion of a planned unit development shall be
issued until the final plan thereof has been approved by the city council.
Compliance with all material terms of the improvements agreement and the final
plat/plan shall be a prerequisite to the developer obtaining a building permit
for individual dwellings and/or a certificate of occupancy or zoning
compliance.
      1   Bond Duration: The duration of the bond or other assurance shall be
for two (2) years from the date of approval of the development by the city
council. An extension of time may be granted by the city council upon
application by the petitioners, provided such application is submitted at least
sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the bond and provided the issuer of
the bond is willing to extend the time of the assurance.
   B   Retention Of Open Space: Adequate guarantees shall be provided for
permanent retention of the open space area as follows:
      1   The city shall require the petitioner to furnish and record
protective covenants, which will guarantee the retention of the open land area.
The city shall also require the creation of an association granting beneficial
rights to the open space to all owners or occupants of land within the
development;
      2   The petitioner shall be required to develop and maintain all open
space, unless part of or all of it is contiguous to and is made a part of an
existing park;
      3   In the case of private reservation, the open space to be reserved
shall be protected against subsequent building development by conveying to the
city, as part of the condition for project approval, an open space easement
over such open areas, restricting the area against future building or use,
except as approved on the final development plan;
      4   The care and maintenance of such open space reservation shall be
ensured by the petitioner by establishing a private association or corporation
responsible for such maintenance which shall levy the cost thereof and an
assessment of the property owners within the planned unit development.
Ownership and tax liability of private open space reservations shall be
established in a manner acceptable to the city and made a part of the
conditions of the final plan approval.
   C   Default: Developers who: 1) fail to timely complete the approved plan;
2) fail to complete construction in a quality manner; 3) allow mechanics' liens
to attach to improvements; or 4) otherwise fail to comply with the approved
plan shall be issued a notice of violation and informed of their default under
the improvements agreement and guarantee. Each such developer shall be given a
reasonable period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, in which to cure any
noncompliance with the improvements agreement.
      1   Default of any portion of this subsection C will have consequential
effects: a) the developer shall be enjoined from any conveyance or transfer of
platted lots; b) no further building permits will be issued; and c) a
certificate of zoning compliance will not be issued for any structures
completed to that date. In addition, the city may, at its option, complete all
or a portion of the remaining improvements required by the agreement or solicit
bids for the completion of all such improvements. In such case, the city shall
be entitled to recover from the developer the surety, and the holder of the
collateral sufficient sums to cover all costs of construction, including
incidental costs, and reasonable attorney fees.
      2   Upon certification of completion by the appropriate staff, and
acceptance of the improvements, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances,
the city shall execute a written acceptance and release the bond or other
collateral. Partial releases of collateral are authorized as improvements are
completed and accepted in accordance with the phasing plan approved as part of
the final plat/plan.
   D   Right To Hearing: A developer contesting a notice of violation may
request a hearing before the city council by submitting a written request no
later than ten (10) days from the issuance of the notice of violation. Any
action to forfeit the bond or collateral shall be stayed until completion of
the hearing. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-14-15: FINAL DISPOSITION AND RELEASE:
The petitioner shall be responsible for the quality of all materials and
workmanship. At the completion of the work, or not less than ten (10) days
prior to the release date of the bond or other assurance, the zoning
administrator shall make a preliminary inspection of the improvements and shall
submit a report to the city council setting forth the conditions of such
facilities. If all liens are paid and other conditions thereof are found
satisfactory, the city council shall release the bond or other assurance. If
the condition of the material or workmanship shows unusual depreciation or does
not comply with the acceptable standards of durability, or if any outstanding
liens are not paid, the city council may declare the petitioner in default.
(Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-14-16: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
In case of failure or neglect to comply with any and/or all of the conditions
and regulations as herein established, and as specifically made applicable to a
planned unit development, the zoning administrator shall not issue a
certificate of zoning compliance therefor. Such failure or neglect shall be
cause for termination of the approval of the project. Such failure or neglect
to comply with the requirements and to maintain the buildings and premises in
accordance with the conditions of approval thereafter shall also be deemed a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
CHAPTER 15
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Standards And Requirements
10-15-1: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The development of a recreational vehicle park shall conform to the following
standards and requirements unless modified by an approved planned development
plan:
An RV park shall be adapted to individual site conditions and the plat should
use terrain, natural drainage conditions when possible, existing trees, shrubs
and rock formations with a minimum of disturbance of the land. Conditions of
soil, groundwater level, drainage and topography shall not create hazards to
the property of the health or safety of the occupants or adjoining neighbors.
Recreational vehicle parks shall be located in a C-1 commercial zone.
   A   Park Area Requirements: One acre minimum, not more than twenty (20)
spaces.
   B   Space Area Requirements: Eight hundred (800) square feet minimum for
full hookups. (No RV park shall have a density greater than 20 units per acre.)
Four hundred (400) square feet minimum for those spaces not having hookups.
Minimum rental space size shall not include any area required for access roads,
off street parking, service buildings, recreation areas, office and similar RV
park needs.
   C   Open Space: Open space for common areas, playgrounds and other
recreational uses shall be provided at the rate of at least ten percent (10%)
of the gross area of the RV park, and shall be of sufficient size and
distribution as to be a functional part of the entire development plan. Open
space shall not include any area designated as a roadway, RV rental space,
storage area, or any area required for setbacks as set forth in subsection F of
this section.
   D   Rental Pad Requirements: Spaces containing hookups for water, sewer and
electricity shall be equipped with a surface area of not less than ten feet by
forty feet (10' x 40'). Surfacing shall consist of gravel, asphalt or concrete.
Where gravel surfacing is used, the design of the gravel pad shall be approved
by the city engineer to maintain proper drainage and minimize dust. Where
provided, each RV unit shall be parked entirely on the surface area so that no
part thereof obstructs any roadway or walkway within the RV park. Those spaces
not equipped with such a surface area, intended for occupancy by recreational
vehicles not having self-contained toilets, lavatory or bathing facilities,
shall be equipped with a gravel pad, the design of which shall be approved by
the city engineer, of not less than ten feet by twenty five feet (10' x 25')
for RV unit parking and a hookup for water. Electricity shall be provided with
at least one hundred ten (110) volts, or 110/220 volts, installed in accordance
with applicable state electrical codes.
No individual space in a recreational vehicle park shall be used by one
individual for more than one hundred eighty (180) days consecutively, nor shall
such space be rented or leased to any one individual for a period longer than
one hundred eighty (180) days in any one calendar year.
   E   Space Width Requirements: Twenty feet (20') minimum. There shall be a
minimum distance of ten feet (10') provided between RV units parked side by
side. There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet (10') between RV units
parked end to end. There shall be a minimum distance of twenty feet (20')
between any RV space and any building.
   F   Park Setback Requirements: Each recreational vehicle park shall have the
following setbacks:
      1   Side Setback And Rear Setback: Ten feet (10') minimum from adjacent
property other than R-1 and R-2. In R-1 and R-2 setback shall increase to
twenty feet (20'). The side setback shall be a drainage swale without any
utilities. An additional five feet (5') shall be provided if utilities are to
be included in the development.
      2   Front Setback: Twenty feet (20') minimum from a state highway and ten
feet (10') from a city street.
   G   Allowed Vehicle Requirements: Only recreational vehicles, as defined in
section
10-1-4, "Definitions", of this title, may be located in an RV park.
   H   Parking Requirements: Parking shall be provided for each RV in the park
in addition to one automobile for each RV space. RV parking spaces need not be
hard surface but should be of a gravel type material and be kept weed free.
Each recreational vehicle (RV) shall be able to park in designated spaces, and
no portion of a driveway or roadway may be used for recreational vehicle
parking. All RVs shall maintain at least ten feet (10') spacing between RV
units.
   I   Access And Roadway Requirements: Each RV park shall have access roads as
follows:
      1   For One-Way Traffic: Roadways with no parking: Eighteen feet (18') in
width;
      2   For Two-Way Traffic: Roadways with no parking: Thirty two feet (32')
width;
      3   For Entrance Roadways: The city requires thirty two feet (32') in
width. Each RV park greater than three (3) acres shall have at least two (2)
accesses to city streets. On state highways, meet the UDOT requirements.
      4   Road Design: Streets or roadways and parking areas within the RV park
shall be designed to provide safe and convenient access to all spaces and to
facilities for common use by park occupants, and shall be constructed and
maintained to allow free movement of emergency and service vehicles at all
times, and shall be graded to drain and surfaced with gravel, asphalt or
concrete, the design of which shall be approved by the city engineer, to
maintain proper drainage and minimize dust. A forty five foot (45') turning
radius shall be required on all curves, to allow access by emergency vehicles.
      5   Lighting: All roadways and walkways within the park shall be
adequately lighted at night, to provide safe access. All lights shall be
shielded to keep the light from leaving the property. (0 foot-candles at the
property line.)
   J   Outdoor Living Space Requirements: Each RV space shall provide an
"outdoor living" space adjacent to the vehicle parking space. The outdoor
living space shall be a minimum of two hundred (200) square feet and shall be
maintained in a clean and weed free manner.
   K   Landscaping Requirements: A landscape plan, to be approved by the plan
commission of the city of Monticello, shall be required for all RV parks.
Landscape shall be designed to perform the following conditions:
      1   Provide an attractive entrance and street frontage;
      2   Provide dust and erosion control;
      3   Provide a neat, attractive and aesthetically pleasing appearance.
Drought tolerant grass and ornamental landscaping shall be required in all RV
parks, together with adequate water outlets to maintain all landscaping. The RV
park shall be screened from R-1 residential properties by means of fences or
walls six feet (6') in height. All other adjacent properties may be screened by
hedges or other landscaping.
   L   Utility Requirements: All RV parks shall be served by public water
supply and public sewer system (including dump stations). All utilities shall
be placed underground. City utilities shall be metered as determined by the
city codes. Installation of backflow valves and dump stations shall be in
accordance with the applicable codes.
   M   Fire Protection: Fire hydrants shall be installed throughout all RV
parks in accordance with the specifications of the city of Monticello fire
department.
   N   Sanitary Facility Requirements: All RV parks shall meet all sanitary
facilities required by the Utah state department of health code for RVs and
shall provide a dump station for dependent recreational vehicles. Parking
around the service building shall be hard surfaced. Recreational vehicles shall
meet all requirements of the recreational vehicle sanitation code, R392-301, as
adopted by the Utah state board of health in 1993, which code is hereby adopted
by reference.
   O   Refuse Disposal: The storage, collection and disposal of refuse shall be
performed so as to minimize accidents, fire hazards, air pollution, odors,
insects, rodents or other nuisance conditions. All refuse shall be stored in
durable, washable and nonabsorbent metal or plastic containers with
tightfitting lids. Such containers shall be provided at the rate of at least
one 30-gallon container, secured in a rack or holder, for each rental space, or
an equivalent storage capacity in a centralized storage facility. Adequate
refuse collection and removal shall be the responsibility of the park owner and
contracted with the city.
   P   Tents: Tents shall be permitted, within RV parks. Areas for group tent
camping may be established, with the following provisions:
      1   The area set aside for such group use is not part of any designated
open space;
      2   An adequate number of parking spaces is provided;
      3   The area is served by one or more water outlets; and
      4   The area is located no further than three hundred feet (300') from a
service building.
   Q   Structural Additions: Temporary structures such as canvas awnings,
screened enclosures, or platforms, which are normal camping equipment, may be
erected but must be removed when the rental space is vacated. No other
structural additions shall be built onto or become a part of any RV.
   R   Storage Sheds: No storage sheds shall be allowed within an RV rental
space.
   S   RV Storage: Recreational vehicles may be stored where permitted, but not
used for permanent living quarters.
   T   Stormwater Management: Storm drainage facilities shall be so constructed
as to protect visitors to the RV park as well as adjacent property owners. Such
facilities shall be of sufficient capacity to ensure rapid drainage and
development and shall be connected to the city's storm drainage facilities.
   U   Application Requirements And Procedures: The proponent of a recreational
vehicle park, or an expansion thereof, shall make written application for
special review for a recreational vehicle (RV) park, in accordance with title
11 of this code, subdivision requirements and the following shall also be
submitted with such application to the planning commission and city council:
      1   A preliminary site development plan designating rental spaces,
utility easements, roadways, open space, accessory buildings and special
features.
      2   Upon receiving an affirmative review by the city council and the plan
commission for the project, a complete and comprehensive development plan,
including the following:
         a   Detailed land use plan, drawn to a scale of one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100'), unless larger scale is necessary, including the
dimensions and location of each RV rental space, service buildings, common and
recreation areas, surrounding land uses and zoning districts prepared by an
architect or civil engineer;
         b   Typical street cross sections;
         c   Location and widths of roadways, sidewalks and pedestrianways;
         d   Topography of site, at two foot (2') contours;
         e   Grading and drainage plans;
         f   Utility plans;
         g   Legal description of property, including acreage;
         h   Copy of title commitment;
         i   Landscaping, screening and fencing plans;
         j   Fire protection plan;
         k   Location and description of all permanent structures and common
facilities;
         l   Acreage and percentage of land to be set aside as open space;
         m   Density of RV rental spaces per acre;
         n   Vicinity map drawn to a scale of one inch equals one thousand feet
(1" = 1,000') or one inch equals five thousand feet (1" = 5,000');
         o   Location of all areas subject to inundation or stormwater overflow
and the location, area and direction of flow of all water sources, including
the 100-year floodplain boundaries;
         p   Location and principal dimensions of all existing or proposed
easements, watercourse boundaries, public utilities, monuments, pins, bench
marks and other significant features;
         q   Proposed surface treatment and design of all interior roadways and
rental pads.
      3   A listing of all names and addresses of all owners of the property
located, in whole or in part, within three hundred feet (300') of the property
line.
      4   A time schedule for the development.
      5   Information regarding abutting properties and land uses.
      6   An application fee for special review, as set forth in title 11 of
this code.
      7   A fee for establishing or expanding a recreational vehicle park.
(Ord. 2016-2, 1-12-2016)
CHAPTER 16
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-16-1: Building Permits Required; Application
10-16-2: Plans Required
10-16-3: Permits And Business License; Compliance With Title
10-16-4: Zoning Administrator
10-16-1: BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
No person, firm or corporation shall commence to construct, alter or move a
building or structure, or to make a change in use of any land within the
territory shown on the zone map which has been adopted as a part of this title
without first submitting an application and obtaining a permit therefor from
the zoning administrator or other authorized officer; provided, however, that
permits for the moving of structures shall be granted only in compliance with
the requirements as set forth in subsection
10-2-4G of this title. Said permit shall also be required for the moving and/or
improvement of mobile homes, demountable homes, manufactured homes, and similar
movable structures, except when being moved from outside of town into an
approved mobile home park. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-16-2: PLANS REQUIRED:
All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by plans which have
been drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon,
setbacks, the size and location of existing buildings, utilities and, as
required, the location and layout of off street parking and a planting plan
showing how the premises will be landscaped. A careful record of said
application and plans shall be kept in the office of the zoning administrator
for a period of five (5) years from the date of receipt thereof. (Ord. 2012-01,
7-10-2012)
10-16-3: PERMITS AND BUSINESS LICENSE; COMPLIANCE WITH TITLE:
   A   Permits: No permits shall be granted for the construction or alteration
of any building or structure or for the moving of a building or structure onto
a lot or for the change in use of any land, building or structure if such
construction, alteration, moving or change would be a violation of any
provision of this title, nor shall any sewer or water service line or electric
utilities be installed to serve the premises if such use would be in violation
of this title.
   B   Defined Terms: For the purposes of the above provision, "construction"
and "alteration" shall be defined as the erection, reconstruction, remodeling
or razing of any structure to the extent of five hundred dollars ($500.00) in
replaceable value.
   C   Business License: No business license shall be issued by the city which
would not be in conformance with the provisions of this title. Any license so
issued shall be null and void. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
10-16-4: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A   Appointed: The zoning administrator, who is appointed by the city
council, shall be charged with the administration and enforcement of this
title. The city council may also appoint other officers to assist in the
administration and enforcement of this title.
   B   Powers And Duties:
      1   It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to inspect or cause
to be inspected all buildings in the course of construction or repair. He shall
enforce all of the provisions of this title, entering actions in the courts,
when necessary, and his failure to do so shall not legalize any act in
violation of such provisions.
      2   Upon appeal to the board of adjustment of any matters on which said
board is required to pass, the zoning administrator shall transmit all papers,
records and other pertinent data pertaining to the appeal to said board of
adjustment as required by the terms of this title. The zoning administrator
shall also refer matters to the planning commission and city council as set
forth in this title. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012)
CHAPTER 17
TINY HOME PARKS
SECTION:
10-17-1: Intent
10-17-2: General Requirements And Limitations
10-17-3: Development Standards
10-17-4: Preliminary Plat Required
10-17-5: Documentation Required
10-17-6: Review And Approval Of Preliminary Plat And Documentation
10-17-7: Approval Of Final Plat And Documentation
10-17-8: Operational Requirements
10-17-9: Storage Of Junk, Debris, Or Unlicensed Inoperable Vehicles Prohibited
10-17-1: INTENT:
   A.   The tiny home park is intended to increase housing density on the
property enclosed by the tiny home park exterior boundary.
   B.   The intent of this chapter is to promote the health, safety,
convenience and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the
tiny home park. (Ord. 2024-7, 1-28-2025)
10-17-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Tiny home is the same as that defined in 10-1-4 of the city code.
   B.   All tiny home parks hereafter constructed within the city shall be
located only in zones Commercial and R-2 Residential.
   C.   Accessory Dwelling Units shall not be permitted within the tiny home
park.
   D.   Garages shall not be permitted within the tiny home park. As used in
this title, garage means a permanent structure on a foundation, with side and
end walls, and a roof.
   E.   Preservation Of Land: Trees, native land cover, natural watercourses,
and topography shall be preserved when possible, and the tiny home park shall
be so designed as to prevent excessive grading and scarring of the landscape in
concordance with the provision of this title.
   F.   In addition to meeting the requirements of this section and conforming
to all other laws of the city, all tiny home parks shall also conform to
building, electrical, plumbing, and fire codes adopted by the city.
   G.   Cost of improvements which are required under the provisions of this
title, as well as the cost of other improvements which the developer may
install, shall be at the expense of the developer.
   H.   No tiny home space or tiny home unit shall be rented for a period of
less than thirty (30) days. (Ord. 2024-7, 1-28-2025)
10-17-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   The development of a tiny home park shall conform to the following
regulations and standards:
      1.   The area to be developed as a tiny home park shall be in one
ownership and the same shall not be subdivided.
      2.   The minimum number of tiny home spaces within the park shall be
three (3) and development of additional spaces within the park shall be the
number necessary to occupy at least sixty percent (60%) of the entire tiny home
park land area.
      3.   The preliminary plat required by this chapter must be prepared by an
engineer, land surveyor, architect or landscape architect licensed to practice
in the state.
      4.   The minimum site size for a tiny home park shall be two-thousand
seven hundred (2,700) square feet per tiny home space.
      5.   The tiny home park shall include:
         a.   A common area not less than ten by thirty feet (10' x 30') in
size for the use and enjoyment of tiny home park residents;
         b.   A common parking area for use by guests of tiny home park
residents;
            (1)   The number of parking spaces shall be one per tiny home park
unit; and
            (2)   Parking spaces size shall conform with 10-2-1, Off Street
Parking Requirements, of city code; and
            (3)   Surface of the parking area may be gravel, concrete, or
asphalt; and
            (4)   Common parking area shall not be used for storage of
trailers, vehicles, or other items owned by a resident of the tiny home park.
         c.   Residential off street parking shall be provided at the rate of
two (2) parking spaces per tiny home and
            (1)   Shall be contained within each tiny home space served; and
            (2)   Shall be for the use of the tiny home resident(s) of that
space; and
            (3)   Shall be at least eighteen by eighteen feet (18' x 18') in
size and shall be surfaced with gravel, concrete, or asphalt.
      6.   All tiny homes must have their driveway access from a street within
the tiny home park and not from a public street exterior to the tiny home park.
      7.   Setback requirements for placement of tiny homes within the tiny
home park:
         a.   Rear setback shall be ten feet (10') from the tiny home park rear
lot line;
         b.   Side setback shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') from the
closest neighboring tiny home;
         c.   Front setback shall be twenty feet (20') from the edge of the
internal access road for the tiny home park
      8.   Accessory Buildings; Compatibility:
         a.   Any accessory building used to provide service within the tiny
home park shall not exceed six hundred (600) square feet, except one service
building may be combined with another service building on a single foundation
of eight hundred (800) square feet;
         b.   Other accessory buildings including carports may not exceed two
hundred (200) square feet in size.
         c.   All patios, carports and other accessory buildings must be of
compatible design and construction to the tiny homes, and meet setback
requirements as specified in this code.
         d.   As used in this section carport means a detached structure
without a permanent foundation and which has no enclosed end or side walls.
      9.   Any street within the park shall be constructed to the standards
specified in Title 7 Public Ways and Property of city code.
      10.   There shall be no more than two (2) entrances from the tiny home
park into any one public street, and the entrances shall be no closer than
twenty five feet (25') from each other, nor closer than seventy feet (70') to
the corner of an intersection.
      11.   A utility easement shall be reserved to the city across the public
street frontage of the tiny home park, said easement to extend at least fifteen
feet (15') back of curb or in the absence of a curb, back of pavement.
         a.   A city issued trash receptacle for use of all residents in the
park shall be placed in the easement in accordance with city code; and
         b.   All water meters for each individual tiny home space within the
park shall be placed within the easement in accordance with city code.
      12.   Street lights shall be required within the park at all street
intersections.
      13.   Tiny home units shall be placed on a permanent foundation that
complies with city building code.
      14.   Water, Sewage And Solid Waste:
         a.   The tiny home shall be served by municipal water, sewage, and
sewer disposal facilities in conformance with Title 8 of city code.
         b.   The tiny home park shall be served by municipal solid waste
collection in conformance with Title 4 of city code.
      15.   Placement of each tiny home by means of an accessway reserved for
maneuvering tiny homes into position is allowed and shall be kept free from
trees and other immovable obstructions.
         a.   Paving the accessway shall not be required.
         b.   Use of planks, steel mats, or other means during placement of a
tiny home shall be allowed as long as the same are removed immediately after
placement of the tiny home.
      16.   Laundry Facilities: Tiny home parks may include a service building
equipped as laundromat for convenience of the occupants of the park, but not
use by the general public.
      17.   Landscaped Areas shall conform to Title 10-2-18 of city code
      18.   Progressive Development: Development may be carried out in
progressive stages, in which event each stage shall be so planned that the
requirements and intent of this chapter shall be complied with at the
completion of each stage. No final plat for the initial stage shall cover less
than sixty percent (60%) of the park area.
      19.   Landscaping; Maintenance: It shall be the developer's
responsibility to assure that each designated space is landscaped and
maintained and that the park and playground within the tiny home park is
landscaped and maintained. (Ord. 2024-7, 1-28-2025)
10-17-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIRED:
   A.   Any person wishing to construct a tiny home park shall obtain from the
zoning administrator information pertaining to the city's plan of land use,
streets, public facilities and other requirements affecting the land within the
development.
   B.   Review and approval of the preliminary plat is required prior to:
      1.   Any excavation or construction activity within the proposed tiny
home park; and
      2.   The sale, lease, or rent of any tiny home; or
      3.   The lease or rent of any tiny home space within the park.
   C.   Content Of Preliminary Plat: The preliminary plat shall be drawn to
scale (1 inch equals thirty feet (30')) or larger and shall show the following
information:
      1.   The topography represented by contours shown at no greater intervals
than five feet (5');
      2.   The proposed access street(s) within the tiny home park;
      3.   Layout of tiny home spaces within the park;
         a.   Tiny homes may be clustered and individual tiny home spaces may
be reduced below that required for tiny home dwellings within the zone in which
the development is located when necessary to meet requirements for common area
and guest parking.
      4.   Proposed location of the common area;
      5.   Number of off street parking spaces for use by visitors;
      6.   Size and character of recreation buildings and other structures
associated with land and facilities to be used by the tiny home park occupants;
      7.   Proposed location of the common area;
      8.   Tabulations showing:
         a.   Area of land within the tiny home park;
         b.   Number of tiny homes provided for in the tiny home park;
         c.   Percent of area to be devoted to parks and playgrounds;
      9.   Proposed landscape planting plan, including type and location of
plant materials;
      10.   Location of existing and proposed utility lines and easements,
water and sewer lines, fire hydrants and other improvements within and
immediately adjacent to the park;
      11.   Draft of proposed documents, including:
         a.   Management policies and covenants; and
         b.   Maintenance agreement.
   D.   Three (3) copies of the preliminary plan must be submitted to the
zoning administrator at least four (4) weeks prior to the meeting of the city
planning commission, at which time the plan will be considered. (Ord. 2024-7,
1-28-2025)
10-17-5: DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED:
   A.   To facilitate proper maintenance of the tiny home park documents shall
also be submitted with the preliminary plat consisting of:
      1.   Declaration Of Policies, Covenants And Restrictions: A declaration
of management policies, covenants and restrictions. Such documents shall set
forth, among other things:
         a.   The responsibilities and duties of the renters or occupants
relating to the maintenance of premises and other conditions of occupancy; and
         b.   An assertion that the park and play space for the common use of
the occupants will be protected against building development.
   B.   Declaration Of Management Policies: An agreement between the developers
and the city stating, among other things:
      1.   The developer will construct the project in accordance with approved
plans;
      2.   In the event of failure or neglect on the part of the owners,
successors or assigns to enforce the provisions of the declaration of
management policies, covenants and restrictions as approved by the city
council, or to maintain the common areas, landscaping and other improvements,
the city may perform the necessary work and for the purpose may enter in upon
the land and do such work and charge the cost thereof, including reasonable
attorney fees, against the owners or their successors or assigns;
      3.   The agreement shall be binding upon the heirs, assigns, receivers,
successors of the project for the life of the project.
         a.   Any failure on the part of the developer or his assigns to
maintain the tiny home park in accordance with the approved management
policies, covenants, conditions and restrictions and agreements shall be, and
the same is declared to be, a public nuisance endangering the health, safety
and general welfare of the public and a detriment to the surrounding area; and
         b.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law for the abatement
or removal of such public nuisance, the city may remove or abate the nuisance
and charge the cost thereof, including reasonable attorney fees, to the owners.
(Ord. 2024-7, 1-28-2025)
10-17-6: REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT AND DOCUMENTATION:
   A.   Planning Commission Considerations: The planning commission shall
review the preliminary plat and proposed documents to determine compliance with
all portions of the city's general plan.
      1.   In considering such plan, the planning commission, among other
things, shall make sure that such developments shall constitute a residential
environment of sustained desirability and stability and that it will not
adversely affect amenities in the surrounding area.
      2.   The planning commission may require changes to be made in the
preliminary plat and documentation.
      3.   The planning commission may require additional yards or buffers or
other improvements to be installed along with greater amounts of landscaping or
parking spaces.
   B.   City Engineer: The preliminary plan, together with all pertinent
information, shall be sent to the designated city engineer and any other
pertinent city departments for their approval. Such approvals, together with
any comments and/or recommendations, shall be returned to the planning
commission.
   C.   Recommendation Of Planning Commission: After receiving all
recommendations, the planning commission shall review the tiny home park
preliminary plat and documentation and make recommendation to the city council
for approval, modification and approval, or denial.
   D.   Submittal To City Council; Time Limitation: The planning commission
shall submit their recommendation on the tiny home park to the city council for
its consideration within thirty (30) days after receipt of all recommendations
unless
      1.   An agreement is reached by the applicant and the planning commission
to table the matter until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the planning
commission.
      2.   Failure of the planning commission to submit its recommendation
within thirty (30) days or to table the matter shall be deemed a recommended
approval of the proposed tiny home park.
   E.   The city council at a regularly scheduled and noticed public meeting
may approve, modify and approve, or deny the preliminary plat and documents for
the tiny home park. (Ord. 2024-7, 1-28-2025)
10-17-7: APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT AND DOCUMENTATION:
   A.   Submittal To Planning Commission: Upon approval of the preliminary plat
and documentation by the city council, the developer shall submit to the
planning commission a final site plat of either the entire tiny home park or
the first stage of such development that is to be constructed, and the required
documentation.
   B.   The final plat must be prepared by an engineer, land surveyor,
architect, or landscape architect licensed to practice in the state. Such final
site plat shall show the information contained on the approved preliminary plat
along with a place for the approving signatures of the designated city
engineer, city mayor, city planning commission chairperson, city attorney,
licensed land surveyor, city recorder, city public works director, and city
planning and zoning administrator.
   C.   Recordation Of Final Plat:
      1.   Following city council approval of the final plat, the subdivider
shall:
         a.   Present to the county recorder the final mylar plat, bearing all
required signatures, and pay all recording fees; or
         b.   Present to the county recorder the final plat in electronic
format as required at Utah Code Title 17, Chapter 21a, Uniform Real Property
Electronic Recording Act, and pay all recording fees.
      2.   The subdivider shall file with the city recorder:
         a.   One paper copy of the signed final plat bearing the county
recorder's stamp; and
         b.   A copy of the final plat in electronic format as required at Utah
code Title 17 Chapter 21a Uniform Real Property Electronic Recording Act and
city code
11-2-4G.
      3.   The city council approval of the final plat shall be void if the
final plat is not recorded within one year after the date of approval, unless
application for an extension of time is made in writing to the planning
commission and granted during the one year period. (Ord. 2024-7, 1-28-2025)
10-17-8: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   An improvement completion assurance shall be required in an amount
equal to value of improvements:
      1.   In lieu of the completion of the required improvements within two
(2) years from the date of final approval, the developer shall provide an
improvement completion assurance in an amount equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of the value of the improvements required by this section as estimated
by the city engineer.
      2.   The city may not require an applicant to post an improvement
completion assurance for:
         a.   Public landscaping improvements or an infrastructure improvement
that the city has previously inspected and accepted;
         b.   Infrastructure improvements that are private and not essential or
required to meet the building code, fire code, flood or storm water management
provisions, street and access requirements, or other essential necessary public
safety improvements adopted in a land use regulation;
         c.   Landscaping improvements that are not public landscaping
improvements, unless the landscaping improvements and completion assurance are
required under the terms of a development agreement.
      3.   An improvement completion assurance shall be required, either in the
form of:
         a.   A corporate or property bond, the conditions of which must be
approved by the city attorney; or
         b.   Cash.
   B.   Business License Required: Following a final inspection of the tiny
home park by the building inspector, the owner of the park and the operator of
the park (if different from the owner) shall apply for a city business license.
      1.   It is unlawful to operate a tiny home park without first obtaining a
business license; and
      2.   Such license shall be refused or revoked upon failure of the owner
and/or operator to maintain the park in accordance with the standards and
requirements as herein set forth.
   C.   No tiny home space shall be occupied until all improvements required
under this chapter, or which are shown on the final plat, shall have been
constructed.
   D.   Occupancy shall be by written lease, which lease shall be made
available to the officials of the city upon demand. The terms of such lease
shall be consistent with the declaration of management policies, covenants and
restrictions, as required by this chapter. (Ord. 2024-7, 1-28-2025)
10-17-9: STORAGE OF JUNK, DEBRIS, OR UNLICENSED INOPERABLE VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No yard or other open space surrounding an existing tiny home space
within the tiny home park or which is hereafter provided around any tiny home
within the park, shall be used for the storage of junk, debris or inoperable
vehicles.
   B.   No land within the tiny home park shall be used for the storage of
junk, debris or inoperable vehicles. (Ord. 2024-7, 1-28-2025)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Authority
11-1-2: Intent
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-4: Amendments
11-1-5: Prohibited Acts
11-1-6: Residential Infilling
11-1-7: Common Wall Subdivision
11-1-8: Subdivision Of Agricultural Land
11-1-1: AUTHORITY:
   A.   This title is enacted pursuant to title 10, Utah Code Annotated.
   B.   An approved subdivision plat as specified in this title is required
whenever a landowner splits one lot or parcel of property into two (2) or more
lots or parcels.
   C.   Compliance with Title 11 of city code is required before:
      1.   The subdivision plat may be filed and recorded with the county
recorder, and
      2.   Lots within the subdivision may be sold; and
      3.   The city extends the services of its public facilities to any
subdivision.
   D.   The joining of a lot or lots to a parcel does not constitute a
subdivision as to the parcel or subject the parcel to the city's subdivision
ordinance.
   E.   Combining adjacent lots does not require an amendment to a subdivision
plat.
   F.   The role of the planning commission with respect to ordinances
regulating subdivisions shall be to:
      1.   Review and provide a recommendation to the city on any proposed
ordinances that regulate the subdivision of land within the city;
      2.   Review and make recommendation to the city on any proposed ordinance
that amends the regulation of the subdivision of land within the city;
      3.   Provide notice consistent with Utah public notice requirements as
outlined in Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-602; and
      4.   Hold a public hearing on the proposed ordinance before making a
recommendation to the city.
   G.   The role of the city council with respect to ordinances regulating
subdivisions shall be to:
      1.   Adopt, modify, reverse, or reject an ordinance described in
subsection
11-1-1(F) of this title;
      2.   Consider a planning commission's failure to make a timely
recommendation on ordinances that regulate subdivisions as a negative
recommendation.
      3.   If the city council fails to enact a subdivision ordinance, the city
may regulate subdivisions only to the extent provided in
11-1-1. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-1-2: INTENT:
   A.   The intent of this title shall be to:
      1.   Promote the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the
present and future inhabitants of the city;
      2.   Simplify orderly growth and development of the city; and
      3.   Ease the transfer of land by means of accurate legal descriptions.
   B.   Preservation Of Land: Trees, native land cover, natural watercourses,
and topography shall be preserved when possible, and the subdivision shall be
so designed as to prevent excessive grading and scarring of the landscape in
concordance with the provision of this title. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
It is the intent of the city council to define certain words and phrases as a
means of facilitating understanding of terms which may not be universally
understood in the sense that the city council intends that they should be
understood.
ADMINISTRATIVE An individual, board, or commission, appointed or employed by the city, including city
LAND USE       staff or the city planning commission. It does not include a city council or a member
AUTHORITY:     of the city council.
ASSOCIATION:   A.   Corporation or other legal entity, any member of which (Utah code 57-8a Community
               Association Act):
                 1.   Is an owner of a residential lot located within the jurisdiction of the
               association as described in the governing documents; and
                 2.   By virtue of membership or ownership of a residential lot is obligated to pay:
                    a.   Real property taxes;
                    b.   Insurance premiums;
                    c.   Maintenance costs; or
                    d.   For improvement of real property not owned by the member.
              B.   All of the condominium unit owners (Utah code 57-8 Condominium Ownership Act)
                 1.   Acting as a group in accordance with the association declaration and bylaws; or
                 2.   Organized as a legal entity in accordance with the declaration
BUILDABLE      That portion of a lot which will fit the construction of a structure under the
AREA:          provisions of the building codes adopted by the city and this title, either without
               grading and excavation or with grading and excavation, as specified in this title.
               Until such time as the city hires a permanent registered engineer, the city engineer
CITY ENGINEER: shall be a licensed surveyor, a registered civil engineer, or an engineering firm as
               designated by the city council on either a retainer or per job basis.
COMMON AREA:   Property that an association owns, maintains, repairs, or administers (Utah code 57-8a
               Community Association Act)
COMMON AREA    A.   The land included within the condominium project, whether leasehold or fee simple;
AND
FACILITIES:    B.   The foundations, columns, girders, beams, supports, main walls, roofs, halls,
(Utah Code 57- corridors, lobbies, stairs, stairways, fire escapes, entrances, and exits of the
8 Condominium  building;
Ownership Act)
              C.   The basements, yards, gardens, parking areas, and storage spaces;
              D.   The premises for lodging of janitors or person in charge of the property;
              E.   Installations of central services such as power, light, gas, hot and cold water,
               heating, refrigeration, air conditioning, and incinerating;
              F.   The elevators, tanks, pumps, motors, fans, compressors, ducks, and in general all
               apparatus and installations existing for common use;
              G.   Such community and commercial facilities as may be provided for; and
              H.   All other parts of the property necessary or convenient to its existence,
               maintenance, and safety, or normally in common use.
CUT:           A process of excavation. See definition of Excavation.
               A land use right offered for a specific purpose or use over, upon, or beneath the land;
EASEMENT:      its location and extent being accurately described in the letting process or by
               separate document using metes and bounds; distinct from land ownership and granted to
               the public, a particular party or public utility.
               Any act by which vegetation matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other similar
EXCAVATION:    material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated, or
               bulldozed, and shall include the conditions resulting from it.
FACILITY:      A public service developed, owned, maintained, or authorized by the city (i.e., water,
               sewer, etc.).
              A.   Facility, Water Conveyance:
                  1.   Ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other watercourse used to convey water used
              for irrigation or storm water drainage and any related easement for the ditch, canal,
               flume, pipeline, or other water course, including but not limited to the state
               engineer's inventory of water conveyance systems established by Utah code 735-7.
                  2.   Water conveyance facility does not mean a ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or
              other watercourse used to convey water used for culinary or industrial water, or any
               federal water project facility.
              B.   Facility, Water Conveyance Owner: An individual, entity, mutual water company, or
               unincorporated organization that:
                 1.   Operates a water conveyance facility; or
                 2.   Owns any interest in a water conveyance facility; or
                 3.   Has a property interest in real property based on the presence of the water
               conveyance facility located and operating on the real property.
              C.   Facility, Underground: Personal property that is buried or placed below ground
               level for use in the storage or conveyance of any of the following.
                 1.   Water;
                 2.   Sewage, including sewer laterals;
                 3.   Communications, including electronic, photonic, telephonic, or telegraphic
               communications;
                 4.   Television, cable television, or other telecommunication signals, including
               transmission to subscribers of video or other programming;
                 5.   Electric power;
                 6.   Oil, gas, or other fluid and gaseous substances;
                 7.   Steam;
                 8.   Slurry; or
                 9.   Dangerous materials or products.
FILL:          A deposit of earth material by artificial means.
GRADING:       Any excavating or filling, or combination thereof, and shall include the conditions
               resulting from any excavation or fill.
HILLSIDE AREA: Any lot or parcel with an average slope greater than eight percent (8%).
IMPROVEMENT    A surety bond, letter of credit, financial institution bond, cash, assignment of
COMPLETION     rights, lien, or other equivalent security required by a municipality to guaranty the
ASSURANCE:     proper completion of landscaping or an infrastructure improvement required as a
               condition precedent to:
              A.   Recording a subdivision plat; or
              B.   Development of a commercial, industrial, mixed us, or multi-family project.
INFRASTRUCTURE Permanent infrastructure that is essential for the public health and safety, or that:
IMPROVEMENT:
              A.   Is required for human occupation; and
              B.   An applicant must install
                 1.   In accordance with published installation and inspection specifications for
               public improvements; and
                 2.   Whether the improvement is public or private, as a condition of:
                    a.   Recording a subdivision plat; or
                    b.   Obtaining a building permit; or
                    c.   Development of a commercial, industrial, mixed use, condominium, or multi-
               family project.
INTERNAL LOT   A platted note, platted demarcation, or platted designation that:
RESTRICTION:
              A.   Runs with the land; and
              B.   Establishes:
                 1.   A restriction that is enclosed within the perimeter of a lot described on the
               plat; or
                 2.   A development condition that is enclosed within the perimeter of a lot
               described on the plat.
LOCAL HEALTH   Serves San Juan County and municipalities within the county; or a multicounty health
DEPARTMENT:    department that serves San Juan County; or a united local health department as defined
               in Utah Code 26A-1-102.
LOT:           A tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown on a subdivision
               plat that has been recorded in the office of the county recorder.
              A.   Lot, Area: The total area measured on a horizontal plane included within the lot
               lines of the lot.
               B.   Lot, Width: The distance across a lot of property, measured along a line parallel
              to the front lot line, or parallel to a straight line, connecting the ends of an arc
               which makes up the front lot line.
LOT LINE       A relocation of a lot line boundary between adjoining lots or between a lot and
ADJUSTMENT:    adjoining parcels in accordance with state code Section 10-9a-608:
              A.   Whether or not the lots are located in the same subdivision; and
              B.   With the consent of the owners of record.
              C.   Lot Line Adjustment does not mean a new boundary line that
                 1.   Creates an additional lot; or
                 2.   Constitutes a subdivision or subdivision amendment.
              D.   Lot Line Adjustment does not include a boundary line adjustment made by the
               Department of Transportation.
METES AND      The description of a lot or parcel of land by courses and distances.
BOUNDS:
OFF-SITE       Improvements, as required by this title, installed outside the perimeter of the
IMPROVEMENTS:  subdivision which are designed and located to serve the needs of the subdivision or
               adjacent properties, lying between the subdivision and existing improvements.
ON-SITE        Improvements, as required by this title, installed within or on the perimeter of the
IMPROVEMENTS:  subdivision.
PARCEL:        Any real property that is not a lot.
PERSON:        An individual, corporation, partnership, organization, association, trust, governmental
               agency, or any other legal entity.
PERSONAL       Assets owned, controlled, or managed by a person.
PROPERTY:
               An instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map or other graphical
               representation of land that a licensed professional land surveyor makes and prepares in
PLAT:          accordance with Section
               11-2-3 or
               11-2-4 of city code.
POTENTIAL      An area that:
GEOLOGIC       A.   Is designated by a Utah Geological Survey map, county geologist map, or other
HAZARD AREA:   relevant map or report as needing further study to determine the area's potential for
               geologic hazard; or
               B.   Has not been studied by the Utah Geological Survey or a county geologist but
              presents the potential of geologic hazard because the area has characteristics similar
               to those of a designated geologic hazard area.
PRIVATE DRIVE: An accessway from a city street or highway to private land that does not front a city
               street or highway. A private drive is owned and maintained by the landowner.
PUBLIC         Landscaping that a land use applicant is required to install to comply with published
LANDSCAPING    installation and inspection specifications for public improvements that:
IMPROVEMENT:
              A.   Will be dedicated to and maintained by the city; or
              B.   Are associated with and proximate to trail improvements that connect to planned or
               existing public infrastructure; and for which
              C.   The city has established objective inspection standards for acceptance of a public
               landscaping improvement or infrastructure improvement that the city requires.
               A public right-of-way, including a public highway, public avenue, public boulevard,
               public parkway, public road, public land, public alley, public viaduct, public subway,
               public tunnel, public bridge, public byway, other public transportation easement, or
PUBLIC STREET: other public way. Public street includes the land between street lanes, whether
               improved or unimproved and may comprise pavement, shoulders, gutter, sidewalks, parking
               areas, and other areas within the right of way, and conforms with standards in Title 7
               of city code. For the purpose of this title, streets shall be classified as follows:
              A.   City Street: Any street within the city's incorporated boundary that is recognized
               and maintained by the city.
              B.   Cul-De-Sac: A street open at one end with a designated vehicular turnaround area
               at the closed end.
              C.   Dead End: A street open at one end with no turnaround.
              D.   Major Highway: A major regional highway, including an expressway, freeway or
               interstate highway designed to carry vehicular traffic:
                 1.   Into, out of, or throughout the regional area (inter-region); and
                 2.   From one political subdivision of the region to another, or from an inter-
               regional highway.
              E.   Residential Roadway: A public local residential road that:
                 1.   Will serve primarily to provide access to adjacent primarily residential areas
               and property;
                 2.   Is designed to accommodate minimal traffic volumes or vehicular traffic;
                 3.   Is not identified as a supplementary to a collector or other higher system
               classified street in an approved city street or transportation master plan;
                 4.   Has a posted speed limit of 25 miles per hour or less;
                 5.   Does not have higher traffic volumes resulting from connecting previously
               separated areas of the city road network;
                  6.   Cannot have a primary access, but can have a secondary access, and does not
              abut lots intended to high volume traffic or community centers, including schools,
               recreation centers, sports complexes, or libraries; and
                 7.   Primarily serves traffic within a neighborhood or limited residential area and
               is not necessarily continuous through several residential areas.
               F.   Service Road: A street or road paralleling and abutting major highway to provide
              access to adjacent property so that each adjacent lot or parcel will not have direct
               access to the major highway.
               G.   Stub: A street or road extending from within a subdivision and which terminates at
              the subdivision boundary with no provision for a vehicular turnaround. Stub streets are
               normally required to connect to street systems of adjacent developments.
               The changing or amending of any existing lot or lots of any subdivision plat previously
RESUBDIVISION: recorded in the records of the county recorder as provided in section
               11-5-1 of this title.
REVIEW CYCLE:  The steps required to complete the subdivision review process, including:
              A.   The applicant's submittal of a complete subdivision land use application;
              B.   The city's review of that subdivision land use application;
              C.   The city's response to that subdivision land use application; and
              D.   The applicant's reply to the city's response that addresses each of the city's
               required modifications or request for additional information.
SANITARY SEWER The department, agency, or public entity with responsibility to review and approve the
AUTHORITY:     feasibility of sanitary sewer services or on site wastewater systems.
SITE:          Any lot or parcel of land.
               A preliminary map or preapplication plat, showing the concept of the proposed
SKETCH PLAN:   development or subdivision, having sufficient detail to illustrate on site
               characteristics of the proposed subdivision and adjacent parcels.
SPECIFIED      An electrical corporation, gas corporation, or telephone corporation, as those terms
PUBLIC         are defined in Section 54-2-1 of Utah Code.
UTILITY:
STATE:         Any department, division, or agency of the state.
STREET:        See Public Street
STREET RIGHT   That portion of land dedicated to public use for street and utility purposes.
OF WAY:
               Any person or legal entity laying out or making a land division, amending or
SUBDIVIDER:    resubdividing an existing subdivision for the purpose of sale, offering for sale or
               selling for himself or others, any subdivision or any part of it.
               Any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided into two (2) or more
SUBDIVISION:   lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer,
               sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
               plans, terms, and conditions.
              A.   Subdivision includes
                  1.   The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and bounds
              description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument, regardless of
               whether the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or lot; and
                  2.   Except as provided in B (below), divisions of land for residential and
              nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial, agricultural,
               and industrial purposes.
              B.   Subdivision does not include
                  1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purpose of
              joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of unsubdivided
               agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor the parcel remaining
               from the division or partition violates an applicable land use ordinance.
                  2.   A boundary line agreement recorded with the county recorder's office between
              owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in accordance with
               10-2-4 if no new parcel is created;
                 3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
                    a.   Revising the legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal
               description encompassing all such parcels; or
                    b.   Joining a lot(s) to a parcel.
                  4.   A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided properties
              adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with sections
               10-2-3 and
               10-2-4 if:
                    a.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the adjustment; and
                    b.   The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use ordinance;
                 5.   A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed or other
               instrument states in writing that the division:
                    a.   Is in anticipation of future land use approvals on the parcel or parcels;
                    b.   Does not confer any land use approvals; and
                    c.   Has not been approved by the land use authority.
                 6.   A parcel boundary adjustment;
                 7.   A lot line adjustment;
                 8.   A road, street, or highway dedication plat;
                 9.   A deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
                 10.   Any other division of land authorized by law.
SUBDIVISION    An amendment to a recorded subdivision in accordance with Title 11, Chapter 5 that:
AMENDMENT:
              A.   Vacates all or a portion of the subdivision;
              B.   Alters the outside boundary of the subdivision;
              C.   Changes the number of lots within the subdivision by means other than combining
               lots (see 11-1-E);
              D.   Alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or public infrastructure within
               the subdivision; or
              E.   Alters a common area or other common amenity within the subdivision.
              F.   Subdivision amendment does not include a lot line adjustment, between a single lot
               and an adjoining lot or parcel, that alters the outside boundary of the subdivision.
SUBDIVISION    The civil engineering plans associated with required infrastructure and city-controlled
IMPROVEMENT    utilities required for a subdivision.
PLAN:
SUBDIVISION    Review by the city to verify that a subdivision land use application meets the criteria
ORDINANCE      of the city's subdivision ordinances.
REVIEW:
SUBDIVISION    The city's review of the applicant's subdivision improvement plans and other aspects of
PLAN REVIEW:   the subdivision land use application to verify that the application complies with city
               ordinances and applicable standards and specifications.
SUSPECT SOIL:  Soil that has:
              A.   A High susceptibility for volumetric change, typically clay rich, having more than
               a 3% swell potential;
              B.   Bedrock units with high shrink or swell susceptibility; or
              C.   Gypsiferous silt and clay, gypsum, or bedrock units containing abundant gypsum
               commonly associated with dissolution and collapse features.
VICINITY PLAN: See Sketch Plan
ZONING MAP:    A map, adopted as part of a land use ordinance, that depicts land use zones, overlays,
               or districts. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
 
11-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be made from time to time as it is deemed
necessary and shall comply with section
11-1-2 of this title. (Ord. 2012-01, 7-10-2012; amd. ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-1-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   A person may not submit a subdivision plat to the county recorder's
office for recording unless the plat has been prepared and approved according
to Title 11, Chapter 2 Subdivision Approval and Platting Process.
      1.   A subdivision plat recorded without the signatures required under
Title 11 of city code is void.
      2.   Transfer of land pursuant to a void plat is voidable by the city.
   B.   Sale or transfer of land prior to approval of final plat:
      1.   If a subdivision requires a plat, an owner of any land located in a
subdivision who transfers or sells any land in that subdivision before a plat
of the subdivision has been approved and recorded violates this part for each
lot or parcel transferred or sold.
      2.   A violation of Subsection B(1) is an infraction.
   C.   The description by metes and bounds in an instrument of transfer or
other documents used in the process of selling or transferring does not exempt
the transaction from being a violation of Subsection (B)(1) or from the
penalties or remedies provided in this chapter.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provision of Subsection (B), the recording of
an instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or
transferring real property that violates this part:
      1.   Does not affect the validity of the instrument or other document;
and
      2.   Does not affect whether the property that is the subject of the
instrument or other document complies with applicable city ordinances on land
use and development.
   E.   The city may bring an action against an owner to require the property
to conform to the provisions of this part or an ordinance enacted under the
authority of this part.
      1.   An action under this Subsection (E) may include an injunction or any
other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent or enjoin the violation.
      2.   The city need only establish the violation to obtain the injunction.
(Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-1-6: RESIDENTIAL INFILLING:
   A.   All of the following requirements must be met in order to be considered
residential infilling.
      1.   All created lots or parcels must front an existing city street, and
have at least eighty feet (80') of frontage on said street; and
      2.   All created lots or parcels must meet the minimum square footage
requirements of ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   B.   If the creation of multiple parcels requires the creation of a new
street or private drive to access any of the parcels, residential infilling
will not be allowed and the subdivision code must be followed.
   C.   If no utilities are present on the existing city street on which the
proposed infill would occur then the residential infilling will not be allowed
and the subdivision code must be followed. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-1-7: COMMON WALL SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this title shall be to allow a business owner
to purchase a portion of a building, causing a subdivision within an existing
property/structure.
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   The purchase shall include the portion of the building and the
property on which it sits.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall review a subdivision application
submitted by the subdivision requestor along with a plat map showing legal
ownership, legal description and survey of proposed subdivision, townsite
block, and surrounding streets.
      3.   Common Wall Agreement: A signed agreement shall be presented to the
Planning Commission as follows:
         a.   Definition of properties to include legal survey and legal
description of proposed subdivision;
         b.   Establishment of Common Facilities;
         c.   Repair and Maintenance;
         d.   Maintenance of Non-Common Areas;
         e.   No Right of Modification/Alteration;
         f.   Covenant Running with the Land;
         g.   Restriction on Amendment to this Agreement;
         h.   Lien Rights;
         i.   Maintenance and Repair of Individual Conjoining Property;
         j.   Insurance;
         k.   Cross-Easement;
         l.   Common Wall;
         m.   Power of Attorney;
         n.   Limitations of Use; and
         o.   Attorney Fees.
      4.   The Planning Commission shall consider recommendation of the
requested subdivision to the Monticello City Council for final approval. (Ord.
2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-1-8: SUBDIVISION OF AGRICULTURAL LAND:
   A.   A lot or parcel resulting from a division of agricultural land is
exempt from plat requirements of Title 11 Chapter 2 if the lot or parcel:
      1.   Qualified as land in the A-1 Agricultural zone;
      2.   Meets the minimum size requirement of applicable land use
ordinances; and
      3.   Is not used and will not be used for any non-agricultural purpose.
   B.   The boundaries of each lot or parcel exempted under subsection A shall
be graphically illustrated on a record of survey map that:
      1.   Shall receive the same approvals as required for a plat under Title
11 Chapter 2; and
      2.   Is or shall be recorded with the county recorder.
   C.   If a lot or parcel exempted in subsection A is used for a non-
agricultural purpose the city shall require the lot or parcel to comply with
the requirements of Title 11 Chapter 2 of city code.
   D.   Documents recorded in the county recorder's office that divide property
by a metes and bounds description do not create an approved subdivision allowed
by Title 11 unless the city's certificate or written approval as required in
subsection A is attached to the document.
   E.   The absence of the certificate or written approval required in
subsection A does not:
      1.   Prohibit the county recorder from recording a document; or
      2.   affect the validity of a recorded document.
   F.   A document which does not meet the requirements of subsection A may be
corrected by the recording of an affidavit to which the required certificate or
written approval is attached. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL AND PLATTING PROCESS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Procedure For Approval
11-2-2: Sketch Plan
11-2-3: Preliminary Plat
11-2-4: Final Plat
11-2-5: Exemption From Plat Requirement
11-2-6: Failure To Comply
11-2-1: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   All subdivision codes must be adhered to and followed whenever a
property owner splits one (1) parcel or lot into two (2) or more parcels or
lots.
   B.   Before beginning work on or recording any subdivision a subdivider
shall request a pre-application meeting with the city zoning administrator.
Within fifteen (15) days of the request, the city zoning administrator shall
schedule the pre-application meeting to discuss:
      1.   The type of subdivision proposed;
      2.   Provide a subdivision plat land use application form;
      3.   Provide and discuss existing zoning regulations and zoning map for
the area in which the subdivision is proposed;
      4.   If the proposal includes single-family, two-family, or townhomes,
provide copies of Title 11 and checklists for preliminary and final plat
approvals; and
   C.   Unless the proposed subdivision meets one of the following criteria,
the subdivider shall follow the process set forth in this title.
      1.   If the proposed subdivision meets the requirements for residential
infill the subdivider shall conform with the requirements at
11-1-6 Residential Infill of this title.
      2.   If the proposed subdivision meets the requirements of a common wall
subdivision the subdivider shall conform with the requirements at
11-1-7 Common Wall Subdivision of this title.
      3.   If the proposed subdivision meets the requirements of a planned unit
development (PUD), the subdivider shall conform with the requirements at Title
10 Chapter 14 Planned Unit Development.
      4.   If the proposed subdivision is a division of agricultural land, the
subdivider shall conform with the requirements at
11-1-8 Subdivision of Agricultural Land of this title.
   D.   Before beginning work on or recording any subdivision, a subdivider
shall request to meet with the planning commission no less than thirty (30)
days prior to the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting for a
review and discussion of: 1. The subdivision plat land use application form
prepared in conformance with
11-2-1(B) of this title.
      2.   A sketch plan of the proposed subdivision as required in section
11-2-2 of this title.
      3.   The intent of this meeting is to provide a mutual exchange of
information that will help avoid future problems and misunderstandings
   E.   City to Notify Water Conveyance Facility Owner.
      1.   Within twenty (20) days of receiving a completed plat land use
application and sketch plan, the city shall provide written notice of the
proposed subdivision to the facility owner of any water convenance facility
located entirely or partially within one hundred feet (100') of the
subdivision, as determined using information made available to the city:
         a.   From the facility owner using mapping-grade global positioning
satellite units or digitized data from the most recent aerial photo available
to the facility owner;
         b.   In the state engineer's inventory of canals; or
         c.   From a surveyor.
      2.   The city shall not approve the subdivision plat for at least twenty
(20) days after the day on which the city mails to each facility owner the
notice required in
11-2-1(B)(4), in order to receive any comments from each facility owner
regarding:
         a.   Access to the water conveyance facility;
         b.   Maintenance of the water conveyance facility;
         c.   Protection of the water conveyance facility;
         d.   Safety of the water conveyance facility; or
         e.   Any other issue related to water conveyance facility operations.
      3.   When applicable, the owner of the land seeking subdivision plat
approval shall comply with Utah Code annotated 73-1-15.5, Relocation of
easements for a water conveyance facility.
      4.   The facility owner's failure to provide comments to the city in
accordance with this section does not affect or impair the city's authority to
approve the subdivision plat.
   F.   Submit Preliminary Plat: The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary
plat of the proposed subdivision following the requirements at subsection
11-2-3(A) and submit the preliminary plat and documents required by subsection
11-2-3(B) to the planning commission for review. The planning commission may
require changes as allowed in subsection
11-2-3(C) of this title.
   G.   Submit Final Plat: The subdivider shall prepare a final plat of the
subdivision following the requirements at section
11-2-4, Final Plat and submit the final plat to the planning commission.
   H.   IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE: The subdivider shall post an
improvement completion assurance as required by section 11-4, Subdivision
Improvements. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-2-2: SKETCH PLAN:
   A.   The subdivider shall prepare a sketch plan on 8-1/2 x 11-inch paper
(multiple sheets accepted) with a bar scale and which displays the following
characteristics of the proposed subdivision and abutting lots, parcels, or
streets:
      1.   Existing vegetation;
      2.   Topography and north arrow;
      3.   Existing Buildings and Structures;
      4.   Recorded Road and Utility Easements;
      5.   Existing and proposed public Streets;
      6.   Drainage corridors;
      7.   Existing above ground and below ground utility lines;
      8.   Existing land uses; and
      9.   Proposed subdivision layout.
   B.   Where the sketch submitted covers only one phase of a subdivider's
proposed subdivision, a separate sketch map shall show the proposed street
system for the entire area to be subdivided and the intersections with existing
city streets. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   The preliminary plat shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   A title block shall be located in the lower right-hand corner of the
sheet, and contain the following information:
         a.   The proposed name of the subdivision, which shall be distinct
from any subdivision name on a plat recorded in the county recorder's office;
         b.   The location of the subdivision, including the address, section,
township and range;
         c.   The names and addresses of the owner, or subdivider if other than
the owner, and the surveyor of the subdivision; and
         d.   Date of preparation, scale (not greater than fifty (50) feet to
the inch), and north point.
      2.   The preliminary plat shall show:
         a.   Existing Conditions:
            (1)   The location of the nearest benchmark or monument;
            (2)   The boundary, length, and width of the proposed subdivision
and the acreage included;
            (3)   All property under the control of the subdivider within and
abutting the proposed subdivision;
            (4)   The location, width, and names of all existing streets and
future road corridors within four hundred fifty feet (450') of the subdivision.
Also, all prior platted streets or other public open spaces, permanent
easements and sections, and corporation lines, within and next to the tract;
            (5)   The location of all wells proposed, active, and abandoned,
and of all reservoirs within the tract and to a distance of at least two
hundred feet (200') beyond the tract boundaries;
            (6)   Rights-of-way and recorded easements within and to a distance
of at least two hundred feet (200') beyond the tract boundaries showing pipe
sizes and grades, manholes, and exact locations for existing:
               (A)   Water conveyance facilities;
               (B)   Underground facilities; and
               (C)   Any other utility facility;
            (7)   Any water convenance facility located, entirely or partially,
within the proposed subdivision that:
               (A)   Is not recorded; and
               (B)   Of which the owner of the land has actual or constructive
knowledge, including from information made available to the owner of the land
by the state engineer's inventory of canals or from a surveyor.
            (8)   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided land,
showing ownership where possible; and
            (9)   Contour at vertical intervals of not more than two feet (2').
High water levels of all watercourses, if any, shall be shown in the same datum
for contour elevations.
         b.   Proposed development:
            (1)   The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other
dimensions of proposed streets, crosswalks, alleys and easements, designated by
actual or proposed names and numbers.
               (A)   Street names shall comply with title 7 chapter 4 of city
code;
               (B)   Joining of proposed streets with existing streets shall
serve as a continuation of existing streets from adjoining areas; From
11-3-3;
               (C)   Design, placement, and layout of streets shall meet
minimum standards a of section
11-3-3.
            2)   The layout, numbers and typical dimensions of lots, blocks, or
buildings.
               (A)   All lots shall front on a city street;
               (B)   Lot numbers or addresses shall comply with title 7 chapter
4 of city code;
               (C)   Dimensions shall include length, width, and acreage or
square footage for each lot and block intended for sale;
               (D)   Lot sizes and widths shall conform with the minimum
requirements of the zone in which the subdivision is located. Lots below
minimum size left from subdividing a larger tract shall be redrawn to be
attached to an abutting lot and become part of the abutting lot;
               (E)   Where the land covered by a subdivision includes two (2)
or more parcels in separate ownership and the lot arrangement is such that a
property ownership line divides one or more lots, the land in each lot so
divided shall be transferred by deed to single ownership before approval of the
final plat, and such transfer recorded in the county recorder's office before
being certified to the planning commission by the subdivider.
            (3)   Size of blocks.
               (A)   Length: The maximum length of a block shall be one
thousand two hundred feet (1,200') and the minimum length of a block shall be
two hundred fifteen feet (215');
               (B)   Width: The width of a block shall be sufficient to allow
two (2) tiers of lots.
            (4)   Tracts of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily
reserved for public use or set aside for use of property owners in the
subdivision.
            (5)   Building setback lines as required by the zone in which the
subdivision is located.
            (6)   Easements for water, sewer, drainage, utility lines and other
purposes shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in width (see subsection
11-3-3(D)).
            (7)   If a proposed subdivision or lots within a proposed
subdivision include a drainage corridor recognized in title 10, chapter 12,
Overlay Zones, an engineering drawing shall be prepared to show how the
function of the corridor will be protected.
   B.   In addition to the preliminary plat requirements at subsection
11-2-3(A), the subdivider shall provide:
      1.   Title Report documenting ownership of land included within the
proposed subdivision.
      2.   For residential development the subdivider shall provide proof of
ownership of irrigation water shares for deeding to city:
         a.   Any subdivider who owns water rights to irrigation water shares
not already vested in the city corporation, shall deed to the city water shares
equivalent to forty-five hundredth (0.45) acre-foot of water per year for each
dwelling unit to be constructed. Such water shares shall be used for conversion
to the culinary water system of the city as it is deemed necessary;
         b.   Any subdivider who does not own irrigation water shares must
purchase the equivalent shares and deed them to the city; and
         c.   If no water rights are immediately available for purchase, the
subdivider shall pay to the city an amount equal to the market value of said
water shares and, as such time as water stock becomes available, the city shall
purchase the equivalent shares.
      3.   For commercial or industrial development, the proponent shall
provide proof of ownership of water rights to irrigation water shares not
already vested in the city corporation and shall deed to the city water shares
as required by the Utah Division of Water Rights for the type of commercial or
industrial development proposed. Such water shares shall be used for conversion
to the culinary water system of the city as it is deemed necessary.
      4.   Copies of any agreements with adjacent property owners relevant to
the proposed subdivision shall be presented to the planning commission.
      5.   Preliminary engineering drawings, including typical cross sections
and plans, and/or written statements regarding width and type of proposed off-
site and on-site water mains, sanitary sewers, drainage facilities and other
proposed improvements, such as streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, parks, and
fire hydrants.
      6.   Preliminary grading and drainage plans, as required by the city
engineer, showing existing grades with solid line contours and proposed grades
superimposed with dashed line contours. However, plans in all hillside area
subdivisions shall also show:
         a.   Areas with eight percent (8%) or greater natural slope by cross
hatching; and
         b.   The location of proposed cuts and fills.
      7.   Environmental impact statement, when required by the city engineer,
shall be prepared indicating or describing the measures that will be taken for;
         a.   Control of erosion within the subdivided area;
         b.   Reseeding of cuts and fills;
         c.   Disposition of any geologic hazard and/or soil conditions which
may cause injury or damage to improvements which may be constructed on the
subdivision such as buildings, water and sewer lines and streets;
         d.   Prevention of fire and control of dust;
         e.   Prevention of accumulation of weeds and debris;
         f.   Disposal of surface water and disposition of flood hazards; and
         g.   Preservation of natural drainage channels.
   C.   Amendments May Be Required:
      1.   Prior To Approval: Before approving a preliminary plat of a
subdivision, the planning commission may require amendments or modification of
the plan, including requiring:
         a.   Additional information relating to an applicant's plans to ensure
compliance with city ordinances and approved standards and specifications for
construction of public improvements; and
         b.   Modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances,
applicable standards or specifications, or do not contain complete information.
         c.   The city's request for additional information or modifications
shall be specific and include citations to ordinances, standards, or
specifications that require the modifications to plans, and shall be logged in
an index of requested modifications or additions.
      2.   Conform To Requirements: The subdivider shall make such amendments
or modifications to the satisfaction of the planning commission and sufficient
in all cases to correct the inadequacies so that the subdivision will conform
to the requirements of this title.
   D.   Approval Of Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Review:
         a.   The subdivider shall provide six (6) copies of the preliminary
plat for use by the city in its review of the proposed subdivision.
         b.   Within fifteen (15) business days after the day on which an
applicant submits a complete preliminary subdivision land use application for a
residential subdivision for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or
townhomes the administrative land use authorities shall complete the initial
review of the application including subdivision improvement plans.
         c.   Within thirty (30) business days after the day on which an
applicant submits a complete preliminary subdivision land use application for
commercial or industrial development the administrative land use authorities
shall complete the initial review of the application including subdivision
improvement plans.
         d.   As part of the review cycle the planning commission may:
            (1)   Receive public input in a public meeting;
            (2)   Hold one public hearing;
            (3)   Request additional information from the subdivider; or
            (4)   Review the preliminary plan at the staff level.
            (5)   No more than four review cycles may be required unless:
               (A)   A modification or correction is necessary to protect
public health and safety or to enforce state or federal law.
               (B)   Subject to subsection
11-2-3(D)(1)(d)(5)(i), a change or correction is necessitated by the
applicant's adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phasing plan that
adjusts the infrastructure needed for the specific development.
               (C)   An applicant makes a material change to a plan set, in
which case the city has the discretion to restart the review process at the
first review of the final application, but only with respect to the portion of
the plan set that the materials change substantively effects.
            (6)   If the applicant does not submit a revised plan within twenty
(20) business days after the city requires modification or correction, the city
shall have an additional twenty (20) business days to respond to the plans.
            (7)   Except as indicated in subsection
11-2-3(D)(1)(5) above, after the applicant has responded to the final review
cycle and has complied with each modification requested by the city's previous
review cycle, the city may not require additional reviews if the applicant has
not materially changed the plan other than changes that were in response to
requested modifications or corrections.
            (8)   The applicant's response to city's requested modifications or
corrections shall include:
               (A)   A written explanation in response to the city's review
comments, identifying and explaining the applicant's revisions and reasons for
declining to made revisions, if any; and
               (B)   The applicant's written explanation shall be comprehensive
and specific, including citations to applicable standards and ordinances for
the design and an index of requested revisions or additions for each required
correction.
               (C)   If an applicant fails to address a review comment in the
response, the review cycle is not complete and the subsequent review cycle may
not begin until all comments are addressed.
         e.   If upon the fourth or final review the city fails to respond
within twenty (20) business days, the city shall, upon request of the property
owner and within ten (10) business days after the request is received:
            (1)   For disputes arising from the subdivision improvement plan,
assemble an appeal panel in according with Utah code subsection 10-9a-508(5)(d)
to review and approve or deny the final revised set of plans; or
            (2)   For disputes arising from the subdivision ordinance review,
advise the applicant in writing of the deficiency in the application and of the
right to appeal the determination to a designated appeal authority.
         f.   Following review and if the preliminary plat complies with
requirements in this section, the planning commission will approve the
preliminary subdivision application.
         g.   The planning commission shall not approve the plat until
signature acceptance is received from each of the interested administrative
land use authorities.
      2.   Copies Of Plat Forwarded:
         a.   If the preliminary plat is recommended for approval, the planning
commission shall return one copy of the plat signed by the planning commission
chairman to the subdivider with any conditions attached.
         b.   Other signed copies shall be forwarded to each of the interested
authorities.
         c.   One (1) signed copy shall be retained in the office of the city
recorder/clerk.
         d.   The planning commission shall retain one (1) signed copy of the
plat for its files.
         e.   If the preliminary plat is recommended for disapproval, the
planning commission shall indicate its disapproval by distributing signed
copies of the plat to the subdivider and interested authorities bearing the
reasons for disapproval.
      3.   Limits on Signature Authority: The city shall not require that a
plat be approved or signed by a person or entity who:
         a.   Is not an employee or agent of the city;
         b.   Does not have a legal or equitable interest in the property
within the proposed subdivision;
         c.   Does not provide a utility or other service directly to a lot
within the subdivision;
         d.   Does not own an easement or right-of-way adjacent to the proposed
subdivision who signs for the purpose of confirming the accuracy of the
location of the easement or right-of-way in relation to the plat; or
         e.   Does not provide culinary public water service whose source
protection zone is included, in whole or in part, within the proposed
subdivision.
      4.   City to Maintain and Publish Certain Items: The city shall maintain
and publish a list of the items comprising the complete preliminary subdivision
land use application, including:
         a.   The;
         b.   The owner's affidavit;
         c.   An electronic copy of all plans in PDF format;
         d.   The preliminary subdivision plat drawing; and
         e.   A breakdown of fees due upon approval of the application.
      5.   Receipt of a signed copy of an approved preliminary plat shall be
authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of plans and
specifications required by this title in preparation of the final plat.
   E.   Duration Of Preliminary Approval:
      1.   Maximum Period Valid: Approval of the preliminary plat by the
planning commission shall be valid for a maximum period of twelve (12) months.
After approval and upon application from the developer, the planning commission
may grant an extension.
      2.   If the final plat has not been recorded within the twelve (12) month
period, or granted extension, the preliminary plat must again be submitted to
the city council or planning commission for reapproval.
      3.   Large Tract Extension: Preliminary approval of a large tract shall
not be voided if the final plat of the first phase is submitted for final
approval within one year and an extension of time is granted as to the
remainder thereof. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-2-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Approval Required Prior To Recording: No plat shall be recorded or
offered for record, nor shall any land be offered for sale with reference to
such a plat until said plat has been so approved in writing and recorded.
   B.   Form: A final plat shall be prepared by a certified land surveyor on
all subdivisions.
      1.   Said plat shall consist of a sheet of mylar, having outside or trim
line dimensions of twenty-four inches by thirty-six inches (24" x 36").
      2.   The border line of the plat shall be drawn in heavy lines, leaving a
margin of at least one and one-half inches (1-1/2") on the left-hand side of
the sheet.
      3.   The plat shall be so drawn that the top of the sheet either faces
north or east, whichever accommodates the drawings best.
      4.   All lines, dimensions and markings shall be made on the mylar, with
approved waterproof drawing ink or equivalent. Details and workmanship on
finished drawings shall be neat, clean cut, and readable. A poorly drawn or
illegible plat is sufficient cause for rejection.
      5.   Certification blocks that include:
         a.   A licensed land surveyor's "certificate of survey";
         b.   The owner's "certificate of dedication";
         c.   A notary public's "acknowledgment";
         d.   The city planning commission's "certificate of approval";
         e.   The city engineer's "certificate of approval";
         f.   The city attorney's "certificate of approval";
         g.   The city council's "certificate of approval"; and
         h.   A one and one-half inch by five-inch (1-1/2" x 5") space in the
lower right-hand corner of the drawing for the county recorder's use.
   C.   Content: The final plat shall show:
      1.   The name of the subdivision, which name must be approved by the
planning commission;
      2.   Accurate angular and linear dimensions for all lines, angles and
curves used to describe boundaries, streets, easements, areas to be reserved
for public use and other important features. All dimensions shall be determined
by an accurate field survey which shall balance and close within a limit of one
in ten thousand (1 in 10,000) feet;
      3.   An identification system for all lots, blocks and names of streets.
Lot lines shall show dimensions in feet and hundredths;
      4.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments, which shall be accurately described in the plat and shown
by appropriate symbol. Basis for bearings used shall be clearly stated;
      5.   Total dimensions of all lines, whether curved or straight, including
lengths, bearings, radii, chords, internal angles, and location of points of
curvature;
      6.   The accurate location of all monuments to be installed shown by the
appropriate symbol. All United States, state, county, or other official
benchmarks, monuments or triangulation stations, in or adjacent to the
property, shall be preserved in precise position;
      7.   The dedication to the public of all streets and highways included in
the proposed subdivision;
         a.   Street monuments shall be installed by the subdivider's land
surveyor at such points designated on the final plat as required by the city
engineer. Standard precast monuments will be furnished by the subdivider and
must be placed prior to the release of the improvement bond.
         b.   The city shall not accept or maintain streets or public ways
unless said streets have been constructed in accordance with standards and
specifications which have been adopted by the city council.
      8.   Pipes or iron rod markers shall be placed at each lot corner;
      9.   Location of all planned stubs or service tees to each lot for
culinary and secondary water connections and sewer connections.
      10.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed or covenant for common uses of all property
owners; and
      11.   Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property
controlled by a public agent or utility company, approval for the location,
improvement and maintenance of such streets shall be obtained from the public
agency or utility company and entered on the final plat in a form approved by
the city attorney.
   D.   Amendments May Be Required:
      1.   Prior To Approval: Before approving a final plat of a subdivision,
the planning commission may require amendments or modification of the plan if
it finds that: a. The layout of the subdivision does not conform to acceptable
standards of design as set forth in this title;
         b.   The subdivision is not provided with adequate ingress or egress;
         c.   The subdivision contains geologic, soil, water, or other hazards,
which would be detrimental to the subdivision surrounding area, or to the city.
         d.   The subdivision does not provide the required improvements or
quality of improvements or does not comply with other requirements as set forth
in city code; and
         e.   The dimensions of the subdivision or any lot do not
mathematically close.
      2.   Conform To Requirements: The subdivider shall make such amendments
or modifications to the satisfaction of the planning commission and sufficient
in all cases to correct the inadequacies so that the subdivision will conform
to the requirements of this title.
   E.   Approval of Final Plat:
      1.   Subdivider supplied documents.
         a.   Within one (1) year after the approval of the preliminary plat,
or within the time for which an extension to make such filing has been granted,
the preliminary plat and two (2) mylar originals of the final plat shall be
submitted for review; one of which will be retained for the city files, the
other will be returned to the subdivider.
         b.   Submittal of an up to date abstract or policy of title insurance
shall be submitted to the city prior to final plat approval.
         c.   A statement that all taxes or special assessments payable on all
property within the limits of the subdivision are paid in full.
         d.   An itemized estimate of the cost of all proposed or required
improvements, including labor and material.
         e.   One copy of any proposed restrictive covenants in final form and
signed by all of the owners of any interest in the subdivision who signed the
final plat This copy shall be acknowledged by a notary public and shall be
recorded in the office of the county recorder along with the final plat.
      2.   Filing Fee: There shall be a city filing fee and inspection fee for
the filing of a final plat of a subdivision, which shall be borne by the
subdivider, and paid to the city in accordance with the provisions of title 11,
chapter 6 and title 1, chapter 7, Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      3.   When the subdivider has supplied the required materials and paid the
city filing fee.
         a.   For a subdivision containing single-family dwellings, two-family
dwellings, or townhomes, the review shall be conducted no later than twenty
(20) business days from the date the city receives the required materials and
filing fee.
         b.   For all other subdivisions, including those for commercial or
industrial purposes, the review shall be conducted no later than thirty (30)
business days from the date the city receives the required materials and filing
fee.
      4.   After reviewing the planning, the commission shall make a
recommendation to the city council for approval of the final plat if all
conditions of title 11 and applicable city code have been satisfied.
      5.   After receiving recommendations from the planning commission and
approvals as required in subsection
11-2-4(E)(3), the city council shall approve the final plat.
   F.   Recordation of Final Plat:
      1.   Following city council approval of the final plat, the subdivider
shall:
         a.   Present to the county recorder the final mylar plat, bearing all
required signatures, and pay all recording fees; or
         b.   Present to the county recorder the final plat in electronic
format as required at Utah code Title 17 Chapter 21a Uniform Real Property
Electronic Recording Act, and pay all recording fees.
      2.   The subdivider shall file with the city recorder:
         a.   One paper copy of the signed final plat bearing the county
recorder's stamp; and
         b.   A copy of the final plat in electronic format as required at Utah
Code Title 17 Chapter 21a Uniform Real Property Electronic Recording Act and
city code
11-2-4(G).
      3.   The city council approval of the final plat shall be void if not
recorded within one year after the date of approval, unless application for an
extension of time is made in writing to the planning commission and granted
during the one (1) year period.
   G.   City to Submit Data to Utah Geospatial Resource Center:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after approving the final plat under this
section the city shall submit to the Utah Geospatial Resource Center:
         a.   An electronic copy of the approved plat; or
         b.   Preliminary geospatial data that depict any new streets and situs
addresses proposed for construction within the bounds of the approved plat.
      2.   If requested by the Utah Geospatial Resource Center, the city shall:
         a.   Coordinate with the Utah Geospatial Resource Center to validate
the information described in subsection
11-2-5(G)(1); and
         b.   Assist the Utah Geospatial Resource Center in creating electronic
files that contain the information described in subsection
11-2-5(G)(1) for inclusion in the unified statewide 911 emergency service
database. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-2-5: EXEMPTION FROM PLAT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   A lot or parcel resulting from a division of agricultural land is
exempt from the plat requirements of this chapter if:
      1.   The parcel qualifies as land in the A-1 Agricultural-Residential
Zone;
      2.   Meets the minimum size requirements of the A-1 Agricultural-
Residential Zone; and
      3.   The lot or parcel is not used and will not be used for any non-
agricultural purpose.
   B.   If a lot or parcel resulting from a division of agricultural land is or
will be used for non- agricultural purposes, the subdivider will comply with
all the requirements in title 11 of city code.
   C.   The boundaries of each lot or parcel exempted under subsection
11-2-5(A) shall be graphically illustrated on a record of survey map that has
been approved as required for a plat under title 11, chapter 2.
   D.   The graphically illustrated record of survey map shall be recorded by
the subdivider with the county recorder.
   E.   Documents recorded in the county recorder's office that divide a
property by a metes and bounds description do not create an approved
subdivision allowed by this title unless the city's certificate or written
approval is attached to the document and includes:
      1.   The city's affidavit that public notice was provided as required by
ordinance; and
      2.   The proposed subdivision:
         a.   Is not traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed street as
shown in the general plan unless the city has approved the location and
dedication of any public street, city utility easement, and other easement, or
any other land for public purposes as required by city code;
         b.   Has been approved by the culinary water authority and the
sanitary sewer authority;
         c.   Is located in a zoned area; and
         d.   Conforms to all applicable land use ordinances or has properly
received a variance from the requirements of an otherwise conflicting and
applicable land use ordinance.
   F.   The absence of the certificate or written approval required in
subsection
11-2-5(E) does not:
      1.   Prohibit the county recorder from recording the document; or
      2.   Affect the validity of a recorded document.
   G.   A document which does not meet the requirements of subsection
11-2-5(E) may be corrected by the recording of an affidavit to which the
required certificate or written approval is attached. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-2-6: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   A person may not submit a subdivision plat to the county recorder's
office for recording unless:
      1.   The person has complied with the requirements of title 11 of city
code;
      2.   The plat has been approved by:
         a.   The land use authority of the municipality in which the land
described in the plat is located; and
         b.   Other officers that the municipality designates in its ordinance;
      3.   All approvals described in Subsection (A)(2) are entered in writing
on the plat by the designated officers; and
      4.   If the person submitting the plat intends the plat to be or if the
plat is part of a community association subject to Utah Code Title 57, Chapter
8a, Community Association Act, the plat includes language conveying to the
association, as that term is defined in Section 57-8a-102, all common areas, as
that term is defined in Section 57-8a-102.
   B.   A subdivision plat recorded without the signatures required under this
section is void.
   C.   A transfer of land pursuant to a void plat is voidable by the land use
authority. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-3-1: General Standards
11-3-2: Street Standards
11-3-3: Common Area Parcels On A Plat
11-3-4: Cuts In Pavement
11-3-5: Development Standards
11-3-6: Private Roads And Driveways
11-3-7: Water And Sewer
11-3-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   The design and development of subdivisions shall preserve, insofar as
it is possible, trees, native land cover, natural watercourses, topography,
existing topsoil, and vegetation.
   B.   The standards of construction of all buildings, structures, utilities,
streets, and sidewalks:
      1.   Shall conform to the building codes and standards of street
construction adopted by the city-and
      2.   Are subject to inspections and permits as authorized in
11-6-2 Enforcement of Title.
   C.   Where the city engineer has determined that land is subject to
hazardous conditions such as landslides, mudflows, rock falls, snow avalanches,
suspect soils, ground subsidence, shallow water table, open quarries, floods,
and polluted water supply, said lands shall not be subdivided until the city
engineer determines that:
      1.   The hazards have been eliminated; or
      2.   Evidence submitted that the said hazards will be eliminated by the
subdivision and construction plans as required by
11-2-3(B).
   D.   All cut and fill slopes shall be reseeded and/or planted with
vegetation as required by the city engineer or as stipulated in the
environmental impact statement required by
11-2-3(B).
   E.   The cost of improvements which are required under the provisions of
this title, as well as the cost of other improvements which the developer may
install, shall be at the expense of the developer.
   F.   Completion Of Infrastructure Required:
      1.   Sale of any lot or occupancy of any home shall not be permitted
until infrastructure has been completed and the city engineer has signed a
statement certifying that:
         a.   The improvements described in the subdivider's plans and
specifications have been completed, including any required public landscaping
improvement or infrastructure improvements; and
         b.   The improvements comply with the recommendations of the planning
commission, culinary water authority, fire authority, and sanitary sewer
authority and, if requested, the local health department, and/or the public
safety authority; and
      2.   The improvements comply with the standards, rules and regulations
for subdivisions approved by the City Council, which standards, rules and
regulations are hereby incorporated in this title by reference. If all
improvements are not completed as scheduled and intended, the subdivider shall
provide an improvement completion assurance and bond as required by 11-4 of
this title before the sale of any lot or occupancy of any home will be
authorized by the city. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-3-2: STREET STANDARDS:
   A.   All designs shall conform to the American Public Works Association
(APWA) standards as required by Title 7 of city code.
   B.   Construction of all streets shall conform to standards in Title 7 of
city code.
   C.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall be used only where unusual drainage or
land ownership configurations exist which make other designs undesirable.
      1.   Each cul-de-sac shall have a minimum hard surface width of twenty-
four feet (24') and a minimum right-of-way width of not less than thirty-four
feet (34').
      2.   Cul-De-Sacs shall have a maximum length of four hundred feet (400')
and must be terminated by a turnaround of not less than one hundred twenty feet
(120') in diameter.
      3.   Surface water must drain away from the turnaround, except where due
to the grade surface, water cannot be drained along the street away from the
turnaround. In such cases necessary catch basins, drain lines and drainage
easements shall be provided.
   D.   Utility Easements:
      1.   Utility corridor easements of not less than ten feet (10') shall be
required where necessary for poles, wire, conduits, storm or sanitary sewers,
gas and water mains and other public utilities'
      2.   Easements of greater width may be required along property lines
where necessary for surface overflow or for the extension of main sewers or
similar utilities.
      3.   The location of said easements shall be as shown on the final plat.
   E.   Street Intersections: Streets shall intersect each other as nearly as
possible at right angles. City streets shall approach other city streets at an
angle of not less than eighty degrees (80°). Offsets in street alignment
between ten feet (10') and one hundred twenty feet (120') shall be prohibited.
   F.   Street Grades: Minimum street grades shall be four-tenths of one
percent (0.4%) and maximum street grades shall be twelve percent (12%).
   G.   Corner Returns: Curbs at all intersections shall be rounded with curves
having a minimum radius of twelve feet (12') measured to the back of curb and
gutter.
   H.   Street Dedications:
      1.   A plat that is signed, dedicated, and acknowledged by each owner of
record, and approved according to the procedures specified in Title 11 of city
code, operates when recorded as a dedication of all public streets and other
public places, and vests the fee of those parcels of land in the city for the
public for the uses named or intended in the plat.
      2.   The dedication established by this section does not impose liability
upon the city for public streets and other public places that are dedicated in
this manner but are unimproved unless:
         a.   Adequate financial assurance has been provided in accordance with
this chapter; and
         b.   The city has accepted the dedication.
   I.   Streetlights: Streetlights within subdivisions shall be required at all
intersections, and at any point where there is a change in direction of the
road, and at a distance of no more than four hundred feet (400') apart.
   J.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be placed at a distance of no more
than five hundred feet (500') apart. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-3-3: COMMON AREA PARCELS ON A PLAT:
   A.   As used in this section:
      1.   "Declarant" means the same as that term is defined in: (i) regarding
a common area, Section 57-8a-102; and (ii) regarding a common area and
facility, Section 57-8-3 of state code.
      2.   "Declaration," regarding a common area and facility, means the same
as that term is defined in Section 57-8-3 of state code.
      3.   "Period of administrative control" means the same as that term is
defined in: (i) regarding a common area, Section 57-8a-102; and (ii) regarding
a common area and facility, Section 57-8-3 of state code.
   B.   A person may not separately own, convey, or modify a parcel designated
as a common area or common area and facility, on a plat recorded in compliance
with Title 11 of city code, independent of the other lots, units, or parcels
created by the plat unless:
      1.   An association holds in trust the parcel designated as a common area
for the owners of the other lots, units, or parcels created by the plat; or
      2.   The conveyance or modification is approved under Subsection (E).
   C.   If a conveyance or modification of a common area or common area and
facility is approved in accordance with Subsection (E), the person who presents
the instrument of conveyance to a county recorder shall:
      1.   Attach a notice of the approval described in Subsection (E) as an
exhibit to the document of conveyance; or
      2.   Record a notice of the approval described in Subsection (E)
concurrently with the conveyance as a separate document.
   D.   When a plat contains a common area or common area and facility:
      1.   For purposes of assessment, each parcel that the plat creates has an
equal ownership interest in the common area or common area and facility within
the plat, unless the plat or an accompanying recorded document indicates a
different division of interest for assessment purposes; and
      2.   Each instrument describing a parcel on the plat by the parcel's
identifying plat number implicitly includes the ownership interest in the
common area or common area and facility, even if that ownership interest is not
explicitly stated in the instrument.
   E.   Notwithstanding Subsection (B), a person may modify the size or
location of or separately convey a common area or common area and facility if
the following approve the conveyance or modification:
      1.   The city; and
         a.   for a common area that an association owns, 67% of the voting
interests in the association; or
         b.   for a common area that an association does not own, or for a
common area and facility, 67% of the owners of lots, units, and parcels
designated on a plat that is subject to a declaration and on which the common
area or common area and facility is included; and
      2.   During the period of administrative control of the declarant. (Ord.
2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-3-4: CUTS IN PAVEMENT:
No cuts shall be made to street pavement after hard surfacing has been
installed unless a permit is obtained and approved by the city. (Ord. 2024-02,
2-27-2024)
11-3-5: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Grading:
      1.   Land with twenty percent (20%) or greater slope shall have natural
vegetation but may be supplemented by other plant material.
      2.   Every lot or parcel shall have a buildable area equal to at least
forty percent (40%) of the minimum lot size required in subsection
11-3-5C of this chapter.
      3.   All rough street and site grading shall be completed prior to the
installation of utilities.
      4.   Borrowing from on site for fill shall be prohibited unless the
material is obtained from a cut permitted under an approved grading plan
obtained for some purpose other than to produce fill material or imported from
outside the hillside area.
      5.   Cut slopes shall be constructed to eliminate sharp angles of
intersection with the existing terrain and shall be rounded and contoured as
necessary to blend with existing topography to the maximum extent possible. The
city will not accept the dedication and maintenance of cut and fill slopes
except those within the required street right of way. Where a cut or fill slope
occurs between two (2) lots, the slope shall normally be made a part of the
downhill lot.
      6.   Every effort shall be made to conserve topsoil which is removed
during construction for later use on areas requiring vegetation or landscaping
(i.e., cut and fill slopes).
   B.   Drainage:
      1.   Stormwater runoff collection facilities shall be designed to retain
stormwater runoff on development sites for a sufficient length of time to
prevent flooding and erosion during stormwater runoff flow periods as
determined by the city engineer or be designed to divert into the closest
usable water conveyance facility.
      2.   No water conveyance facility shall be approved as suitable for the
use of storm drainage water without the written permission of the appropriate
water conveyance facility owner.
      3.   Stormwater runoff collection facilities shall be designed to divert
surface water away from cut faces or sloping faces of a fill.
      4.   Curb, gutter and pavement designs shall be such that water on
roadways is prevented from flowing off the roadway except into appropriate
drainage facilities.
      5.   Natural drainage shall be riprapped or otherwise stabilized to the
satisfaction of the city engineer below drainage and culvert discharge points
for a distance sufficient to convey the discharge without channel erosion.
      6.   Waste material from construction, including soil and other solid
materials, shall not be deposited within a natural or manmade drainage course
within irrigation channels.
      7.   Sediment catchment ponds shall be constructed on the development
site, unless sediment retention facilities are otherwise provided by the
developer.
   C.   Restrictions For Solar And Other Energy Devices: The city may refuse to
approve or renew any plat, subdivision plan, or dedication of any street or
other ground, if deed restrictions, covenants, or similar binding agreements
running with the land for the lots or parcels covered by the plat or
subdivision prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting reasonably sited and
designed solar collectors, clotheslines, or other energy devices based on
renewable resources from being installed on buildings erected on lots or
parcels covered by the plat or subdivision. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-3-6: PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS:
   A.   The city shall not open, grade, pave or perform any maintenance work on
any private or undedicated streets.
   B.   The city shall not lay utility lines in any street which has not:
      1.   Been accepted by the city as a city street.
      2.   Which has not received approval of the city council as part of the
final plat of a subdivision, unless an easement is granted. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-
27-2024)
11-3-7: WATER AND SEWER:
   A.   Water Installations: Water installations will be installed in
accordance with the provisions of Title 8 of the city code.
   B.   Sewer Installations: Sewer installations will be installed in
accordance with the provisions of Title 8 of the city code. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-
27-2024)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Improvement Completion Assurance
11-4-2: Postponement Of Improvements
11-4-1: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE:
   A.   Amount Equal to Value of Improvements:
      1.   Before an applicant conducts any development, activity or records a
plat, the applicant shall:
         a.   Complete any required improvements, or
         b.   post an improvement completion assurance for any required
improvements.
      2.   If, in lieu of the completion of the required improvements, the
subdivider provides an improvement completion assurance, the improvement
completion assurance shall be in an amount equal to 100% of the value of the
improvements required by this section as estimated by the city engineer.
      3.   The city may not require an applicant to post an improvement
completion assurance for:
         a.   Public landscaping improvements or an infrastructure improvement
that the city has previously inspected and accepted;
         b.   Infrastructure improvements that are private and not essential or
required to meet the building code, fire code, flood or storm water management
provisions, street and access requirements, or other essential necessary public
safety improvements adopted in a land use regulation;
         c.   Landscaping improvements that are not public landscaping
improvements as defined in section
11-1-3, unless the landscaping improvements and completion assurance are
required under the terms of a development agreement.
      4.   The improvement completion assurance shall be either in the form of:
         a.   A corporate or property bond, the conditions of which must be
approved by the city attorney; or
         b.   Cash.
      5.   The purpose of the completion assurance is to ensure construction of
the required improvements within two (2) years from the date of final approval,
without cost to the city, including any additional costs due to inflation.
   B.   Executed By Authorized Surety Company:
      1.   If the applicant elects to provide a completion assurance in the
form of a bond, the bond shall be executed by a surety company duly authorized
to do business in the State.
      2.   The bond shall be payable to the city; filed in the Office of the
City Recorder/Clerk; and be available for public inspection during regular
business hours.
   C.   Duration After Approval: The duration of the completion assurance shall
be
      1.   Two (2) years from the date of approval of the final plat of the
subdivision by the city council; or
      2.   Such lesser time as is required to complete the said improvements.
   D.   Duration of Completion Assurance After Installation:
      1.   The completion assurance shall run for at least ninety (90) days
after the installation of all improvements and after a final inspection
certified by the city engineer.
      2.   In no event shall the city be deemed liable under this section on
any claim asserted by any laborer, or supplier, or contractor.
   E.   Default; Forfeiture Of Completion Assurance: In the event the
subdivider is in default, fails or neglects to satisfactorily install the
required improvements within two (2) years from the date of approval of the
final plat by the city council, or to pay all liens in connection therewith,
the city council may declare the completion assurance forfeited and the city
council may install or cause the required improvements to be installed, using
the proceeds of the collection of the bond to defray the expense thereof.
   F.   Partial Release Permitted: Where the guarantee is required to ensure
the timely installation of improvements, the city may authorize a partial
release(s) of the performance assurance in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
Percent of Work Completed  Percent of Total Assurance Amount Eligible for
                           Release
25%                        25%
50%                        45%
75%                        70%
100% upon final inspection 100%
 
   G.   Final Inspection and Release:
      1.   The subdivider shall be responsible for the quality of all materials
and workmanship at the completion of the work.
      2.   Not less than twenty (20) days prior to the release date of the
completion assurance, the city engineer shall make a preliminary inspection of
the improvements and shall submit a report to the city council setting forth
the conditions of such facilities.
         a.   If the city engineer determines that work has been completed to
applicable standards and any liens have been fully paid, the city council shall
release the completion assurance.
         b.   If all liens are not paid, the city council may declare the
subdivider in default and deny release of the bond. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-4-2: POSTPONEMENT OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The city authorizes the use of a Zoning Lot Postponement of Improvements
Agreement (Lien Form) as follows:
CITY OF MONTICELLO
ZONING LOT POSTPONEMENT OF IMPROVEMENTS
AGREEMENT (LIEN)
<APPLICANT NAME> of The City of Monticello, County of San Juan, State of Utah,
hereinafter referred to as APPLICANT, and MONTICELLO CITY CORPORATION, a
municipal corporation of the State of Utah, hereinafter referred to as "the
CITY," hereby agree as follows:
1.   PRELIMINARY: APPLICANT has applied for a building permit for a new
structure or an addition to or remodeling of an existing structure, on property
located at <PHYSICAL ADDRESS>, more particularly described in Paragraph 2
hereof. There is in force an ordinance of the CITY, known as Title 11 Chapter 3
of the Monticello City Code. This ordinance requires the installation of off-
site improvements, including, but not limited to: construction/paving of curb,
gutter, sidewalks, and streets adjacent to any property and connections for
culinary water, secondary water, and sewer, where the same have not previously
been installed. Said improvements are to be installed at such time as
application is made for a building permit for any other improvement on such
property.
2.   LEGAL DESCRIPTION: Following is a legal description of the property to
which this agreement pertains, to wit;
3.   AGREEMENT FOR POSTPONED INSTALLATION: The parties agree that APPLICANT may
postpone compliance with the terms of Title 11 Chapter 3 of the Monticello City
Code, until such time the City Council shall determine, in its considered
discretion, that the improvements should be installed adjacent to the
APPLICANT'S property. The City Council shall not make such determination until
like improvements are required to be installed on adjacent properties.
4.   POSTPONED INSTALLATION: Upon receipt of notice that the City Council has
made the determination referred to in Paragraph 3, hereof, APPLICANT or its
successor in interest shall either proceed to install the said off-site
improvements or reimburse the CITY if the CITY elects to install the
improvements. In the event a special improvement district (SID) is organized
for the purpose of installing the off-site improvements, APPLICANT agrees to
make payment to SID for improvements. In any case, APPLICANT will refrain from
objecting either formally or otherwise to the installation of the improvements,
the establishment of such a district, or the assessment imposed by the district
for construction of the improvements indicated above.
5.   COMPLIANCE WITH CITY ORDINANCES AND SPECIFICATIONS: It is agreed that the
installation of the off-site improvements shall be constructed in accordance
with all applicable, specifications, and standards of the CITY, and with any
administrative rules or regulations pertinent thereto. All work shall be
subject to the inspection of the CITY Building Official or his agent, and any
questions as to conformity with the CITY specifications or standards or as to
the technical sufficiency of the work shall be decided by the CITY Building
Official, and his decision shall be final and conclusive.
6.   LIEN TO BE RECORDED: It is agreed that this Agreement shall be placed on
record in the office of the San Juan County Recorder and shall be a lien
against the property described in Paragraph 2 hereof. Upon satisfactory
completion of the installation of said off-site improvements, the lien shall be
discharged by the CITY. APPLICANT shall pay the expenses of recording and
discharging the lien.
7.   SUCCESSORS, ENFORCEMENT: This agreement shall be binding on the parties
hereto, their successors or assigns. Should the services of an attorney be
required to enforce this Agreement, the defaulting party agrees to pay a
reasonable attorney's fee and court costs. (Ord. 2019-1-1, 1-8-2019, eff. 1-8-
2019)
8.   SIGNATURES: Print name, title, date. Signatures of authorized persons for
each party to the agreement.
9.   NOTARY PUBLIC: Signature and stamp of Notary who personally viewed and
attests to the signing of the Zoning Lot Postponement of Improvements Agreement
(Lien).
   o A fillable application can be obtained by request to the Planning & Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 5
AMENDING AND VACATING RECORDED PLAT AND VACATING STREETS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Petition to Amend or Vacate Subdivision Plat
11-5-2: Approval of Amendment or Vacation of Plat
11-5-3: Petition to Vacate a Public Street
11-5-1: PETITION TO AMEND OR VACATE SUBDIVISION PLAT:
   A.   As used in this section, vacating a plat is considered to be a plat
amendment.
   B.   Request to amend a subdivision plat
      1.   A fee owner of land as shown on the last county assessment roll, in
a subdivision that has been laid out and platted as provided in Title 11 of
city code may file a written petition with the city to request a subdivision
amendment (resubdivision).
      2.   Upon filing a written petition to request a subdivision amendment
under subsection
11-5-1(B)(1), the owner shall prepare and, if approved by the city, record a
plat in accordance with
11-2-4 that:
         a.   Depicts only the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to
be amended; and b. Includes a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from
the original plat; and c. Describes the differences between the amended plat
and the original plat; and d. Includes references to the original plat.
      3.   If a petition is filed under subsection
11-5-1(B)(1), the city shall provide notice of the petition by mail, email, or
other effective means to each affected entity that provides a service to an
owner of record of the portion of the plat that is being vacated or amended at
least 10 calendar days before the city may approve the petition for a
subdivision amendment.
      4.   If a petition is filed under subsection
11-5-1(B)(1), the city shall hold a public hearing within 45 days after the day
on which the petition is filed if:
         a.   Any owner within the plat notifies the city of the owner's
objection in writing within ten (10) days of mailed notification; or
         b.   A public hearing is required because all of the owners in the
subdivision have not signed the revised plat.
      5.   The city may not approve a petition for a subdivision amendment
under this section unless the amendment identifies and preserves any easements
owned by a culinary water authority and sanitary sewer authority for existing
facilities located within the subdivision.
   C.   The public hearing requirement of subsection
11-5-1(B)(4) does not apply and the city may consider at a public meeting an
owner's petition for a subdivision amendment if:
      1.   The petition seeks to:
         a.   Join two or more of the petitioner fee owners contiguous lots;
         b.   Subdivide one or more of the petitioning fee owner's lots, if the
subdivision will not result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a
development condition;
         c.   Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an
adjoining parcel if the fee owners of each of the adjoining properties join in
the petition, regardless of whether the properties are located in the same
subdivision;
         d.   On a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal
lot restriction imposed by the city; or
         e.   Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing
boundaries or other attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not:
            (1)   Owned by the petitioner; or
            (2)   Designated as a common area; and
      2.   Notice has been given to adjoining property owners in accordance
with any applicable local ordinance.
   D.   A petition under subsection
11-5-1(B)(1) that contains a request to amend a public street or city utility
easement is also subject to section
11-5-3.
   E.   A petition under subsection
11-5-1(B)(1) that contains a request to amend an entire plat or a portion of a
plat shall include:
      1.   The name and address of each owner of record of the land contained
in the entire plat or on that portion of the plat described in the petition;
and
      2.   The signature of each owner described in subsection
11-5-1(E)(1) who consents to the petition.
   F.   Exchange of title
      1.   The owners of record of adjoining properties where one or more of
the properties is a lot may exchange title to portions of those properties if
the exchange of title is approved by the city in accordance with subsection
11-5-1(F)(2).
      2.   The city shall approve a lot line adjustment under subsection
11-5-1(F)(1) if the exchange of title will not result in a violation of any
land use ordinance.
      3.   If lot line adjustment is approved under subsection
11-5-1(F)(2):
         a.   A notice of lot line adjustment approval shall be recorded in the
office of the county recorder which:
            (1)   Is approved by the city; and
            (2)   Recites the legal descriptions of both the original
properties and the properties resulting from the exchange of title; and
         b.   A document of conveyance shall be recorded in the office of the
county recorder.
      4.   A notice of approval recorded under this subsection
11-5-1(F) does not act as a conveyance of title to real property and is not
required in order to record a document conveying title to real property.
   G.   Changing the name of a recorded subdivision
      1.   The name of a recorded subdivision may be changed by recording an
amended plat making that change, as provided in this section and subject to
subsection
11-5-1(G)(3).
      2.   The surveyor preparing the amended plat shall certify that the
surveyor:
         a.   Holds a license in accordance with Utah Code Title 58, Chapter
22, Professional Engineers and Professional Land Surveyors Licensing Act; and
         b.   Has completed a survey of the property described on the plat in
accordance with Section 17-23-17 and has verified all measurements; or
         c.   Has referenced a record of survey map of the existing property
boundaries shown on the plat and verified the locations of the boundaries; and
         d.   Has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
      3.   An owner of land may not submit for recording an amended plat that
gives the subdivision described in the amended plat the same name as a
subdivision in a plat already recorded in the county recorder's office.
      4.   Except as provided in subsection
11-5-1(G)(1), the recording of a declaration or other document that purports to
change the name of a recorded plat is void. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-5-2: APPROVAL OF AMENDMENT OR VACATION OF PLAT:
   A.   The city may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing an
amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the city finds that:
      1.   There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and
      2.   No public street or city utility easement has been vacated or
amended.
   B.   Recording of amended or vacated plat
      1.   The petitioner of the amendment or vacation of a subdivision plat
shall record in the office of the county recorder in which the land is located:
         a.   The plat approved by the city and bearing the appropriate
signatures; and
         b.   Return to the city a copy of the recorded plat bearing the county
recorder's stamp; and
         c.   Complete B(1)(a and b) within 30 days of the city approval of the
amendment or vacation of a subdivision plat.
      2.   If the amended plat is approved and recorded in accordance with this
section, the recorded plat shall vacate, supersede, and replace any contrary
provision in a previously recorded plat of the same land.
   C.   City may vacate a subdivision
      1.   The city may vacate a subdivision or a portion of a subdivision by
recording in the county recorder's office an ordinance describing the
subdivision or the portion being vacated.
      2.   The recorded vacating ordinance shall replace a previously recorded
plat described in the vacating ordinance.
   D.   An amended plat may not be submitted to the county recorder for
recording unless it is:
      1.   Signed by the city; and
      2.   Signed, acknowledged, and dedicated by each owner of record of the
portion of the plat that is amended.
   E.   When applicable, a management committee may sign and dedicate an
amended plat as provided in Title 57,Chapter 8, Condominium Ownership Act of
Utah Code.
   F.   A recorded plat may be corrected as provided in Section 57-3-106 of
Utah Code. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-5-3: PETITION TO VACATE A PUBLIC STREET:
   A.   In lieu of vacating some or all of a public street through a plat or
amended plat in accordance with sections
11-5-2 and
11-5-3, the city may approve a petition to vacate a public street in accordance
with this section.
   B.   A petition to vacate some or all of a public street or city utility
easement shall include:
      1.   The name and address of each owner of record of land that is:
         a.   Adjacent to the public street or city utility easement between
the two nearest public street intersections; or
         b.   Accessed exclusively by or within three hundred feet (300') of
the public street or city utility easement;
      2.   Proof of written notice to operators of utilities and culinary water
or sanitary sewer facilities located within the bounds of the public street or
city utility easement sought to be vacated; and
      3.   The signature of each owner under subsection
11-5-3(B)(1) who consents to the vacation.
   C.   If a petition is submitted containing a request to vacate some or all
of a public street or city utility easement, the city shall hold a public
hearing in accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-208, Hearing and Notice for Petition
to Vacate a Public Street, and determine whether:
      1.   Good cause exists for the vacation; and
      2.   The public interest or any person will be materially injured by the
proposed vacation.
   D.   The city may adopt an ordinance granting a petition to vacate some or
all of a public street or city utility easement if the city council finds that:
      1.   Good cause exists for the vacation; and
      2.   Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially
injured by the vacation.
   E.   If the city adopts an ordinance vacating some or all of a public street
or city utility easement, the city council shall ensure that one or both of the
following is recorded in the county recorder's office:
      1.   A plat reflecting the vacation; or
      2.   In lieu of a plat the city shall provide
         a.   An ordinance described in subsection
11-5-3(D); and
         b.   A legal description of the public street to be vacated.
   F.   The action of the city council vacating some or all of a public street
or city utility easement that has been dedicated to public use:
      1.   Operates to the extent to which it is vacated, upon the effective
date of the recorded plat or ordinance, as a revocation of the acceptance of
and the relinquishment of the city's fee in the vacated public street or city
utility easement; and
      2.   May not be construed to impair:
         a.   Any right-of-way or easement of any parcel or lot owner;
         b.   The rights of any public utility; or
         c.   The rights of a culinary water authority or sanitary sewer
authority.
   G.   City may submit a petition to vacate some or all of a public street:
      1.   If the city submits a petition and initiates a process under
subsection
11-5-3(G):
         a.   The city council shall hold a public hearing;
         b.   The petition and process may not apply to or affect a public
utility easement, except to the extent:
            (1)   The easement is not a protected utility easement as defined
in Utah Code 54-3-27;
            (2)   The easement is included within the public street; and
            (3)   The notice to vacate the public street also contains a notice
to vacate the easement; and
         c.   A recorded ordinance to vacate a public street has the same legal
effect as vacating a public street through a recorded plat or amended plat.
   H.   The city may not approve a petition to vacate a public street under
this section unless the vacation identifies and preserves any easements owned
by a culinary water authority and sanitary sewer authority for existing
facilities located within the public street. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
CHAPTER 6
SUBDIVISION FEES AND ENFORCEMENT OF TITLE
SECTION:
11-6-1: Fees
11-6-2: Enforcement Of Title
11-6-1: FEES:
   A.   Fees established by resolution of the city council in accord with Title
1 Chapter 7 of city code shall be assessed as a condition of the submission
and/or approval of any subdivision anticipated by a developer within the city.
Fees paid will go to the general fund of the city and will defray a portion of
the expense incurred in reviewing plats and inspection of subdivision
improvements.
   B.   Plat Fees:
      1.   First Submission: The subdivider shall pay a basic fee, at the time
of the first submission of a preliminary subdivision plat, plus an additional
amount for each lot or parcel contained within the preliminary plat.
      2.   Reapplication: A reapplication fee shall be paid by the subdivider
at the time of a reapplication for approval of a preliminary plat which has
been previously reviewed by the city. Such fee shall be based on the need for
additional review of major changes to the original plat.
   C.   Inspection Fees:
      1.   The subdivider shall post an inspection fee with the city to cover
the cost of inspecting improvements in the subdivision.
      2.   Upon completion of all the improvements, the city shall refund any
amount not actually used or, if the fund is exhausted before completion of all
improvements, the subdivider shall pay the city an amount estimated by the city
council to be sufficient to cover completion.
   D.   Engineering Fees: The subdivider shall pay all costs incurred from
hiring a registered engineer or engineering firm to review, inspect, and
approve the subdivision. (Ord. 2024-02, 2-27-2024)
11-6-2: ENFORCEMENT OF TITLE:
   A.   Designation of city council:
      1.   The city council is hereby designated, authorized and charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of this title and shall enter such actions in
court as are necessary.
      2.   Failure of the city council to pursue appropriate legal remedies
shall not legalize any violation of such provisions.
   B.   Inspection during construction:
      1.   Appropriate agencies and departments of the city and under direction
of the city council shall inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings, fire
hydrants, water supply, and sewage disposal systems during construction,
installation or repair.
      2.   Excavation for fire hydrants and water and sewer mains and laterals
shall not be covered or backfilled before being inspected and approved.
      3.   Any backfilled excavation that was not inspected and approved by the
City shall be uncovered after notice to uncover has been issued to the
responsible person by the building inspector.
   C.   Permits issued:
      1.   From the time of the effective date of the ordinance codified as
this title, the zoning administrator shall not grant a permit, or any city
officer grant any license or permit for the use of any land, or the
construction or alteration of any building or structure on a lot which could be
in violation of any provisions of this title until a subdivision plat has been
recorded or approved as herein required.
      2.   Any license or permit issued in conflict with such provisions shall
be void.
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall transfer or sell any lot
or land in any subdivision, as defined in this title, which subdivision has not
been approved by the planning commission and by the city council of the city
and recorded in the office of the San Juan County recorder, shall be guilty of
a class B misdemeanor for each lot or parcel so transferred or sold, and the
description of such lot or parcel of land, by metes and bounds in the
instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or
transferring, shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties, or from the
remedies herein provided.
      2.   Upon conviction thereof, the violator shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-6 of city code.
      3.   Each day that a violation is permitted to exist may constitute a
separate offense.
      4.   The imposition of any sentence or fine shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this title.
      5.   The city may enjoin such transfer, sale or agreement by action of
injunction, or may recover the said penalty by civil action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
      6.   No building permit shall be issued for improvement or building on
said property until all subdivision's requirements have been met. (Ord. 2024-
02, 2-27-2024)
