MORGAN COUNTY, UTAH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance CO-24-19, passed 8-20-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. CO-23-18
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR MORGAN COUNTY, UTAH, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF MORGAN COUNTY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of Morgan County are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of Morgan County and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the acts of the Legislature of the State of Utah empower and
authorize Morgan County to revise, amend, restate, codify, and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Morgan County Commission has authorized a general compilation,
revision, and codification of the ordinances of Morgan County of a general and
permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of Morgan County that this ordinance take effect at
an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNTY COMMISSION OF MORGAN COUNTY, STATE
OF UTAH:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of Morgan County as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of Morgan County, Utah."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
                  TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
                  TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
                  TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
                  TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
                  TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
                  TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
                  TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
                  TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code except for CO-23-10, CO-23-11, CO-23-12, CO-23-13, CO-23-14,
CO-23-15, CO-23-16, and CO-23-17 which shall be incorporated by reference and
remain in full force and effect; provided such repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect
any other portion of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of
this Ordinance shall be severable.
Section 5.   This Ordinance shall become effective after subsequent publication
in accordance with State Law, but not before 15 days after its passage.
   APPROVED, ADOPTED AND PASSED and ordered published by the Morgan County
Commission, this 7th Day of November 2023.
ATTEST:
/s/ Leslie Hyde                MORGAN COUNTY GOVERNING BODY
Leslie Hyde
Morgan County Clerk
                                     /s/ Mike Newton
                                    Mike Newton, County Commission Chair
APPROVED AS TO FORM
/s/ Garrett Smith                Commission Members       Voting:
Garrett Smith                                        AYE   NAY   ABSENT
Morgan County Attorney                  Robert McConnell    x
                          
                                 Mike Newton        x                          
                                 Matthew Wilson        x
                         
                                 Jared Anderson        x
                         
                                 Blaine Fackrell        x
                         
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Morgan County
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK. The Clerk of Morgan County.
      COMMISSION. The Morgan County Commission.
      COUNTY. Morgan County, Utah.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      STATE. The State of Utah.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this county exercising
the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of
any transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the
Commission refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department,
officer, agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(UCA §             )
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see UCA §             
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Sentencing.
      (1)   Penalty for violation of ordinance.
         (a)   Specified. The county legislative body may enforce obedience to
ordinances by punishment, not to exceed the maximum fine for a class B
misdemeanor under UCA § 76-3-301, imprisonment or by both fine and
imprisonment.
         (b)   Traffic; parking.
            1.   Except as specifically authorized by statute, the county
legislative body may not impose a civil penalty for the violation of a county
traffic ordinance.
            2.   Division (A)(1)(b)1. above does not apply to an ordinance
regulating the parking of vehicles on a highway.
      (2)   Term of imprisonment for misdemeanors. A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
         (a)   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
six months; or
         (b)   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
90 days.
      (3)   Infractions.
         (a)   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but
may be subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification or any combination.
         (b)   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no
punishment is specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
      (4)   Fines of persons. A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
         (a)   Class B misdemeanor. One thousand dollars when the conviction is
of a class B misdemeanor conviction; or
         (b)   Class C misdemeanor; infraction. Seven hundred fifty dollars
when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or infraction
conviction.
      (5)   Fines of corporations. The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed
upon a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality
for an offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the county, or for an
offense defined outside of this code over which this county has jurisdiction,
for which no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount
fixed by the court, not exceeding:
         (a)   Class B misdemeanor. Five thousand dollars when the conviction
is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; or
         (b)   Class C misdemeanor; infraction. One thousand dollars when the
conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an infraction
conviction.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Offenses designated; classified.
      (1)   Sentencing in accordance with chapter.
         (a)   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this county shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
         (b)   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
      (2)    Designation of offenses. Offenses are designated as misdemeanors
or infractions.
      (3)   Misdemeanors classified.
         (a)   Misdemeanors are classified into two categories:
            1.   Class B misdemeanors; or
            2.   Class C misdemeanors.
         (b)   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this county when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
      (4)   Infractions.
         (a)   Infractions are not classified.
         (b)   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this county, or which is expressly designated an infraction and
any offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this county which is
not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
      (5)   Continuing violation. In all instances where the violation of this
code or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY GOVERNMENT
      
31.   COUNTY COMMISSION
      
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   TAXES
      
36.   PURCHASING PROCEDURES
      
37.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COUNTY GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Structural form of county government
   
30.02   Regulations for county offices
§ 30.01 STRUCTURAL FORM OF COUNTY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   Authority and establishment. Pursuant to Utah Constitution Article XI,
§ 4, (the “optional plan statute”), this plan (the “plan”) establishes the
“general county (modified)” structural form of county government, within the
county. The governing body of the county shall be the County Commission (the
“Commission”) as provided in §
31.01 of this code. The management arrangement for the county shall remain as
provided by UCA Title 17, or other general laws applicable to county
government.
   (B)   Continuity. This plan shall not change or disrupt the corporate
existence, identity, contractual obligations or jurisdiction of the county. As
provided in the optional plan statute, the county remains vested with all
powers and duties vested in counties by general laws. Except as provided in
this plan with respect to the predecessor County Commissioners and a new
Council, the terms of office of elected county officers shall not be affected
by this plan, and, except for the change from the predecessor County
Commissioners to a new Council, the elected county officers shall retain their
respective functions, responsibilities, powers and duties under applicable
general law. Appointed county officers and members of county boards and
commissions shall continue in their respective present offices, and county
employees shall continue in their respective present offices, and county
employees shall continue in their respective present positions, unless and
until otherwise directed by the governing body, subject to applicable law.
Existing county ordinances, resolutions and regulations shall not be affected
by this plan, except as provided in §
30.02(D) of this code. Pending legislative, administrative or judicial
proceedings shall not be affected by this plan (but shall be under the
direction of a new Council when it takes office, subject to applicable law).
This plan does not affect any school district, circuit or justice court, city,
town, special taxing district, public authority, county service area or other
local public entity within the county.
   (C)   Transition.
      (1)   This plan shall become effective immediately upon its approval by
the voters of the county; provided, that the predecessor County Commissioners
shall remain in office until new Council members take office pursuant to §
31.01(B)(3) of this code, at which time the terms of office of all of the
predecessor County Commissioners shall expire. Immediately upon voter approval
of this plan, the County Clerk shall file a certified true and correct copy of
this plan with the Lieutenant Governor, as required by the optional plan
statute.
      (2)   (a)   As soon as practicable after this plan becomes effective, the
County Clerk shall:
            1.   Select a date for the special election for members of the new
Council, which date shall be a Tuesday not less than 85 nor more than 100 days
after the election at which this plan was approved; and
            2.   Publish a notice stating that individuals wishing to run for
office as Council members must submit nomination petitions in accordance with §
31.01(B)(4) of this code no later than the deadline date stated in the notice,
which shall be not less than 55 nor more than 65 days prior to the date set for
the special election for a new Council.
         (b)   If more than two timely and sufficient nomination petitions are
received for the seat for any one district (as defined in §
31.01(B)(1)) of this code, or if more than four timely and sufficient
nomination petitions are received for the two at large Council seats, the
County Clerk shall schedule a primary election with respect to such Council
seat or seats for a Tuesday not less than 20 nor more than 35 days prior to the
date set for the special election for the new Council, and only the two
candidates for each such Council district seat receiving the two highest vote
totals at such special primary election, and only the four at large Council
candidates receiving the four highest vote totals at such special primary
election, shall be listed on the ballot at the special election for the new
Council. The special election for the new Council and the special primary
election, if any, shall be conducted, and notice of such elections shall be
given, in substantially the manner provided by law for other county special
elections.
      (3)   As soon as practicable after the new Council takes office, it shall
determine to what extent, if any, implementation of this plan requires
adjustments to the county budget appropriations, and the Council shall prepare
and approve such adjustments, if any, in the manner provided by law (including,
without limitation, compliance with any applicable notice and hearing
requirements).
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
Editor’s note:
   Per document dated 7-14-1997
§ 30.02 REGULATIONS FOR COUNTY OFFICES.
   (A)   Independent candidates for county offices. All candidates for elected
county offices shall be nominated as independent candidates in substantially
the manner provided by the UCA Part 5 of Chapter 9, Title 20A, as amended from
time to time, with primary elections, if necessary, as provided in §
31.01(B)(4) of this code; and no political party designation shall be used on
the ballot for any county office at any election. Pursuant to, and invoking the
full extent of the authority granted by Utah Constitution Article XI, § 4, and
the optional plan statute, it is hereby determined and declared that
utilization of independent candidacies as the manner of electing county
officers is necessary and desirable to achieve the best and most effective
operation of this plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this
plan as to independent candidacies, like all other provisions of this plan, are
subject to severability. Nothing in this section shall preclude write-in
candidacies as provided by applicable law.
   (B)   Delegation; liberal construction. All officers and agents of the
county, including, but not limited to, the County Clerk, the predecessor County
Commissioners and the members of the Council established by this plan, are
authorized and directed to take all action necessary or appropriate to fully
implement the provisions of this plan. The provisions of this plan shall be
liberally construed in accordance with its purposes of establishing a more
representative, accountable, accessible, responsive and efficient county
government.
   (C)   Amendments. Pursuant to the optional plan statute, amendments to this
plan which are not contrary to the “general county (modified)” structural form
of county government established hereunder may be adopted by the Council by a
two-thirds’ vote of all its members; but amendments adopted by the Council
which are contrary to a specific requirement of the optional plan statute
applicable to the “general county (modified)” structural form of county
government shall not be effective unless submitted to and approved by a
majority of the voters casting a vote on the question at a general or special
election. Amendments to this plan are county legislation, and therefor may also
be initiated or referred by petition of registered voters of the county in the
manner provided by UCA Title 20A, Chapter 7, as amended from time to time. This
plan acknowledges the time restrictions on certain optional plan changes, but
it is the intent of this plan, if the optional plan statute is amended so as to
reduce or eliminate such time restrictions and permit earlier changes to
optional plans, such amendment shall apply to any such changes to this plan.
   (D)   Inconsistent provisions repealed. Any provisions of any county
charter, ordinance, resolution, regulation or other enactment inconsistent with
this plan are repealed only to the extent of such inconsistency.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
Editor’s note:
   Per document dated 7-14-1997
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY COMMISSION
Section
   
31.01   County Commission
§ 31.01 COUNTY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Governing body. The governing body of the county shall be a five-
member County Commission (the “Commission”), which shall exercise all
legislative powers of the county authorized by law. The Commission shall have
all powers and duties, and shall be subject to all limitations and
restrictions, provided by general law for Boards of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Election, qualifications, terms and nominations of Commission members;
term limits.
      (1)   Two Commission members shall be elected from the county at large
and the other three are divided into three districts. For the purpose of
electing the other three Commission members, the county shall be divided into
three districts (the “Commission districts”) as provided in division (C) below,
and the voters of each Commission district shall elect one member to the
Commission.
      (2)   All Commission members shall be registered voters and residents of
the county and shall have been registered voters of the county for at least one
year immediately preceding their election to the Commission as required by UCA
§ 17-53-202. Commission members elected from Commission districts shall be
residents of their respective Commission districts at the time their
certificate of nomination is initially filed pursuant to division (B)(4) below
and UCA Title 20A, Chapter 9, Part 5.
      (3)   The initial election of Commission members shall be scheduled in
accordance with §
30.01(C) of this code, and the terms of office of the new Commission members
shall commence at 12:00 p.m. on the second Monday after their election. The
seat of the at large Commission member receiving the highest number of votes at
the initial election. The regular term of office for all Commission members
shall be four years. After each such election, newly elected or reelected
Commission members shall take office on the first Monday in January pursuant to
UCA § 17-16-6.
      (4)   (a)   All candidates for the Commission shall be nominated as
independent candidates in substantially the manner provided by UCA Title 20A,
Chapter 9, Part 5, as amended from time to time, except as follows:
            1.   For candidates for Commission district seats at any election,
nomination petitions must be signed by at least 25 registered voters who are
residents of the district, rather than 100 registered voters of the county as
required for countywide offices; and
            2.   For candidates for at large Commission seats at only the
initial election of Commission members hereunder, nomination petitions must be
signed by at least 50 registered voters of the county; but thereafter
nomination petitions for at large Commission seats must be signed by at least
100 registered voters of the county as generally required for countywide
offices.
         (b)   If more than two timely and sufficient nomination petitions are
received for any one Commission seat, the County Clerk shall give notice of and
conduct a primary election with respect to such Commission seat or seats, in
substantially the manner provided by law for primary elections. Only the two
candidates for each such Commission seat receiving the two highest vote totals
at such primary election shall be listed on the ballot at the general election.
No political party designation shall be used on the ballot for Commission
members at any election. Pursuant to and invoking the full extent of the
authority granted by Utah Constitution Article XI, § 4, and the optional plan
statute, it is hereby determined and declared that utilization of independent
candidacies as the manner of electing Commission members is necessary and
desirable to achieve the best and most effective operation of this plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this plan as to independent
candidacies, like all other provisions of this plan, are subject to §
30.02 of this code. Nothing in this division (B)(4)(b) shall preclude write-in
candidacies as provided by applicable law.
      (5)   There shall be a limit of two consecutive four-year terms, and any
person who has served two consecutive four-year terms shall be ineligible to be
a candidate for any other consecutive Commission term; but nothing in this
division (B)(5) shall preclude such person from becoming a Commission candidate
at any time thereafter. Initial Commission terms for those seats to be up for
election at the 2000 general election shall not be considered four-year terms
for purposes of this division (B)(5), but initial Commission terms for those
seats to be up for election at the 2002 general election shall be considered
four-year terms hereunder. Terms served on the predecessor County Commission
prior to adoption of this plan shall not be counted for purposes of this
division (B)(5), nor shall any partial Commission terms due to vacancies.
   (C)   Commission districts.
      (1)   Commission districts are determined by the County Clerk’s Office.
      (2)   The Commission districts shall be modified on the basis of federal
census data to the extent necessary or appropriate to conform to applicable
law. The Commission districts may also be modified to conform to the county’s
voting precincts or to changes to county voting districts. Such modifications
to conform to census data, school district precincts or changed voting
districts, shall not be considered amendments to this plan within the meaning§
30.02(C) of this code, and may be made by the Commission or by such other
authority as directed by applicable law.
   (D)   Removal and recall of Commission members; vacancies.
      (1)   If any Commission member shall die, resign, cease to be a resident
of the county or of the Commission district from which elected, become
incapacitated for a period in excess of six months, fail to attend Commission
meetings or otherwise fail to perform his or her official duties for an
unexcused period of two months, be recalled as provided in division (D)(2)
below, or otherwise be removed from office pursuant to general law, his or her
Commission membership shall be deemed vacant.
      (2)   Persons wishing to circulate a recall petition shall file an
application with the County Clerk. The application shall contain:
         (a)   The name and residence address of at least three sponsors of the
recall petition;
         (b)   A statement indicating that each of the sponsors is a registered
voter and a resident of the district; and
         (c)   A copy of the proposed recall petition with specific reasons.
The petition and signature sheets shall be prepared in a similar manner to
initiative petitions as provided in UCA § 20A-7-503, as amended, and as
approved by the County Clerk. Upon petition of registered voters equal in
number to 20% of the last gubernatorial vote within the county for at large
Commission members, or 25% of the last gubernatorial vote within the Commission
district for Commission members elected from Commission districts, the County
Clerk shall provide for the question of recalling said Commission member to be
submitted to a vote within the county or Commission district, as the case may
be. If a sufficient petition is filed between 180 and 45 days prior to a
general election, the recall question shall be submitted to the voters at such
general election; otherwise, the County Clerk shall, as soon as practicable,
schedule, give notice of and conduct a special election on such recall
question, substantially in the manner provided by law for other county special
elections. If a majority of the votes cast are in favor of recall, that
Commission membership shall be deemed vacant and shall be filled as provided in
division (D)(3) below. No recall petition may be filed within the first six
months or the last six months of a Commission member’s term of office.
      (3)   Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled in the manner provided
by UCA § 20A-1-508, as amended from time to time; provided, that references to
political parties shall be inapplicable, and persons shall become candidates
for election or appointment, as the case may be, by filing petitions
substantially as provided in division (B)(4) above within the applicable time
limitations.
   (E)   Commission meetings and procedures; records.
      (1)   The Commission shall hold regular meetings at least twice a month.
Notice of all regular and special Commission meetings shall be given to the
Commission and to the public as required by law, and all regular and special
Commission meetings shall be open to the public except to the extent otherwise
provided by law.
      (2)   Subject to applicable law, the Commission may establish rules of
procedure for Commission meetings. Ordinances and resolutions shall be enacted
in the manner provided by law.
      (3)   A majority of the members of the Commission in office at any time
constitutes a quorum of the Commission. Except as otherwise provided by law, no
Commission action shall be valid and binding unless it is approved by the
affirmative vote of at least four Commission members.
      (4)   As soon as practicable after the new Commission members take office
after the first Commission election under this plan and in January after each
regular election, the Commission shall elect from members a Chairperson and a
Vice Chairperson. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Vice
Chairperson, shall preside at Commission meetings and shall sign ordinances,
resolutions and other documents as appropriate on behalf of the county. The
Commission may designate one of its members as Chairperson pro tem if neither
the Chairperson nor the Vice Chairperson is available. The Chairperson, Vice
Chairperson or Chairperson pro tem shall have the same rights to debate and
vote in the Commission as any other Commission member and shall have no veto
power and no other special substantive authority.
      (5)   Records of all Commission proceedings shall be kept and the votes
of all Commission members shall be clearly indicated therein. The Commission
shall provide for the county financial information to be compiled and
summarized on a quarterly or more frequent basis, including the amounts and
purposes of each disbursement of funds by the county, and such financial
information shall be promptly posted at the county courthouse. All records of
the county shall be open to the public except to the extent otherwise provided
by law. The county will comply with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act and
the Utah Government Records Access and Management Act. The records officer for
the Sheriff’s office is the Sheriff’s office records clerk. The County Clerk is
the records officer for the rest of the county.
   (F)   Commission compensation. Initially, each member of the Commission
shall be paid $300 per month, except that the Chairperson shall be paid $500
per month, and the Vice Chairperson shall be paid $400 per month, and the
county shall not pay for major benefits (such as health insurance) for
Commission members. The Commission compensation may be changed by ordinance,
which changes shall not be considered amendments to this plan within the
meaning of §
30.02(C) of this code; provided, that no increase in compensation shall become
effective for any Commission member until subsequent election for that member’s
Commission seat has occurred. Commission members shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses they incur in the course of their official duties; such reimbursements
shall be identified in the summary financial information required by division
(E)(5) above. See division (I) below for current compensation.
   (G)   Role of Commission. Consistent with this plan’s provisions increasing
the size and reducing the compensation of the Commission, it is the intent of
this plan to establish the Commission as a citizen body whose members serve on
a part-time basis primarily in a legislative, policy-making role, and
membership on the Commission is not intended to be a full-time position
involving extensive day-to-day administrative oversight of county operations
and functions. Accordingly, it is expected that the Commission will implement
this plan by using its power under UCA Title 17, and other applicable general
laws, to maintain and fully utilize an adequate, competent professional county
staff to perform, administer and have day-to-day oversight over the county’s
operations and functions, pursuant to general policies and directives
promulgated by the Commission. Pursuant to and invoking the full authority
granted by Utah Constitution Article XI, § 4, and the optional plan statute, it
is hereby determined and declared that the foregoing provisions of this section
as to the role of the Commission are necessary and desirable to achieve the
best and most effective operation of this plan; but, like all other provisions
of this plan, the foregoing provisions are subject to §
30.02 of this code. The Commission is encouraged to cooperate with and fully
utilize the county’s appointed Boards and Commissions, and to give full
consideration to information and recommendations communicated by such Boards
and Commissions, in order to maximize citizen participation in county
government. The Commission is also encouraged to fully cooperate with the City
of Morgan and other government entities and to fully utilize all mechanisms
legally and practically available to consolidate and share governmental
services, functions and facilities, in order to maximize governmental
efficiency and economy.
   (H)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Except for the compensation provided for in division (F) above and/
or division (I) below, no member of the Commission shall be compensated by the
county for any work in connection with the administration or management of
county government.
      (2)   The Commission members are subject to all limitations applicable
under general law to the members of a Board of County Commissioners relating to
prohibited interests and relationships.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
   (I)   Compensation. As authorized by division (F) above, the optional plan
for the county government, and in respect for the considerable time, service
and efforts of part-time Commission members on behalf of the county, effective
January 1, 2017, Commission member compensation shall be $2,000 per month,
except that the Chair shall be paid $2,500 per month and the Vice Chair shall
be paid $2,300 per month.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
   (J)   Benefits. Members of the County Commission shall be allowed to enroll
in the employee health, dental and vision insurance plans offered to other
employees of the county.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
(Ord. 04-08, passed 5-18-2004; Ord. 16-15, passed 12-20-2016; Ord. 17-33,
passed 10-7-2017)
Editor’s note:
   Per document dated 7-14-1997
CHAPTER 32: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
32.01   Constable officer consolidated with County Sheriff
   
32.02   Furnishing false information to county official
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 CONSTABLE OFFICER CONSOLIDATED WITH COUNTY SHERIFF.
   The office of Constable, as created and defined within UCA §§ 17-25-1 et
seq., to attend the Justice of the Peace for the county, first precinct, is
hereby consolidated with the existing office of the County Sheriff, as such is
created by and defined within UCA §§ 17-22-2 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1) (Ord. 74, passed 1-5-1978)
§ 32.02 FURNISHING FALSE INFORMATION TO COUNTY OFFICIAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person having a duty as a county official
or employee to furnish information to the County Auditor and the County
Commission for use in the preparation of the county budget, to intentionally or
negligently fail to furnish accurate information concerning the revenues that
can be anticipated by the county for the year for which any budget is being
prepared.
   (B)   A person shall be guilty of violating this section if such person has
the responsibility of furnishing accurate information and fails to furnish it
within the time set by the County Commission, or neglects to take reasonable
steps to secure accurate information, compile the same and furnish it to the
County Auditor at the time required for use in the preparation of the county
budget.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2) (Ord. 130, passed 12-27-1990) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
32.02 of this code shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2) (Ord. 130, passed 12-27-1990)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Community Development and Renewal Agency
   
33.001   Agency created
Library Board of Directors
   
33.015   Appointment; membership
   
33.016   Officers; funds
   
33.017   Duties of officers
   
33.018   Delegated powers and duties
   
33.019   Library Director
   
33.020   Meetings
   
33.021   Committees
Fairgrounds Board
   
33.035   Membership; appointments
   
33.036   Officers and duties
   
33.037   Meetings
   
33.038   Committees
   
33.039   Delegated powers and duties
Parks Board
   
33.050   Membership; appointments
   
33.051   Officers
   
33.052   Park funds
   
33.053   Delegated powers and duties
   
33.054   Meetings
   
33.055   Committees
Historical Society
   
33.070   Created
   
33.071   Duties
   
33.072   Amendment to articles
   
33.073   Funding
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL AGENCY
§ 33.001 AGENCY CREATED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of UCA § 17C-1-201.5, the Limited Purpose
Local Government Entities - Community Reinvestment Agency Act (the “Act”), the
county hereby creates a Community Development and Renewal Agency (the
“Agency”), contingent upon the issuance by the Lieutenant Governor of a
certificate of creation under UCA § 67-1a-6.5.
   (B)   The name of the agency shall be the Morgan County Redevelopment
Agency.
   (C)   The geographic boundaries of the Agency shall be coterminous with the
geographic boundaries of the county.
   (D)   Upon creation, the Agency shall be vested with all the powers set
forth in the Act and as otherwise provided by law.
   (E)   The governing body of the Agency shall be a Board consisting of the
members of the County Commission.
   (F)   Within ten days of the adoption hereof, the County Commission shall
file or cause to be filed with the Lieutenant Governor a notice of this
subchapter, including therewith a copy of this subchapter as required by UCA §
17C-1-201.5(2)(a).
   (G)   Upon issuance by the Lieutenant Governor of a certificate of creation
under UCA § 67-1a-6.5, the Agency shall be created and incorporated.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-1) (Ord. 08-05, passed 8-19-2008)
LIBRARY BOARD OF DIRECTORS
§ 33.015 APPOINTMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Membership. Pursuant to the provisions of UCA § 9-7-502, as amended,
the Library Board of Directors shall consist of not less than five and not more
than nine Directors chosen from the citizens of the county and based upon their
fitness for the office.
   (B)   County Commission member. Only one Director of the Board may be a
member of the County Commission at any one time.
   (C)   Appointment. All Directors shall be appointed by the County
Commission. Appointments to the Board shall be made before July 1 of each year
in which an appointment is necessary.
   (D)   Term.
      (1)   Directors shall be appointed to serve for four-year terms, or until
their successors are appointed, and shall not serve more than two consecutive
terms.
      (2)   The terms of Directors shall be staggered so that approximately
one-fourth of the Board is selected each year.
   (E)   Resignation. Any appointed Board Director may resign from such
position by providing written notification to the Chair of such resignation.
The Chair shall thereupon notify the County Commission of such resignation.
   (F)   Vacancies. Vacancies created by resignation, death, removal or
otherwise shall be filled for the duration of the unexpired term in the same
manner as the original appointment.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 04-06, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 33.016 OFFICERS; FUNDS.
   (A)   Officers; term. Officers of the Board shall be a Chair, Vice Chair and
Secretary. They shall be elected by the Board at its October meeting and their
term of office shall be for one year beginning January 1.
   (B)   Custody of funds. The County Treasurer shall have legal custody of all
library funds and shall act as the Treasurer of such funds.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 04-06, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 33.017 DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Chair. The Chair of the Board shall preside at all Board meetings,
authorize calls for any special meetings and generally perform the duties of a
presiding officer.
   (B)   Vice Chair. The Vice Chair shall preside in the Chair’s absence and
perform such other duties as requested by the Chair.
   (C)   Official duties of Chair. The Chair of the Board shall sign or
countersign all official Board documents and, where appropriate, recommend
approval by the County Commission. The Chair shall arrange staff to act as
Clerk of the Board for the purpose of actual minute taking and maintaining
official records of Board actions.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3) (Ord. 04-06, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 33.018 DELEGATED POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Subject to compliance with federal and state law, the Board shall,
with the approval of the County Commission and in accordance with county
ordinances, policies and procedures, be responsible for:
      (1)   The expenditure of the library funds;
      (2)   Establishing policies for the operation, maintenance and care of
the library;
      (3)   Establishing policies for collections and information resources;
      (4)   Establishing policies for the enforcement of library rules and
applicable laws and ordinances, including rules to exclude from the use of the
library any person who willfully violates library rules or state law or county
ordinances; and
      (5)   Other duties related to the library as may be specifically assigned
or delegated to the Board by county ordinance and allowed by law.
   (B)   The Board shall:
      (1)   Recommend to the County Commission a competent person to act as
Library Director (“librarian”), to have immediate charge of the county library
system with those duties specified in a job description recommended by the
Board and approved by the County Commission;
      (2)   Establish and revise library policies in cooperation with the
Library Director, subject to consistency with state and federal law, county
ordinances and policies and review by the County Attorney’s office;
      (3)   Work cooperatively with the County Commission, Library Director,
library staff, other county staff and others in the community to provide
excellent library service;
      (4)   Encourage citizen involvement in the development of long-range
plans for the improvement of library services and facilities;
      (5)   Hear and resolve relevant library issues brought to the Board;
      (6)   Make an annual report to the County Commission on the condition and
operation of the library, including a financial statement;
      (7)   Submit an annual report to the state’s Library Board;
      (8)   Recommend to the County Commission the removal of any Director of
the Board for misconduct or neglect of duty; and
      (9)   Furnish to the County Commission, in writing, and prior to the time
required by law to levy county taxes, an estimate of the amount of monies
necessary to establish, equip and maintain the library and to provide library
services during the next ensuing fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4) (Ord. 04-06, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 33.019 LIBRARY DIRECTOR.
   The Library Director shall:
   (A)   Serve as executive officer for the Board;
   (B)   Be responsible for the administration of the county library system
under the policies established by the Board and approved by the county;
   (C)   Recommend such policies and procedures to the Board that will promote
the efficiency of the library and improve services to its patrons;
   (D)   Be accountable to the County Commission in complying with library
policy, countywide policy, county ordinances and state and federal laws;
   (E)   Be responsible for the maintenance and operation of properties
belonging to county for its library system;
   (F)   Submit regularly and timely reports to the Board and County Commission
on the progress, activities and finances of the library;
   (G)   Ensure the appropriate receipt of non-tax income collection and
expenditure of all county library funds; and
   (H)   Perform other duties as established in the Director’s official job
description.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5) (Ord. 04-06, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 33.020 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Number; quorum. The Board shall have no less than four regular
meetings during a calendar year with the quorum present, whether corporal or by
means of electronic equipment, for the purpose of discussing or acting upon a
matter or matters. For this purpose, a quorum consists of that number of Board
Directors that represents 51% or more of the total number of Board Directors
appointed at the time.
   (B)   Annual meeting. The Board shall have at least one annual meeting held
in the last quarter of each year.
   (C)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called at any time by the
Chair, providing notice thereof is given to the public and all trustees at
least 24 hours in advance.
   (D)   Alternate.
      (1)   If the Board Director who is a member of the County Commission is
unable to attend any Board meeting, then that Director may designate an
alternate to act in that Director’s place.
      (2)   If the member of the County Commission who is a Director of the
Board has designated an alternate to act in that Director’s stead, at any or
all Board meetings, then that alternate’s presence shall count as a Board
Director for purposes of meeting a quorum or voting.
   (E)   Open and public meetings. Meetings shall comply with all requirements
of state law, including, but not limited to, the state’s Open and Public
Meetings Act, as set forth in UCA §§ 52-4-1 et seq.
   (F)   Records. Records of all Board meetings shall be kept, managed,
classified and disclosed as required by county ordinance and state law,
including, but not limited to, the Government Records Access and Management
Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6) (Ord. 04-06, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 33.021 COMMITTEES.
   Ad hoc committees for the study and/or investigation of issues or other
library matters may be appointed by the Chair to serve until the completion of
the work for which they were established.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7) (Ord. 04-06, passed 4-6-2004)
FAIRGROUNDS BOARD
§ 33.035 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The county, by way of ordinance, hereby establishes the Fairgrounds
Board, which Board shall consist of not less than eight members chosen from the
citizens of the county and based upon their fitness for the office. This Board
shall function as an Advisory Board to the County Commission Administrator, who
acts under the direction of the County Commission.
   (B)   The County Commission Administrator and/or a member of the County
Commission will attend all Fairgrounds Board meetings but will not be members
of said Board. The Board, through direction of an elected Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson, will bring all issues related to maintenance and operational needs
to the attention of the Commission Administrator, who will determine all
procedures.
   (C)   Each body or organization represented on the Fairgrounds Board (see
division (F) below) shall have two representatives (with the exception of USU
extension) selected by their organization. Representatives should serve a
minimum of one year. Terms will run on a calendar year. The Fairgrounds Board
shall select two members at large by way of majority vote. Each body or
organization shall be allowed only one vote on all fairground issues.
   (D)   Members of the Board may be removed at any time by a majority vote of
the County Commission with or without cause.
   (E)   The Board will not have authority to bind the county to any contract
or to incur any expense on behalf of the county.
   (F)   Members of the Board shall have representation from each of the
following bodies:
      (1)   Morgan City;
      (2)   County horse 4-H;
      (3)   County Junior Livestock Committee;
      (4)   County Search and Rescue;
      (5)   Morgan Lions Club;
      (6)   Adult riding group;
      (7)   County Rodeo Club;
      (8)   County Fair Board;
      (9)   USU extension (one nonvoting member);
      (10)   Members at large; and
      (11)   Motorized events.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 08-01, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 33.036 OFFICERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Officers shall consist of a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and
Secretary, elected from and by members of the Fairgrounds Board. These officers
shall serve for one year beginning from the time of election.
   (B)   The Board Chairperson shall preside at all Board meetings, authorize
calls for any special meetings and generally perform the duties of a presiding
officer.
   (C)   The Board Vice Chairperson shall preside in the Chairperson’s absence
and perform such other duties as requested by the Chairperson.
   (D)   The Board Secretary shall create and post an agenda and take minutes
of the meetings as established by the state’s Open and Public Meetings Act, as
set forth in UCA §§ 52-4-1 et seq.
   (E)   The County Treasurer shall have legal custody of all Fairgrounds Board
funds and shall act as the Treasurer of such funds.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. 08-01, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 33.037 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall have no less than four regular meetings during a
calendar year with the quorum present, whether corporal or by means of
electronic equipment, i.e., speakerphone or web camera, for the purpose of
discussing or acting upon a matter or matters. For this purpose, a quorum
consists of the number of Board members that represents 51% or more of the
total number of Board members appointed at the time.
   (B)   The Board shall have at least one annual meeting held in the last
quarter of each year. This meeting shall entail a walkthrough of the
fairgrounds property, with the Commission Administrator, to establish needed
repairs and upgrades.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called at any time by the Chairperson,
providing notice thereof is given to the public and all trustees at least 24
hours in advance.
   (D)   If the Chairperson of the Board or Vice Chairperson is unable to
attend any Board meeting, then the Chairperson may designate an alternate to
act in the Chairperson’s place.
   (E)   Meetings shall comply with all requirements of state law, including,
but not limited to, the state’s Open and Public Meetings Act, as set forth in
UCA §§ 52-4-1 et seq.
   (F)   Records of all Board meetings shall be kept, managed, classified and
disclosed as required by county ordinance and state law, including, but not
limited to, the Government Records Access and Management Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3) (Ord. 08-01, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 33.038 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Ad hoc committees for the study and/or investigation of issues or
other fairgrounds matters may be appointed by the Chair to serve until the
completion of the work for which they were established. (Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
(Ord. 08-01, passed 4-20-2010)
§ 33.039 DELEGATED POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Subject to compliance with federal and state law, the Board shall,
with the approval of the County Commission and in accordance with county
ordinances, policies and procedures, be responsible for:
      (1)   Recommendations for the expenditure of the Fairgrounds Fund;
      (2)   Recommending policies for the operation, maintenance and care of
the fairgrounds;
      (3)   Recommending policies for scheduling fairgrounds facilities;
      (4)   Recommending policies for the enforcement of fairgrounds rules and
applicable laws and ordinances, including rules to exclude from the use of the
fairgrounds any person who willfully violates fairgrounds rules, state law or
county ordinances; and
      (5)   Other duties related to the fairgrounds as may be specifically
assigned or delegated to the Board by county ordinance and allowed by law.
   (B)   The Board shall:
      (1)   Recommend revisions to fairgrounds policies in cooperation with the
County Commission Administrator to the County Commission, subject to
consistency with state and federal law, county ordinances and policies and a
review by the County Attorney’s office;
      (2)   Work cooperatively with the County Commission, Commission
Administrator, fairgrounds staff, other county staff and others in the
community to provide an excellent fairgrounds facility;
      (3)   Encourage citizen involvement in the development of long-range
plans for the improvement of fairgrounds services and facilities;
      (4)   Hear and make recommendations to resolve relevant fairgrounds
issues brought to the Board;
      (5)   Make an annual report to the County Commission on the condition and
operation of the fairgrounds; and
      (6)   Remove any member of the Board for misconduct or neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5) (Ord. 08-01, passed 4-20-2010)
PARKS BOARD
§ 33.050 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   Membership. The county, by way of ordinance, hereby establishes the
County Parks Board, which Board shall consist of not less than eight and not
more than 15 members chosen from the citizens of the county and based upon
their fitness for the office. This Board shall function as an Advisory Board to
the county facilities manager, who acts under the direction of the County
Commission.
   (B)   Role of county facilities manager. The county facilities manager and/
or a member of the County Commission will attend all Parks Board meetings but
will not be voting members of said Board. The Board, through direction of an
elected Chairperson and Vice Chairperson will bring all park-related needs and
issues to the attention of the county facilities manager, who will then in
turn, come before the County Commission for approval of funds and park needs.
   (C)   Appointments. All members shall be appointed by the County Commission.
Appointments to the Board shall be made before January 1 each year in which an
appointment is necessary.
   (D)   Terms.
      (1)   Members shall be appointed to serve for three-year terms, initially
with a 1-2-3 cycle, or until their successors are appointed.
      (2)   The terms of members shall be staggered so that approximately one-
third of the Board is selected each year.
   (E)   Resignations; vacancies. Any appointed Board member may resign from
such position by providing written notification to the Chairperson of such
resignation. The Chairperson shall thereupon notify the County Commission of
such resignation. Vacancies created by resignation, death, removal or otherwise
may be filled for the duration of the term in the same manner as the original
appointment.
   (F)   Removal. Members of the Board may be removed at any time by a majority
vote of the County Commission with or without cause.
   (G)   Limitation of Board authority. The Board will not have authority to
bind the county to any contract or to incur any expense on behalf of the
county.
   (H)   Voting representation. Members of the Board shall have one voting
representative from each of the following functioning bodies:
      (1)   Croydon Park;
      (2)   Enterprise Park;
      (3)   Milton Park;
      (4)   Mountain Green Park;
      (5)   Cottonwoods Phase I Park; and
      (6)   Additional county parks as developed.
   (I)   At large members. Additional at large members may be appointed as
voting members as deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 07-10, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 33.051 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Officers. Officers shall consist of a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson
and Secretary, elected from and by members of the Parks Board. These officers
shall serve for one year beginning from the time of election.
   (B)   Chairperson. The Board Chairperson shall preside at all Board
meetings, authorize calls for any special meetings and generally perform the
duties of a presiding officer.
   (C)   Vice Chairperson. The Board Vice Chairperson shall preside in the
Chair’s absence and perform such other duties as requested by the Chairperson.
   (D)   Secretary. The Board Secretary shall create and post an agenda, take
minutes of the meetings and see that all meetings are voice tape recorded as
established by the state’s Public and Open Meetings Act.
   (E)   County Treasurer. The County Treasurer shall have legal custody of all
Parks Board funds and shall act as the Treasurer of such funds.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2) (Ord. 07-10, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 33.052 PARK FUNDS.
   (A)   County Treasurer. The County Treasurer, under the direction of the
County Commission, shall oversee the income and expenditure of all park funds.
   (B)   Accounts. Individual county accounts for each county park shall be
established for the purpose of ensuring that money raised by way of fundraisers
or donations for a specific park, will remain available for that specific
park’s use.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3) (Ord. 07-10, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 33.053 DELEGATED POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Subject to compliance with federal and state law, the Board shall,
with the approval of the County Commission and in accordance with county
ordinances, policies and procedures, be responsible for:
      (1)   Recommendations for the expenditure of park funds;
      (2)   Recommending policies for the operation, maintenance, landscaping
and care of the parks;
      (3)   Recommending policies governing park use;
      (4)   Recommending policies for the enforcement of park rules and
applicable laws and ordinances, including rules to exclude from the use of the
park, any person who willfully violates park rules or state law or county
ordinances; and
      (5)   Other duties related to the parks as may be specifically assigned
or delegated to the Board by county ordinance and allowed by law.
   (B)   The Board shall:
      (1)   Recommend revisions to park policies in cooperation with the county
facilities manager to the County Commission, subject to consistency with state
and federal law, county ordinances and policies and review by the County
Attorney’s office;
      (2)   Work cooperatively with County Commission, county facilities
manager, park staff, other county staff and others in the community to provide
excellent county parks;
      (3)   Encourage citizen involvement in the development of long-range
plans for the improvement of county parks and facilities;
      (4)   Hear and make recommendations to resolve relevant park issues
brought to the Board;
      (5)   Make an annual report to the County Commission on the condition and
operation of all county parks; and
      (6)   Recommend to the County Commission the removal of any member of the
Board for misconduct or neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4) (Ord. 07-10, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 33.054 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Number; quorum. The Board shall have no less than four regular
meetings during a calendar year with the quorum present, whether corporal or by
means of electronic equipment, for the purpose of discussing or acting upon a
matter or matters. For this purpose, a quorum consists of 75% or more of the
total number of voting Board members.
   (B)   Annual meeting. The Board shall have at least one annual meeting held
in the last quarter of each year.
   (C)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called at any time by the
Chairperson, providing notice thereof is given to the public and all trustees
at least 24 hours in advance.
   (D)   Alternates. If the Chairperson of the Board or Vice Chairperson is
unable to attend any Board meeting, then the Chairperson may designate an
alternate to act in the Chairperson’s place. A County Commission member and/or
facilities manager must be in attendance at all Board meetings, or the meeting
will be canceled.
   (E)   Open and public meetings. Meetings shall comply with all requirements
of state law including, but not limited to, the state’s Open and Public
Meetings Act, as set forth in UCA §§ 52-4-1 et seq.
   (F)   Records. Records of all Board meetings shall be kept, managed,
classified and disclosed as required by county ordinance and state law,
including, but not limited to, the Government Records Access and Management
Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 07-10, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 33.055 COMMITTEES.
   Ad hoc committees for the study and/or investigation of issues or other park
matters may be appointed by the Chairperson to serve until the completion of
the work for which they were established.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6) (Ord. 07-10, passed 6-19-2007)
HISTORICAL SOCIETY
§ 33.070 CREATED.
   A Historical Resource Committee shall be established, which Committee shall
be known as the Historical Society. The Historical Society shall possess and
maintain those duties and obligations provided for within state statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1) (Res. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 33.071 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Committee shall be vested with the function of researching,
assembling, preserving and disseminating material and information relevant to
the interpretation and illustration of the social, cultural, economic and
religious history of the county.
   (B)   The Committee shall further have those functions and duties provided
for within state statute as follows.
      (1)   Survey and inventory community historic resources. The Committee
shall conduct or cause to be conducted a survey of the historic, architectural
and archeological resources within the community. The survey shall be
compatible with the state’s Inventory of Historic and Archeological Sites.
Survey and inventory documents shall be maintained and open to the public. The
survey will be updated at least every ten years.
      (2)   Review proposed nominations to national register of historic
places. The Committee shall review and comment to the state historic
preservation officer on all proposed National Register nominations for
properties within the boundaries of the community. When the Committee considers
a National Register nomination which is normally evaluated by professionals in
a specific discipline and that discipline is not represented on the Committee,
the Committee will seek expertise in this area before rendering its decision.
      (3)   Provide advice and information.
         (a)   The Committee shall act in an advisory role to other officials
and departments of local government regarding the identification and protection
of local historic and archeological resources.
         (b)   The Committee shall work toward the continuing education of
citizens regarding historic preservation and the community’s history.
      (4)   Enforcement of state historic preservation laws. The Committee
shall support the enforcement of all state laws relating to historic
preservation.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2) (Res. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 33.072 AMENDMENT TO ARTICLES.
   The articles of the Historical Society shall be amended to provide for the
addition of article 2, paragraph E. A copy of the amended articles containing
the addition of article 2, paragraph E is attached to resolution dated 6-4-1984
and on file in the county office.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3) (Res. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 33.073 FUNDING.
   For the exercise of its authorized function, the Committee may be funded by
public revenue of the county. Additionally, the Committee may accept
contributions and gifts from the general public.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4) (Res. passed 6-4-1984)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Real Property Tax Refund Procedure
   
34.01   Title
   
34.02   Purpose
   
34.03   Notification procedure
   
34.04   Refund of overpaid real property taxes
   
34.05   Credit against current real property taxes due
   
34.06   Reporting and approval of County Commission
Primary Residential Tax Exemption
   
34.20   Authority and purpose
   
34.21   Procedure
   
34.22   Criteria
   
34.23   Grandfather provision
   
34.24   Conflict
   
34.25   State law incorporated
Fees
   
34.40   Adopted fee schedule
   
34.41   Local option transportation corridor preservation fee
Sale of Properties with Delinquent Taxes
   
34.55   Definitions
   
34.56   Bidder registration procedures
   
34.57   Redemption rights and procedures
   
34.58   Prohibited conduct
   
34.59   Conflict of interest prohibitions and disclosure requirements
   
34.60   Criteria for accepting or rejecting bids
   
34.61   Sale ratification procedures
   
34.62   Criteria for granting bidder preference
   
34.63   Method and procedure of payment, fees, and premiums
   
34.64   Procedures for contesting bids and sales
   
34.65   Criteria for striking properties to the county
   
34.66   Procedures for disclosing properties withdrawn from the sale
   
34.67   Disclaimer by county with respect to tax sale procedures
REAL PROPERTY TAX REFUND PROCEDURE
§ 34.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Real Property Tax Overpayment Refund
Procedure.”
(Prior Code, § 1-8B-1) (Ord. 131, passed 6-4-1991)
§ 34.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to adopt procedures pursuant to UCA § 59-
2-1321, as amended, for the refund of real property tax overpayments.
(Prior Code, § 1-8B-2) (Ord. 131, passed 6-4-1991)
§ 34.03 NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE.
   If real property taxes are paid more than once or overpaid on a piece of
real property, the County Treasurer shall make a good faith effort to notify
the owner of record and/or the payor of the real property tax overpayment.
(Prior Code, § 1-8B-3) (Ord. 131, passed 6-4-1991)
§ 34.04 REFUND OF OVERPAID REAL PROPERTY TAXES.
   If real property taxes are paid more than once, or overpaid, on a piece of
property and the payor of the real property taxes requests a refund, the County
Treasurer is hereby directed to refund or pay, as requested by the payor, the
overpayment, without interest, in a timely manner subject to the final approval
of the County Commission as required in §
34.06 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-8B-4) (Ord. 131, passed 6-4-1991)
§ 34.05 CREDIT AGAINST CURRENT REAL PROPERTY TAXES DUE.
   If the real property taxes are paid more than once, or overpaid, on a piece
of real property and the overpayment has not been refunded on or before August
15 of the year following the overpayment, the County Treasurer shall apply the
overpayment against the current year’s real property tax on that same piece of
property, and shall include in the tax notice required by UCA § 59-2-1317, as
amended, a notification of the overpayment applied, thus reducing the balance
due on the current year’s real property taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1-8B-5) (Ord. 131, passed 6-4-1991)
§ 34.06 REPORTING AND APPROVAL OF COUNTY COMMISSION.
   As required by UCA § 59-2-1320, as amended, the County Treasurer shall
present a report to the County Commission for approval.
(Prior Code, § 1-8B-6) (Ord. 131, passed 6-4-1991)
PRIMARY RESIDENTIAL TAX EXEMPTION
§ 34.20 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   The Utah Constitution, Article XIII, § 2(8), and UCA §§ 59-2-102 and 59-2-
103(2) provide that a residential exemption from property tax of 45% is
available for primary residences, and the state legislature enacted UCA § 59-2-
103.5 establishing procedures to obtain an exemption for residential property
and authorizing the county legislative body to adopt an ordinance for the
allowance of a residential exemption for residential property.
(Prior Code, § 1-8C-1) (Ord. 03-08, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 34.21 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application. All owners of “residential property,” as defined in UCA §
59-2-102, shall submit an application to the county’s Board of Equalization for
exemption from property taxes for residential property used as a primary
residence no later than March 1 of the current tax year. The application shall
include the following information:
      (1)   Property parcel number and location address;
      (2)   Name of the applicant;
      (3)   Basis of the applicants’ knowledge of the use of the property;
      (4)   Description of the use of the property;
      (5)   Evidence of domicile of the inhabitants of the property; and
      (6)   Signature of all owners of the property and a certification that
the property is residential property.
   (B)   Exemption for late filing. In the event that an application is not
timely filed, an exemption may be granted by the Board of Equalization on an
individual appeal basis for the current tax year only. Applicants for exemption
shall be accepted for the current year only.
   (C)   Partial exemptions. Except for those properties receiving a partial
residential exemption which are required to file an application each year, the
county’s Board of Equalization may require an owner of the residential property
to file the application described in division (A) above only if:
      (1)   The residential property was ineligible for the residential
exemption authorized under UCA § 59-2-103 during the calendar year immediately
preceding the calendar year for which the owner is seeking to claim the
residential exemption for that residential property; or
      (2)   The county’s Board of Equalization determines that there is reason
to believe that the property no longer qualifies for the residential exemption
in accordance with UCA § 59-2-103.
   (D)   Necessary information requested. The county’s Board of Equalization or
assessor may request or collect information sufficient to verify the primary
residence status and make the determination if the property is entitled to the
residential exemption.
   (E)   Proof of primary residence. If an applicant requests that a property
be designated as a primary residence, the residential exemption shall not be
granted without clear and convincing evidence that the property serves as the
primary residence. The burden of proof shall remain at all times with the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 1-8C-2) (Ord. 03-08, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 34.22 CRITERIA.
   (A)   Primary residence. A PRIMARY RESIDENCE is the location where domicile
has been established. DOMICILE is the place where an individual has a true,
fixed, permanent home and principal establishment, and to which place he or she
has (whenever he or she is absent) the intention of returning. It is the place
in which a person has voluntarily fixed the habitation of himself or herself
and family, not for a mere special or temporary purpose, but with the present
intention of making a permanent home. After domicile has been established, two
things are necessary to create a new domicile: first, an abandonment of the old
domicile; and second, the intention and establishment of a new domicile. The
mere intention to abandon a domicile once established is not of itself
sufficient to create a new domicile; before a person can be said to have
changed his or her domicile, a new domicile must be shown. Factors or objective
evidence determinative of domicile are set forth in Utah Admin. Code R884-24P-
52(5).
   (B)   Apartments, rental housing. To qualify for the residential exemption,
a property need not be owner-occupied. Apartments and other rental housing used
as a primary residence of the occupants qualify for the residential exemption
in accordance with §
34.21 of this code. A primary residence does not include property used for
transient residential use or condominiums used in rental pools. In addition to
other evidence of domicile, only the primary residence that is occupied more
than six months out of the year qualifies for the residential exemption. The
residential exemption is limited to up to one acre of land per residential
dwelling unit on a single property description.
   (C)   Commercial properties. A partial exemption may be applied against the
property taxes of mixed commercial and residential property, but it is presumed
that the entire property is commercial. This presumption may be rebutted by the
filing of the application (referred to under §
34.21 of this code) every year, which includes evidence of domicile of each
qualifying resident. The assessor may require additional information as
necessary to make a determination of the percentage of the property qualifying
for the residential exemption.
(Prior Code, § 1-8C-3) (Ord. 03-08, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 34.23 GRANDFATHER PROVISION.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
34.21(C) of this code, as of the effective date hereof, owner-occupied
residential property, apartments and other rental property being used as the
primary residence of the occupants, where the property is currently listed by
the County Assessor as having a residential exemption shall not be required to
file an application to continue its status.
   (B)   Owner-occupied residential property, apartments and other rental
property being used as the primary residence of the occupants where the
property is subsequently listed by the County Assessor as having a residential
exemption constructed after the effective date hereof, shall not be required to
file the application required in §
34.21(A) of this code; however, should the use change from primary residence,
the property shall no longer be considered exempt and an application under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 1-8C-4) (Ord. 03-08, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 34.24 CONFLICT.
   In the event of any conflict between this subchapter and state or federal
law, the provisions of the latter shall be controlling.
(Prior Code, § 1-8C-5) (Ord. 03-08, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 34.25 STATE LAW INCORPORATED.
   This subchapter shall incorporate the provisions of Utah Admin. Code R884-
24P-52, and criteria for determining primary residence pursuant to UCA §§ 59-2-
102 and 59-2-103.
(Prior Code, § 1-8C-6) (Ord. 03-08, passed 5-20-2003)
FEES
§ 34.40 ADOPTED FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Amended fee schedule.
Amended Fee Schedule
Amended Fee Schedule
Audio CD of public meetings            As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
Audio/video tapes                      As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
Facsimiles (fax)                       As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
Faxing services for recorded documents As set forth in currently adopted fee
and plats (copy costs are additional)  schedule
Mailing of:
   Audio tapes                      As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
   Recorded documents               As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
   Scanned documents                As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
   All other mailings               As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
Off-site copying                       As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
Official recorded documents copies     As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
Photocopies (8 1/2" x 11")             As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
Plat copies:
   Aerial photos                    As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
   Ownership plats                  As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
   Recorded plats and filed surveys As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
Plotter copies                         As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
Property tax records copies            As set forth in currently adopted fee
                                       schedule
Note: There will be a fee as set forth in currently adopted fee schedule
charged whenever payment is by credit/debit card.
 
   (B)   Additional fees.
      (1)   In addition to the costs noted in division (A) above, a fee may be
charged to recover the costs:
         (a)   For staff time for summarizing, compiling or tailoring the
record either into an organization or media to meet the person’s request; or
         (b)   For the cost of staff time for search, retrieval and other
direct administrative costs for complying with a request; provided, however,
that the hourly charge will not exceed the salary of the lowest paid employee
who, in the discretion of the custodian of records, has the necessary skill and
training to perform the request; and further provided, that no charge will be
made for the first quarter hour of staff time. Where the record is the result
of computer output other than word processing, the fee will include the actual
incremental cost of providing the electronic services and products, together
with a reasonable portion of the costs associated with formatting or
interfacing the information for particular users.
      (2)   Fees may be waived or modified at the discretion of the department
where:
         (a)   Releasing the record primarily benefits the public rather than
the person;
         (b)   The individual requesting the record is the subject of the
record;
         (c)   The individual is legally authorized to receive the record on
behalf of the subject of the record;
         (d)   The requester’s legal rights are directly implicated by the
information in the record, and the requester is impecunious; and
         (e)   The department head determines that sending the records
electronically is of a de minimis cost to the department.
   (C)   Records. Audio records of various Commission and Commission meetings
will be maintained for a period of one year.
(Prior Code, § 1-8E-1) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 34.41 LOCAL OPTION TRANSPORTATION CORRIDOR PRESERVATION FEE.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the “Local Option Transportation
Corridor Preservation Fee Ordinance for the County.”
(Prior Code, § 1-8F-1)
   (B)   Purpose. The state legislature has authorized counties to enact a
local option transportation corridor preservation fee that may be collected at
the time application is made for registration or renewal of registration of a
motor vehicle under assessment and collection of fee pursuant to UCA §§ 72-2-
117, 72-2-117.5 and 41-1a-1222, as currently amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-8F-2)
   (C)   Effective date. This section became effective as of July 1, 2017.
(Prior Code, § 1-8F-3)
   (D)   Fee. There is hereby assessed upon each motor vehicle, at the time
application is made for registration or renewal of registration of the motor
vehicle, a fee as established by County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1-8F-4)
   (E)   Exemption. A motor vehicle that is exempt from the registration fee
under UCA §§ 41-1a-1209 or 41-1a-419(3), as currently amended, is also exempt
from this local option transportation corridor preservation fee. A commercial
motor vehicle with a portioned registration under UCA § 41-1a-301, as currently
amended, is exempt from the local option transportation corridor preservation
fee.
(Prior Code, § 1-8F-5)
   (F)   Use.
      (1)   The revenue generated from collection of the fee shall be:
         (a)   Deposited in the Local Option Transportation Corridor
Preservation Fund created in UCA §§ 72-2-117 and 72-2-117.5, as currently
amended; and
         (b)   Used and distributed in accordance with UCA § 72-2-117.5, as
currently amended.
      (2)   The County Commission shall, upon finding that the requirements of
UCA § 72-2-117.5, as amended, are met may approve the expenditure of funds from
the Local Option Transportation Corridor Preservation Fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-8F-6)
   (G)   Notice. Notice shall be given by the county before a fee is enacted,
changed or repealed. The notice shall include:
      (1)   A statement that the county will enact, change or repeal the fee;
      (2)   A copy of the ordinance imposing the fee; and
      (3)   The amount of the enactment or change in the fee.
(Prior Code, § 1-8F-7)
(Ord. 17-19, passed 3-21-2017)
SALE OF PROPERTIES WITH DELINQUENT TAXES
§ 34.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE COST. Expenses incurred by the county in preparation of the
tax sale.
   BID. A binding offer of a purchase price for a property.
   BIDDER. A natural person, husband and wife, or a licensed business entity.
   COLLUSIVE BIDDING. Any agreement or understanding reached by two or more
parties that in any way alerts the bids the parties would otherwise offer
absent the agreement or understanding.
   PUBLIC EMPLOYEE. A person who is not a public officer who is employed on a
full-time, part-time, or contract basis by the county.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. All elected or appointed officers of the county who occupy
policy making posts.
   SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST. The ownership, either legally or equitably, by an
individual, the individual’s spouse, or the individual’s minor children, or at
least 10% of the outstanding capital stock of a corporation or 10% interest in
any other business entity.
   TAX SALE. The sale of properties with delinquent property tax due as
authorized in UCA §§ 59-2-1351 et seq.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 34.56 BIDDER REGISTRATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The county tax sale auction will be conducted via an internet website
only. Each bidder must register with the online company conducting the tax
sale. The name of the auction company will be indicated on the county website.
Bid deposits may be necessary to register as a bidder. This process must be
completed no later than the date and time indicated.
   (B)   The county nor the online auction company can or will be held
responsible for late or misdirected bid deposits, proxy bids, or any other
transmission, mailing, email, or other correspondence necessary to participate
in the bid.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 34.57 REDEMPTION RIGHTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A property may be redeemed in behalf of the record owner, by any
person, at any time prior to the start of the tax sale, on the scheduled date.
Property is redeemed by paying to the County Treasurer, all delinquent taxes,
interest, penalties, and administrative costs which have accrued on the
property.
   (B)   Paying the delinquent amount does not grant ownership to the
individual(s) or party(s) paying all delinquent taxes, interest penalties, and
administrative costs. This only removes the property from the tax sale.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 34.58 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Collusive bidding is not permitted and is punishable as a Class C
misdemeanor. Collusive bidding means to conspire to rig bids or fix prices to
make it difficult or impossible for other individuals to take part or
participate in the bidding process.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.59 CONFLICT OF INTEREST PROHIBITIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every county official or employee who purchases or has a substantial
interest in any business entity which purchases property at the tax sale must
disclose said interest in a sworn statement filed with the County Clerk and a
copy of which provided to the County Commission, County Attorney’s Office, and
their immediate supervisor. These disclosures are public information and shall
be available to the public for inspection.
   (B)   No official or employee may have a personal investment in a business
entity which will create a substantial conflict between their private interest
and their public duties related to the tax sale.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 34.60 CRITERIA FOR ACCEPTING OR REJECTING BIDS.
   (A)   All bidding shall be conducted through the online company conducting
the tax sale for the county. Bidding will advance in increments of a minimum of
$100 or as indicated on each parcel listed for sale with the minimum acceptable
bid starting at taxes which includes delinquent taxes, penalties, interest, and
administration fee.
   (B)   All bids shall be considered conditional, whether or not the bid is
contested, until reviewed and accepted by the Board of County Commissioners
acting at a regularly scheduled Commission meeting.
   (C)   The county reserves the right to reject any and/or all bids.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
  § 34.61 SALE RATIFICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The County Clerk/Auditor, or assigned deputy, shall present the
results of the delinquent tax sale no later than two regularly scheduled
Commission meetings after the sale. The County Clerk/Auditor, or assigned
deputy, will inform the Commission regarding the number of properties sold, the
number of properties struck off to the county, and the high bid amount for each
property offered for sale at the tax sale.
   (B)   The County Commission may ratify the results of the tax sale after
hearing the details offered by the County Clerk/Auditor or assigned deputy.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 34.62 CRITERIA FOR GRANTING BIDDER PREFERENCE.
   All bidders have an equal opportunity to offer a bid on properties. Bids may
be placed incrementally, or by auto bid in which a bidder’s maximum offer is
confidentially recorded by the system. Bidders who make a bona fide bid in the
highest amount for a property become the successful bidder of the property
auction.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 34.63 METHOD AND PROCEDURE OF PAYMENT, FEES, AND PREMIUMS.
   (A)   All bids are an irrevocable offer to purchase the property in
question. A bidder is legally and financially responsible for all properties
bid upon. Payment in full by certified check/money order or credit card will be
required not later than five business days after the tax sale closes, unless
otherwise advertised. No personal checks will be accepted.
   (B)   A recording fee is required in addition to the winning bid. Premiums
charged by the online auction company may be associated with the sale of
properties. This amount will be added to the winning bid and will be included
in the total purchase price paid by the buyer to the seller. If the payment
policy is not adhered to, the successful bidder will be considered in default.
Any bid deposits will be forfeited to the County Treasurer and the successful
bidder will be banned from future sales. The County Treasurer reserves the
right to pursue all available legal remedies against a non-paying bidder.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 34.64 PROCEDURES FOR CONTESTING BIDS AND SALES.
   Any person wishing to contest any action takes in connection with the county
tax sale must present protest to the County Commission, through the County
Clerk/Auditor’s Office in writing, within ten calendar days of the sale.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 34.65 CRITERIA FOR STRIKING PROPERTIES TO THE COUNTY.
   (A)   Any parcel which does not receive a minimum bid shall be struck off to
the county. Parcels struck off to the county may be available for sale through
the County Clerk/Auditor’s Office when approved by the County Commission.
   (B)   Upon any final bid being rejected, the parcel may be offered to a
bidder who offered the second highest bid in the amount of that bid. If the
second highest bidder rejects the offer, the property shall be struck off to
the county.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
  § 34.66 PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSING PROPERTIES WITHDRAWN FROM THE SALE.
   (A)   The auction website will update the list of properties as often as
possible, until the week leading up to the tax sale, then it will update once a
day until the start of the sale. The county website will be updated daily with
any changes in the available properties. If the list is published in a local
newspaper, it will be updated with any changes prior to its publication each
week.
   (B)   Any properties which are redeemed or removed immediately prior to the
beginning of the live auction the day of the tax sale, will be stricken and
removed from live bidding prior to the close of the bid group.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 34.67 DISCLAIMER BY COUNTY WITH RESPECT TO TAX SALE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Properties sold via the online county tax sale shall be conveyed by
Auditor’s tax deed. The form of deed is not a warranty deed. No warranty or
guarantee is made, expressed or implied, relative to the title, location, or
condition of properties for sale. In addition, the county assumes no
responsibility, implies, or otherwise, that tax sale properties are in
compliance with zoning ordinances, mining and reclamation regulations, building
codes and permits, and/or any other applicable regulations or permits. In
addition, the county makes no warranties or representations as to whether the
property is buildable or developable.
   (B)   Any property sold pursuant to the tax sale is without guarantee or
warranty whatsoever as to existence, correctness of ownership, size,
boundaries, location, structures, or lack of structures upon the land, liens,
titles, or any other matter or thing whatsoever. The county does not warrant or
represent that any property purchased during the tax sale is habitable or in
any particular condition.
   (C)   The county also makes no warranties or representations regarding the
accuracy of the assessment of the property or accuracy of the legal description
of the real estate or improvements thereon. It is the responsibility of the
bidder to determine the physical aspects of the property, its geographical
location, and accessibility. The county makes no warranties regarding the
availability, validity, or existence of water rights associated with any of the
properties sold during tax sale.
   (D)   It is the bidder’s responsibility to determine the liabilities,
including other liens and encumbrances, that exist on each property before and
after the sale. The properties are sold as is. Additionally, the county is not
liable in any way whatsoever for damages sustained to property purchased from
the time of the sale until the recordation of the tax deed to a purchaser.
   (E)   All properties sold at the county tax sale fall under the rule of
caveat emptor, or let the buyer beware, and all purchasers are accordingly
hereby so notified.
(Ord. 22-10, passed 5-3-2022)
CHAPTER 35: TAXES
Section
Transient Room Tax
   
35.01   Title
   
35.02   Purpose
   
35.03   Statutes adopted by reference
   
35.04   Definition
   
35.05   Tax imposed
   
35.06   Exclusions
   
35.07   Convention Bureau Special Reserve Fund
   
35.08   Contributions and donations permitted
   
35.09   Audits
   
35.10   Remittance of tax
   
35.11   Appeals
Sales and Use Tax
   
35.25   Title
   
35.26   Authority and purpose
   
35.27   Effective date
   
35.28   Sales and use tax
Optional Sales and Use Tax
   
35.40   Title
   
35.41   Statutory authority
   
35.42   Purpose
   
35.43   Imposition of tax
   
35.44   Incorporation of state law
   
35.45   Administration, collection and distribution by state
   
35.46   Exemptions
   
35.47   Effective date
Tourism, Recreation, Cultural and Convention Tax
   
35.60   Title
   
35.61   Authority
   
35.62   Definitions
   
35.63   Tax imposed
   
35.64   Use of revenue
   
35.65   Collection, distribution
   
35.66   Additional license
 
   
35.99   Penalty
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
§ 35.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Transient Room Tax Ordinance of
Morgan County.”
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-1)
§ 35.02 PURPOSE.
   The County Commission declares that this subchapter is adopted to achieve
the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish these purposes:
   (A)   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in UCA §§ 17-31 and 59-12-3, as amended;
   (B)   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of UCA §§ 17-31 and 59-12-3, as amended;
   (C)   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that imposes a tax not to
exceed 4.25% and provide a measure therefor that can be administered and
collected in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practical to the existing
statutory and administrative procedure followed by the state’s Tax Commission
in administering and collecting the sales and use taxes of the state; and
   (D)   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will provide funds for the purposes of establishing, financing and
promoting tourism, recreation and convention bureaus and such other purposes as
have been authorized by law for the expenditure of transient room taxes and for
that purpose create, at the discretion of the county, a reserve fund comprised
of any funds collected but not expended during any financial year.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-2)
§ 35.03 STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All applicable provisions of UCA §§ 17-31 and 59-12-3, as amended, are
hereby incorporated herein and made a part of this subchapter by this reference
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-3)
§ 35.04 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, TRANSIENT is any individual who occupies
any suite, room or rooms in a motel, hotel, motor court, inn or similar public
accommodation for fewer than 30 consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-4)
§ 35.05 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied on all persons, companies, corporations or
other like and similar persons, groups or organizations doing business in the
county as a motel, hotel, motor court, inns or like and similar public
accommodations, a transient room tax at the rate of 4.25% of the rent for every
occupancy of a suite, room or rooms by a transient.
   (B)   Except as herein after provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of UCA § 17-31 and Title 59, Chapter 12, Part
3, as amended from time to time, all of the provisions of UCA Title 59, Chapter
12, Part 1, as amended, known as the Sales and Use Tax Act, and all of the
provisions of UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 2, as amended, known as the Local
Sales and Use Tax Act, are hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter as
though fully set forth herein to the extent the said provisions are relevant
and pertinent to the administration and the collection of taxes by the county.
   (C)   Wherever and to the extent that in UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1,
as amended, the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
the county shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this division (C) shall be
deemed to require substitution of the name of the county for the word “state”
when that word is used as part of the title of the state’s Tax Commission, or
the Constitution of the state.
   (D)   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under UCA § 59-12-
106, as amended, an additional license shall not be required by reason of this
section, but a copy of such license shall be provided to the county within 30
days after the effective date hereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-5) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.06 EXCLUSIONS.
   There shall be excluded from the rent paid or charged by which the tax is
measured:
   (A)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state or by any
other governmental agency upon a retailer or consumer; and
   (B)   Receipts from the sale or service charge for any food or beverage or
room service charges in conjunction with the occupancy of the suite, room or
rooms.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-6)
§ 35.07 CONVENTION BUREAU SPECIAL RESERVE FUND.
   For the purposes authorized by this subchapter, there is hereby created a
Reserve Fund, to be known as the Convention Bureau Special Reserve Fund, which
shall be maintained separate and apart from general and other special funds of
the county, and in which shall be deposited any and all funds collected by
virtue of the tax imposed hereby but not expended during the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-7)
§ 35.08 CONTRIBUTIONS AND DONATIONS PERMITTED.
   The County Commission is authorized to accept, on behalf of the county,
funds contributed, donated or supplied by any person, corporation, other
governmental agency or from any other source whatever for the purposes outlined
in this subchapter. When such funds are received, they shall be deposited and
used in the same manner as though they were derived from the tax imposed
hereby.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-8)
§ 35.09 AUDITS.
   (A)   Any records or other information of any person, corporation, company
or other group or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this subchapter
which relate to occupancy and occupancy revenues or to the calculation,
collection or remittance to the county of said taxes, shall be subject to
review and inspection by the county. Audits of such records and information or
the supporting records therefor shall be the responsibility of the state’s Tax
Commission.
   (B)   The records of the state’s Tax Commission relating to the collection
of sales and use taxes, or tourism, recreation and convention center taxes on
the same transactions which are the subject to this tax shall be subject to
review and audit as provided in the county’s contract with the state’s Tax
Commission for the collection of the local sales and use tax and as provided by
law.
   (C)   The taxpayer shall also be subject to such audits and reviews by the
state’s Tax Commission as are provided for by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-9)
§ 35.10 REMITTANCE OF TAX.
   The tax shall be remitted as directed by the county and a tax return filed
on forms provided or approved by the county at such times and with such
frequency as are provided for by state law. All returns filed pursuant hereto
shall accurately identify the locations where the transactions occurred and the
gross sales upon which the tax for each location is computed.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-10) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.11 APPEALS.
   Any party aggrieved by any action of the county relating to the assessment,
calculation or collection of the tax, including any notice of deficiency
issued, may request a hearing by filing a written request for hearing as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-11)
SALES AND USE TAX
§ 35.25 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Sales and Use Tax Ordinance of Morgan
County.”
(Prior Code, § 3-5B-1) (Ord. 127, passed 1-16-1990)
§ 35.26 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The forty-eighth session of the state legislature has authorized the
counties and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances
imposing a 1% tax.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to conform the sales and use tax
of the county to the requirements of the Sales and Use Tax Act, UCA § 59-12, as
currently amended.
(Prior Code, § 3-5B-2) (Ord. 127, passed 1-16-1990)
§ 35.27 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter became effective as of 12:01 a.m. January 1, 1990.
(Prior Code, § 3-5B-3) (Ord. 127, passed 1-16-1990)
§ 35.28 SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   Imposed.
      (1)   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the county at the rate of 1%.
      (2)   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in this county of tangible personal property from any retailer on
or after the operative date hereof, at the rate of 1% of the sales price of the
property.
      (3)   For the purpose of this subchapter, all retail sales shall be
presumed to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the
retailer or his or her agent to an out of state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out of state destination. In the event a retailer
has no permanent place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules and regulations
prescribed by and adopted by the state’s Tax Commission. “Public utilities,” as
defined by UCA Title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or
places within any county or municipality where public utility services are
rendered, but the place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such
service allocable to the county shall be as determined by the state’s Tax
Commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   (B)   Statutes adopted.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act, all of the
provisions of UCA § 59-12, as amended, and in force and effect on the effective
date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales taxes, are hereby adopted and made
a part of this subchapter as though fully set forth herein.
      (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that in UCA § 59-12, the state is named
or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the county shall be
substituted therefor. Nothing in this division (B)(2) shall be deemed to
require substitution of the name of the county for the word “state” when that
word is used as part of the title of the state’s Tax Commission, or of the
Constitution of the state, nor shall the name of the county be substituted for
that of the state in any section when the result of that substitution would
require action to be taken by or against the county, or any agency thereof,
rather than by or against the state’s Tax Commission in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Additional license not required. If an annual license has been issued
to a retailer under UCA § 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be
required by reason of this section.
   (D)   Exclusions. There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or
charged by which the tax is measured:
      (1)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer; and
      (2)   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax
has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality and
any county in the state under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by that
county or municipality in accordance with the Sales and Use Tax Act.
(Prior Code, § 3-5B-4) (Ord. 127, passed 1-16-1990) Penalty, see §
35.99
OPTIONAL SALES AND USE TAX
§ 35.40 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Optional County Sales and Use Tax.”
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-1) (Ord. 183, passed 9-3-1997)
§ 35.41 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The authority for imposing this tax is derived from UCA §§ 59-12-1101 et
seq.
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-2) (Ord. 183, passed 9-3-1997)
§ 35.42 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted to provide the county with a source of revenue to
allow the county to more effectively carry out its role as a political and
legal subdivision of the state. The County Commission hereby directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted and construed to accomplish this stated
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-3) (Ord. 183, passed 9-3-1997)
§ 35.43 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   In addition to all other taxes imposed, the county does hereby impose
and levy for collection a sales and use tax of 0.25% upon the sales and uses
described in UCA § 59-12-103(1), subject to the exemptions provided for in UCA
§ 59-12-104. This tax is imposed upon all sales and uses made in the county,
including sales and uses made within the corporate limits of the cities and
towns of the county. Provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to the
provisions of the sales and use tax laws of the state, to which reference is
hereinafter made in this subchapter and which are hereby enacted and made part
of this subchapter as though fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Pursuant to UCA §§ 59-12-2219 and 59-12-2217, effective April 1, 2023,
there shall be a 0.25% sales and use tax defined in UCA § 59-12-2219 and a
0.25% sales and use tax defined in UCA § 59-12-2217 for transportation imposed
on all goods and services within the county.
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-4) (Ord. 183, passed 9-3-1997; Ord. passed 22-19, passed
11-22-2022)
§ 35.44 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with provisions of the county’s Optional Sales and Use Tax Act,
all the provisions of UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1, as amended, in force
and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to the tax
imposed by this subchapter, are adopted and made a part of this subchapter as
though fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Wherever and to the extent that in UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1,
the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the county
shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this division (B) shall be deemed to
require substitution of the name of the county for the word “state” when that
word is used as part of the title of the state’s Tax Commission, or the
Constitution of the state, nor shall the name of the county be substituted for
that of the state in any section when the result of that substitution would
require action to be taken by or against the county, or any agency thereof,
rather than by or against the state’s Tax Commission in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-5) (Ord. 183, passed 9-3-1997)
§ 35.45 ADMINISTRATION, COLLECTION AND DISTRIBUTION BY STATE.
   (A)   Taxes imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be levied at the same
time and collected in the same manner as provided for in UCA §§ 59-12-201 et
seq., as amended, except that the revenue derived from the tax is not subject
to the collection and distribution procedures established pursuant to the
provisions of UCA § 59-12-205(2), as amended. Revenues collected pursuant to
this subchapter shall be distributed in accordance with UCA § 59-12-1102 and
the rules adopted by the state’s Tax Commission pursuant to UCA § 59-12-1102.
All revenues so collected shall be revenues of either the county, or of any
other county entitled to distribution of the same pursuant to the statute.
   (B)   Any records, tax returns or other information of any person,
corporation, company or other group or organization subject to the taxes
imposed by this subchapter which relate to the calculation, collection or
remittance to the state’s Tax Commission of such taxes shall be subject to
review, inspection and auditing by the county.
   (C)   The fee charged the county by the state’s Tax Commission under UCA §
59-12-206, as amended, shall be based on the distribution amount resulting
after all the applicable distribution calculations under UCA § 59-12-1102 have
been made.
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-6) (Ord. 183, passed 9-3-1997)
§ 35.46 EXEMPTIONS.
   The sale, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property,
which is exempt from sales or use taxation, pursuant to UCA § 59-12-104, is
exempt from the application of the optional county sales and use tax.
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-7) (Ord. 183, passed 9-3-1997)
§ 35.47 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter took effect January 1, 1998.
(Prior Code, § 3-5C-8) (Ord. 183, passed 9-3-1997)
TOURISM, RECREATION, CULTURAL AND CONVENTION TAX
§ 35.60 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Tourism, Recreation, Cultural and
Convention Tax of Morgan County,” hereinafter referred to as “tourism tax.”
(Prior Code, § 3-5D-1) (Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 35.61 AUTHORITY.
   The tourism tax is authorized by UCA §§ 59-12-601.1 et seq., as currently
amended.
(Prior Code, § 3-5D-2) (Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 35.62 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONVENTION FACILITY. Any publicly-owned or -operated convention center,
sports arena or other facility at which conventions, conferences and other
gatherings are held, and whose primary business or function is to host such
conventions, conferences and other gatherings.
   CULTURAL FACILITY. Any publicly-owned or -operated museum, theater, art
center, music hall or other cultural or arts facility.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, except vehicles moved
solely by human power and motorized wheelchairs.
   RECREATION FACILITY or TOURIST FACILITY. Any publicly-owned or -operated
park, campground, marina, dock, golf course, water park, historic park,
monument, planetarium, zoo, bicycle trail and other recreation or tourism-
related facility.
   RESTAURANT. 
      (1)   Includes any coffee shop, cafeteria, luncheonette, soda fountain or
fast food service where food is prepared for immediate consumption.
      (2)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any retail establishment whose primary business or function is
the sale of fuel or food items for off-premises, but not immediate,
consumption; or
         (b)   A theater that sells food items, but not a dinner theater.
(Prior Code, § 3-5D-3) (Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 35.63 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed a tourism, recreation, cultural and convention tax
on the following activities at the rates set forth below:
   (A)   A 1% tax on the sales of prepared foods and beverages that are sold by
restaurants located within the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the
county; and
   (B)   A 3% tax on all short-term leases and rentals of motor vehicles not
exceeding 30 days, except such leases and rentals of motor vehicles when made
for the purpose of temporally replacing a person’s motor vehicle that is being
repaired pursuant to a repair or an insurance agreement as authorized by UCA §
59-12-603(1)(a)(i)(A). In addition thereto, a 4% tax on all short-term leases
and rentals of motor vehicles not exceeding 30 days, except such leases and
rentals of motor vehicles when made for the purpose of temporally replacing a
person’s motor vehicle that is being repaired pursuant to a repair or an
insurance agreement as authorized by UCA § 59-12-603(1)(a)(i)(B).
(Prior Code, § 3-5D-4) (Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 35.64 USE OF REVENUE.
   The revenue from the imposition of the taxes provided for in this subchapter
shall be used solely for the purpose of financing, in whole or part, tourism
promotion and the development, operation and maintenance of tourist,
recreation, cultural and convention facilities, as defined in §
35.62 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-5D-5) (Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 35.65 COLLECTION, DISTRIBUTION.
   The tax imposed under this subchapter shall be levied at the same time and
collected in the same manner as the local sales and use tax, except that the
collection and distribution of the tax revenue is not subject to the provisions
of UCA § 59-12-205(2), as currently amended (the requirement that sales taxes
be distributed to cities or towns within the county).
(Prior Code, § 3-5D-6) (Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 35.66 ADDITIONAL LICENSE.
   As it relates to licensor, the following shall apply:
   (A)   All persons, companies, corporations or other similar persons, groups
or organizations doing business as “restaurants,” as defined in §
35.62 of this code, shall obtain from the state’s Tax Commission a tourism,
recreation, cultural or convention tax license. No such additional license
shall be required by the county if the person, company, corporation, group or
organization has obtained a license pursuant to UCA § 59-12-106, as amended;
and
   (B)   All persons, companies, corporations or other similar persons, groups
or organizations who lease or rent “motor vehicles,” as defined in §
35.62 of this code, shall obtain from the state’s Tax Commission a tourism,
recreation, cultural or convention tax license. No such additional license
shall be required by the county if the person, company, corporation, group or
organization has obtained a license pursuant to UCA § 59-12-106, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 3-5D-7) (Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who fails to file any tax return or information required by
§§
35.01 through
35.11 of this code, who fails to pay any tax due hereunder or who fails to
timely pay such tax, shall be subject to the imposition of penalties and
interest in accordance with UCA §§ 59-1-401 and 59-1-402 or any successor
provision thereto.
(Prior Code, § 3-5A-12)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
35.25 through
35.28 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-5B-5)
(Ord. 127, passed 1-16-1990)
CHAPTER 36: PURCHASING PROCEDURES
Section
   
36.01   Purchasing agent
   
36.02   Purchase orders, contracts by competitive bid
   
36.03   Purchase orders and contracts not requiring bids
   
36.04   Authorized requisitioning agents
   
36.05   Advertising for bids
   
36.06   Bonds of bidders may be required
   
36.07   Purchase orders required
   
36.08   Disposal of surplus property
§ 36.01 PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   Appointment; responsibilities. The County Commission shall appoint a
county purchasing agent. The purchasing agent shall carry out the
responsibilities set forth in this chapter and other duties as the County
Commission may elect to incorporate into this chapter, or by policy, and shall
comply with all other county ordinances and policies.
   (B)   Commission Administrator designated. The county purchasing agent shall
be the Commission Administrator. As such, the purchasing agent shall adhere to
county personnel policies and procedures.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   The county purchasing agent shall be responsible to administer the
purchasing operations in such a manner as to comply with procurement and
property disposition policies as may be established by the County Commission by
policy declarations and/or as incorporated in this chapter.
      (2)   Any changes or modifications to this chapter or corresponding
policy shall be made in accordance with regularly established procedures.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-1) (Ord. 179, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 36.02 PURCHASE ORDERS, CONTRACTS BY COMPETITIVE BID.
   (A)   Scope. All purchases and/or contracts, whether by sealed bid,
quotation or negotiation, shall be made on a competitive basis to the maximum
practical extent.
   (B)   Purchases exceeding $5,000.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided within this chapter, all purchase
orders and contracts in an amount more than $5,000 shall be bid in a manner
calculated to promote the best interest of the public. All bids or quotations
in excess of $5,000 shall be in writing, and the purchasing agent shall attempt
to obtain at least three competitive bids or quotations.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided within this chapter, all purchase
orders and other contracts of every kind involving amounts in excess of $5,000
for personal service or for the purchase, lease, rental or sale of personal
property, materials, equipment or supplies, shall be awarded by competitive
bidding, after public advertising, to the lowest responsible bidder, or in the
case of the county being the seller, to the highest responsible bidder.
   (C)   Rejection of bids. After advertising once for competitive bids for
professional services, the purchasing agent, upon review of the completed bids
and upon the advice of the appropriate technical department personnel, can
declare the bids unacceptable. The reasons for rejections of the completed bids
may relate to all or some part of the bid requirements or because the bids
exceed the estimated construction costs by an amount that is unacceptable to
the county. No negotiated purchase or contract may be entered into under this
division (C) after rejection of all bids received unless notification of the
intention to negotiate and reasonable opportunity to negotiate shall have been
given by the purchasing agent to each responsible bidder whose bid conformed to
the invitation for bids. The purchasing agent may also, at his or her
discretion, elect to readvertise for bids.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-2) (Ord. 179, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 36.03 PURCHASE ORDERS AND CONTRACTS NOT REQUIRING BIDS.
   (A)   Review required. Purchase orders which are not negotiated by the
purchasing agent do not supersede the requirement that they still must be
reviewed by the purchasing agent prior to obligation by the county to ensure
that such an order does not violate §
36.02 of this code.
   (B)   Circumstances not requiring bids. All purchase orders and other
contracts for professional services and supplies shall be awarded after
soliciting bids or quotations as provided in §
36.02 of this code, except that certain purchase orders may be negotiated by
the purchasing agent, or such other person as may be authorized by this
chapter, without bids, quotations and advertising when by their nature said
purchase orders or contracts are not adapted to award by competitive bidding
due to the reasons including, but not limited to, those cited below:
      (1)   Contracts or purchase orders for the services of individuals
possessing a high degree of professional skill where the ability or fitness of
the individual plays an important part of the selection and is through a
request for proposal (RFP) or request for qualifications (RFQ) process;
      (2)   Utility services, such as water, electric power, natural gas,
telephone, mobile phone and telegraph, except when alternative supplies or
services are available;
      (3)   The purchase of magazines, books, trade journals, reference
material, periodicals, examination of testing materials and similar articles of
an educational, informational or instructional nature;
      (4)   When public demand will not be tolerant of the delay incident to
the advertising for, or solicitation of, bids; (Purchases under this division
(B)(4) shall be based on a need that was compelling and of unusual urgency, as
when the county would be seriously injured financially or otherwise if the
personal property or services were not furnished by a certain time, and when
they could not be procured by that time by means of advertising, bidding and/or
solicitation of quotations as provided in §
36.02 of this code.)
      (5)   Purchases from vendors who are under a state procurement contract
and when the price is that price established by the state contract awarded
after competitive bidding pursuant to the state’s Procurement Code, UCA §§ 63G-
6a-101 et seq. and have met the requirement of §
36.07 of this code;
      (6)   Contracts for goods and services made available by any federal,
state or local unit of government, or association of governments, when these
goods or services were acquired in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter;
      (7)   When a product or service which can only be procured from a single
source, manufacturer or distributor and no reasonable, similar alternative
exists;
      (8)   Purchase of data processing equipment when the county interest
requires compatibility with existing system designs and said purchases are
negotiated after consideration of any alternatives, and when the costs of
alternatives would exceed the negotiated price;
      (9)   Negotiated purchase of outside legal counsel and/or other
professional services which are paid from the non-department insurance account;
      (10)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the
purchasing agent, or his or her designee, may make emergency procurement when
there exists a threat to public health, welfare or safety under emergency
conditions; provided, that such emergency purchases are made with such
competition as is practical under the circumstances. EMERGENCY CONDITIONS are
defined, and procedures are outlined as follows:
         (a)   An emergency situation is one which creates a threat to public
health, welfare or safety such as may arise by reason of flood, epidemic, riot,
equipment failure, earthquake or such other reason as may be declared an
emergency condition by the County Commission. The existence of such conditions
must create an immediate need for materials, supplies, services or
constructions that cannot be met through normal procurement method, and the
lack of which would seriously threaten:
            1.   The function of county government;
            2.   The preservation or protection of public or private property;
or
            3.   The health or safety of any person.
         (b)   Emergency procurement shall be limited to those supplies,
services or construction necessary to meet the emergency, and whenever
practical, authorization must be received from the purchasing agent or County
Commission.
      (11)   Any other contract not adapted to competitive bidding when the
County Commission specifically cites reasons therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-3) (Ord. 179, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 36.04 AUTHORIZED REQUISITIONING AGENTS.
   (A)   Department head. Requisitions for materials shall be authorized by
department heads who may delegate this authority if they give the purchasing
agent the names of those employees to whom they have delegated that authority.
   (B)   Requisitions submitted. All properly completed requisitions for which
purchase orders are required will be submitted to the purchasing agent. A
requisition will be considered properly completed when it contains the
description of materials or services, the correct appropriation account and
shipping code and has been signed by an authorized requisition agent.
   (C)   Splitting purchases prohibited. Purchases in excess of amounts
specified in §
36.02(B) of this code cannot be split into parts by any concerned party so as
to produce amounts less than those stated, for the purpose of avoiding the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-4) (Ord. 179, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 36.05 ADVERTISING FOR BIDS.
   (A)   Publication; posting.
      (1)   Whenever advertising for bids, RFPs or RFQs as required by this
subchapter, said advertising shall be published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation and posted in at least two public places in the county.
      (2)   Said advertisement shall include the following:
         (a)   A description of the material, supplies, services, personal
property or construction in sufficient detail that prospective bidders should
know what their obligations will be. The description may be made either in the
advertisement itself, or by reference to detailed plans and specifications on
file with the purchasing agent at the time of the announcement;
         (b)   The date, time and place for the opening of the bid;
         (c)   Notification if a bidder’s good faith deposit or performance
bond is to be required; and
         (d)   Any other information upon which the bidder must rely in order
to be responsible bidder.
   (B)   Additional advertisements. The purchasing agent may place additional
advertisements in any other newspaper or trade journal when it is his or her
opinion it is in the public interest to do so.
   (C)   Rejection. The County Commission may reject any and all bids, or part
thereof, for any valid reason.
   (D)   Extensions. The purchasing agent may extend the time for opening of
bids when in his or her opinion it is in the public interest to do so. Notice
of the extension shall be given to all prospective bidders by the purchasing
agent in such manner as is most practical under the circumstances. The length
of such extension shall be determined by the purchasing agent. No extension may
be granted for the purpose of qualifying a bid that was delivered after the
time advertised for the original opening.
   (E)   Late bids. No bids shall be received or accepted at any time
subsequent to the time indicated in the announcement. Any bids delivered by
mail, or any other means, subsequent to the appointed time, shall not be
opened.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-5) (Ord. 179, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 36.06 BONDS OF BIDDERS MAY BE REQUIRED.
   The purchasing agent may require bidders to supply deposits of good faith,
or bonds with sufficient sureties, in such amounts as shall be deemed adequate
and approved by the County Commission, not only to ensure performance of the
contract or purchase order in the time and manner prescribed, but also to save,
indemnify and hold the county harmless against losses, damages, claims,
liabilities, judgments, costs and expenses which may accrue in consequence of
the grant of the contract or purchase order.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-6) (Ord. 179, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 36.07 PURCHASE ORDERS REQUIRED.
   A purchase order shall be used whenever goods and limited services are to be
acquired by outright purchase with payment to be made after the goods and
services have been delivered or performed and accepted, and where the delivery
of all items or the performance of all services is expected to occur at the
same time. Open purchase orders shall be used where goods or services will be
supplied or take place each month and the amount is either the same each month
or the items purchased are of such a nature that requesting departments are not
able to order in advance and wait for Commission approval. The purchase order
shall specify the nature of goods or services to be acquired, the purchase
price thereof, freight charges, prompt payment discounts, the delivery date,
the person or entity from whom the same is being acquired, the department,
division or agency for whom the acquisition is being made and such other
provisions as may be appropriate or required. The purchase order shall
incorporate by reference all the terms, conditions and specifications, if any,
contained in the request for bids.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-7) (Ord. 179, passed 6-17-2008)
§ 36.08 DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power to dispose of surplus, obsolete or unusable personal
property held by the county is vested in the elected official over a
department, or the county purchasing agent over a department. The official or
agent shall declare such property as may be surplus, obsolete or unusable, and
shall dispose of said property in any manner that is deemed to be in the best
interest of the public. Such disposition may be by sale, salvage, trade,
donation or disposal, as appropriate.
   (B)   Real property may be disposed of by public auction, by listing with a
licensed realtor, by negotiation, by trade, by sealed bid or otherwise, and as
disposition shall be approved by the County Commission. The County Commission
may refuse any or all offers or bids. Any sale of county-owned real property
will be in strict compliance with the state code.
(Prior Code, § 1-8A-8) (Ord. 179, passed 6-17-2008)
CHAPTER 37: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Hazardous Materials Emergencies Expenses
   
37.01   Definitions
   
37.02   Recovery of expenses
   
37.03   Cost recovery procedure
   
37.04   Action to recover costs
   
37.05   Expenses of other responding entities
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCIES EXPENSES
§ 37.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPENSES. All costs incurred for the response, containment and/or removal
and disposal of hazardous materials on initial remedial action. It includes,
but is not necessarily limited to, the actual labor costs of government and
other personnel, including workers’ compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead and any costs of equipment, equipment operation,
materials, disposal and any contract labor or materials.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY. A sudden and unexpected release of any
substance that, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, presents a direct and immediate threat to public
safety or the environment and requires immediate action to mitigate the threat.
(Prior Code, § 1-8D-1) (Ord. 03-05, passed 3-18-2003)
§ 37.02 RECOVERY OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   Authorized. Those persons or entities whose negligent or intentional
actions cause or create, in whole or in part, a hazardous materials emergency
within the boundaries of the county is liable to the county for all costs and
expenses incurred in or arising from response to such hazardous materials
emergency by the county and any other political subdivision, agency or
cooperative entity. The county shall recover all such costs and expenses,
including reasonable attorney fees, litigation expenses and court costs
incurred in, related to or arising out of, all cost recovery efforts and
enforcement of the terms of this subchapter.
   (B)   No admission of liability. The payment of expenses under this section
does not constitute an admission of liability or negligence in any legal action
for damages.
(Prior Code, § 1-8D-2) (Ord. 03-05, passed 3-18-2003)
§ 37.03 COST RECOVERY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Investigation; notice. The county shall investigate and determine the
person or entity responsible for causing or creating the hazardous materials
emergency and shall notify the responsible party in writing of said
determination of responsibility and the amount of costs and expenses incurred
by the county in responding to the hazardous materials emergency.
   (B)   Right of appeal. The notice required by division (A) above shall
specify that the party determined to be responsible for causing or creating the
hazardous materials emergency has the right to appeal the decision determining
responsibility to the governing body of the county and shall specify a deadline
for filing the notice of appeal and the person or office in which it must be
filed. The deadline for filing the notice of appeal shall not be less than 15
days from the date of the notice.
   (C)   Hearing on appeal.
      (1)   In the event a notice of appeal is filed, the hearing before the
governing body shall be an informal public hearing, and the parties shall not
be required to adhere to the state’s rules of civil procedure or evidence.
      (2)   The appealing party and county shall each be entitled to present
evidence and argument in support of their respective positions, in accordance
with procedures established at the hearing by the governing body.
   (D)   Decision final. The decision of the governing body shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 1-8D-3) (Ord. 03-05, passed 3-18-2003)
§ 37.04 ACTION TO RECOVER COSTS.
   In the event the responsible party fails or refuses to pay all of the costs
and expenses determined by the county related to or arising out of the county’s
response to the hazardous materials emergency within 30 days after assessment
or after the governing body’s decision on an appeal, the county may initiate a
legal action to recover such costs, including reasonable attorney fees and
costs.
(Prior Code, § 1-8D-4) (Ord. 03-05, passed 3-18-2003)
§ 37.05 EXPENSES OF OTHER RESPONDING ENTITIES.
   (A)   Recover by county. In the event that personnel and equipment from
other political subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities shall respond to
assist with the hazardous materials emergency, then the county shall recover
costs and expenses incurred by such other political subdivision, agencies or
cooperative entities as part of county’s cost recovery efforts.
   (B)   Reimbursement to agencies. Upon recovery of costs and expenses from
the responsible party, the county is authorized to reimburse such other
political subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities for their actual costs
incurred in responding to the hazardous materials emergency.
(Prior Code, § 1-8D-5) (Ord. 03-05, passed 3-18-2003)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Delivery of solid waste
§ 50.01 DELIVERY OF SOLID WASTE.
   Beginning on the date provided in the notice given by the Davis County Solid
Waste Management and Energy Recovery Special Service District directly to the
county for the commencement of delivery of processible waste to the landfill
owned or operated by the district, all persons (including private collectors of
solid waste operating within the jurisdiction of the county) shall deliver all
“processible waste,” as defined in the preamble of the ordinance codified
herein, generated within the unincorporated boundaries of the county to the
facility or landfill owned or operated by the Davis County Solid Waste
Management and Energy Recovery Special Service District; provided, however,
that in the event the solid waste resource recovery facility is operating at
capacity or is shut down, then any persons, including private collectors of
solid waste operating within the jurisdiction of the county, shall, upon
direction of the Davis County Solid Waste Management and Energy Recovery
Special Service District, deliver all processible waste to a landfill or
landfills owned or operated by the Davis County Solid Waste Management and
Energy Recovery Special Service District.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 104, passed 3-2-1987)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Traffic Code adopted by reference
   
70.02   Speed limits on public roads
Parking Regulations
   
70.15   “Vehicle” defined
   
70.16   Time-limited parking
   
70.17   Snow removal; interference
   
70.18   No parking zones
   
70.19   Prohibited parking
   
70.20   Blocking traveled roadway
   
70.21   Moving vehicle into prohibited area
   
70.22   Impoundment of violating vehicle; service fee
   
70.23   Prohibited hours
   
70.24   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
70.25   Parking violation; owner responsibility
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the state’s Traffic Code, UCA Title 41, Chapter 6a,
as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor or
class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the county. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1) (Ord. 154, passed 1-9-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 SPEED LIMITS ON PUBLIC ROADS.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. Consistent with the foregoing, every person
shall drive at a safe and appropriate speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection or railroad grade crossing, when approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway and when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic, or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
   (B)   Maximum speed limit. Where no special hazards exist, the speed limit
of 40 mph, unless otherwise posted, shall be the lawful speed limit on any
public road within the county, and any speed in excess of this 40 mph speed
limit shall be prima facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent
and that it is unlawful.
   (C)   Old Highway 30. No person shall drive a vehicle in excess of 30 mph on
the county public road known as Old Highway 30 within a two-mile zone extending
eastward from the Mountain Green exit of State Road 84.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2) (Ord. 88, passed 9-18-1984) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 70.15 “VEHICLE” DEFINED.
   For purposes of this subchapter, VEHICLE shall mean, but shall not be
limited to, every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices used upon rails or
tracks. The term shall further include any farm tractor or farm implements
which may be drawn or transported on a public road, any trailer of any type,
whether used for the occupancy of people, storage of personal property or for
the towing of people or personal property.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) (Ord. 144, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 70.16 TIME-LIMITED PARKING.
   It shall be a class C misdemeanor for any person to park or leave standing
on any public road, street or any county property any vehicle, to include any
farm tractor or farm implements which may be transported or drawn on a public
road, for 48 or more consecutive hours. Any vehicle so parked or left standing
may be impounded or removed by any law enforcement officer of the state. For
purposes of impoundment and removal, the law enforcement officer may, after
making a reasonable effort to locate the owner, remove and impound such vehicle
with the costs of removal and impoundment to be charged to the owner of the
affected vehicle, or to any person who claims such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) (Ord. 144, passed 2-15-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 SNOW REMOVAL; INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be a class C misdemeanor for any person owning or having control
over any vehicle to park that vehicle, or allow or suffer that vehicle to be
parked on the public roads of the county at any time when such parking shall
interfere with the proper conduct of the county to remove snow from county
roads and county property.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 NO PARKING ZONES.
   It shall be a class C misdemeanor for any person owning or having control
over any vehicle to park said vehicle in an area that has been duly designated
as a “no parking” zone.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) (Ord. 144, passed 2-15-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   It is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand or park such
vehicle in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace officer or
traffic control device:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within five feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (F)   On a crosswalk;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach of any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic control signal location at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite ends of a safety zone, unless the
county’s Road Department indicates a different length by signs or markings;
   (I)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and on
the side of a street immediately opposite the entrance to any fire station,
within 75 feet of such entrance when properly signposted;
   (J)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
standing, stopping or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (K)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of a
street or at the curb of a street;
   (L)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway; or
   (M)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing or
parking.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 BLOCKING TRAVELED ROADWAY.
   It is unlawful for any operator of any vehicle to stop, stand or park any
vehicle upon any street, highway or alley, in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the traveled portion of
the width of such roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, except
that an operator may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers, or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations, or signs or
signals or a peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 MOVING VEHICLE INTO PROHIBITED AREA.
   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control into
any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) (Ord. 184, passed 5-6-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 IMPOUNDMENT OF VIOLATING VEHICLE; SERVICE FEE.
   Any vehicle parked upon any public street in the county at a place, in any
manner, or for a length of time prohibited by this subchapter, if unoccupied,
may be removed and impounded by the Sheriff’s Department, and a service charge
in such amount as established by resolution of the County Commission shall be
paid to the county before such vehicle may be released from impound. The
payment of such service fee shall not release the owner, chauffeur, driver or
operator of such vehicle from any penalty imposed for violation of traffic laws
or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) (Ord. 184, passed 5-6-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 PROHIBITED HOURS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to park, or the
registered or purported owner of any vehicle, trailer, boat or other item to
allow or authorize the parking of, such vehicle, boat, trailer or other item on
any public street or roadway between the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 6:
00 a.m. between November 1 and March 31 of each year.
   (B)   During all times, other than those set forth in division (A) above, no
person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any vehicle, trailer,
boat or other item shall park, or allow or permit another to park, any such
vehicle, trailer, boat or other item upon any public street when the removal of
snow from the streets is apparent or imminent, or when necessary, as determined
by the county. Any such vehicle, trailer, boat or other item found parked in
violation of this section shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be removed
and towed away by or under the direction of the Sheriff’s Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) (Ord. 184A, passed 12-17-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle, boat, trailer or other item upon or within
100 feet of any street or highway for the principal purpose of displaying such
vehicle or item for sale. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the display
of vehicles or other items for sale in residential zones where the vehicle or
other item is displayed upon the owner’s premises or upon a street or roadway
abutting said premises, subject to §
70.23 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 PARKING VIOLATION; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in
whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such
violation and subject to the penalty therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
70.15 through
70.25 of this code shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall
be punished as provided for by law. In addition, any person engaging in the
unauthorized parking or use of streets within the county shall be liable for a
civil penalty of $50.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) (Ord. 184, passed 5-6-1998)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
92.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
93.   PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
   
90.01   Nuisances described; prohibited
   
90.02   Inspections; notice of violation
   
90.03   Failure to comply; abatement by county
   
90.04   Liability for costs of abatement by county
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 NUISANCES DESCRIBED; PROHIBITED.
   No property owner or occupant shall permit or cause to exist upon his or her
property any unsightly or deleterious objects, structures or disused or
abandoned motor vehicles, or injurious or noxious weeds, trash, refuse or
garbage.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 60, passed 7-3-1972) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 INSPECTIONS; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The County Commission, by and through its representatives, is hereby
authorized and empowered to make inspection of properties within the county to
determine whether there is any violation of this chapter, and shall serve
notice in writing upon the owner or occupant of the property of the existence
of unsightly or deleterious objects, structures or disused or abandoned motor
vehicles, or injurious or noxious weeds, trash, refuse or garbage, requiring
their removal, destruction or eradication within such reasonable period of time
as it may determine, but not less than ten days from the date of notice.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 60, passed 7-3-1972) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 FAILURE TO COMPLY; ABATEMENT BY COUNTY.
   Upon failure of the owner or occupant to remove, destroy or eradicate such
unsightly or deleterious objects, structures or disused or abandoned motor
vehicles, or noxious weeds, trash, refuse or garbage, after such notice, the
county shall proceed to abate such condition by removal, destruction or
eradication.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 60, passed 7-3-1972) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF ABATEMENT BY COUNTY.
   A statement of the costs incurred by the county in such removal, destruction
or eradication and as a demand for payment shall be submitted to the owner or
occupant in writing, and the owner shall be liable therefor. The costs incurred
shall be a lien upon the property of the owner or occupant, and any personal
property removed or taken into custody by the county pursuant to this chapter
may be sold or otherwise disposed of in satisfaction of such lien, the proceeds
being applied first to the cost of sale, second to the cost of removal,
destruction or eradication and other county expenses, and the balance, if any,
to the owner or occupant. Any unsatisfied costs incurred in the removal,
destruction or eradication of any unsightly or deleterious objects, structures,
or disused or abandoned motor vehicles, or any injurious or noxious weeds,
trash, refuse or garbage, may be referred to the County Treasurer for inclusion
in the tax notice of the property owner or occupant and shall be collected by
the County Treasurer as are other property taxes.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 60, passed 7-3-1972) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall permit or cause to exist any unsightly or deleterious
objects, structures, or disused or abandoned motor vehicles, or injurious or
noxious weeds, trash, refuse or garbage, as herein described, or any person who
shall fail to remove, destroy or eradicate the same after having been given
notice to abate the same as herein above provided, is guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 60, passed 7-3-1972)
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Boarding and Water Code
   
91.02   Diversion dams
   
91.03   Targeted residential picketing
Closed Areas Due to Dangerous Conditions
   
91.15   Authority to close
   
91.16   Trespassing prohibited
   
91.17   Signs posted
   
91.18   Destroying or removing signs prohibited
   
91.19   Exemptions
   
91.20   Enforcement
Spotlighting
   
91.35   Intent and purpose
   
91.36   Definitions
   
91.37   Circumstances where spotlighting permitted
   
91.38   Number of permits issued
   
91.39   Restrictions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 BOATING AND WATER CODE.
   (A)   Boating and Water Code adopted. The rules and regulations contained in
UCA Title 73, Chapters 18, 18a, 18b and 18c, as amended, and the rules
promulgated thereunder are hereby adopted as the boating and water rules and
regulations of the county. Any provisions of UCA Title 73, Chapters 18, 18a,
18b and 18c providing a penalty greater than a class B misdemeanor, or not
relating to criminal or administrative sanctions, are not incorporated as part
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
   (B)   Amendments. In order to ensure continuing uniformity between the
state’s boating and water rules and regulations and the county’s boating and
water rules and regulations, as required by UCA § 73-18-17, this section will
include any and all periodic amendments to the state’s rules and regulations,
UCA Title 73, Chapters 18, 18a, 18b and 18c, after the effective date hereof,
made by the state legislature or by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2)
(Ord. 06-10, passed 6-6-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 DIVERSION DAMS.
   (A)   Alleviating flood threat. In the event, as deemed necessary by the
County Commission, high water flows threaten land and/or persons, the County
Commission should notify the party who places the dam and then authorize steps
reasonably necessary to alleviate said threat, including, but not limited to,
the removal of the cause of said danger.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-1)
   (B)   Reimbursement for damages. The landowner responsible for the placement
of said diversion dams and/or obstacles shall be reimbursed by the county for
reasonable damages incurred in the alleviation of said threat.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-2)
(Ord. 181, passed 6-4-1997)
§ 91.03 TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING.
   (A)   Purpose. The protection of the home is of the highest importance. The
public health and welfare and the good order of the community require that
citizens enjoy in their homes and neighborhoods a feeling of well-being,
tranquility, privacy and enjoy freedom from being a captive audience to
unwanted speech in their homes. The practice of targeted picketing in
residential areas causes emotional disturbance and distress to residents and
has the potential to incite breaches of the peace. Full opportunity exists for
individuals to exercise their right of free speech without resorting to
targeted residential picketing. The provisions of this section are enacted for
the purpose of protecting the significant public interests stated above and not
to suppress free speech rights or any particular viewpoint.
(Prior Code, § 5-11-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PICKETING. The stationing or posting of one or more persons to apprise
the public, vocally or by standing or marching with signs, banners, sound
amplification devices or other means, of an opinion or a message.
      RESIDENCE. Any single-family, duplex or multi-family dwelling that is not
used as a targeted occupant’s sole place of business or as a place of public
meeting.
      TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING. Picketing that:
         (a)   Is specifically directed or focused towards a residence or one
or more occupants of a residence; or
         (b)   Takes place within 100 feet of the property line of that
residence.
(Prior Code, § 5-11-2)
   (C)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person, acting alone or in
concert with others, to engage in targeted residential picketing in the county.
(Prior Code, § 5-11-3)
(Ord. 09-06, passed 11-17-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
CLOSED AREAS DUE TO DANGEROUS CONDITIONS
§ 91.15 AUTHORITY TO CLOSE.
   The Sheriff, his or her deputies, officers of the United States Forest
Service, officers of the National Parks Service, or any of their designees, may
close any area in the county outside the limits of incorporated cities or towns
where a condition of danger exists to persons or property creating a
substantial risk of injury or harm and where such closure is necessary to
protect the safety, health and welfare of the general public. Such areas
include, but are not limited to, areas of high avalanche danger, high winds
during blizzards and the like.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-1) (Ord. 191, passed 10-19-1999)
§ 91.16 TRESPASSING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person for the purpose of skiing, snowmobiling
or other reason to willfully go upon any area in the county outside the limits
of incorporated cities or towns, designated by the Sheriff, his or her
deputies, officers of the United States Forest Service, officers of the
National Parks Service, or their designees, as closed.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-2) (Ord. 191, passed 10-19-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 SIGNS POSTED.
   The area designated as closed shall be posted by signs reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders, which signs shall, as a minimum, have
written or printed thereon in letters at least two inches high, the words
“closed area” or “danger” or words of similar description.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-3) (Ord. 191, passed 10-19-1999)
§ 91.18 DESTROYING OR REMOVING SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, tear down, mutilate, deface,
damage or destroy any sign which is erected pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-4) (Ord. 191, passed 10-19-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the following persons
in the performance of their duties: Members of any organized ski patrol; the
Sheriff or his or her deputies; officers of the United States Forest Service;
and officers of the National Parks Service, or any of their designees.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-5) (Ord. 191, passed 10-19-1999)
§ 91.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Sheriff is hereby empowered to deputize for such length of time as he or
she shall designate any suitable person to enforce the observance of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-6) (Ord. 191, passed 10-19-1999)
SPOTLIGHTING
§ 91.35 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of the County Commission to prohibit
spotlighting within the unincorporated areas of the county, consistent with and
pursuant to state law, specifically UCA § 23-13-17.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-1) (Ord. 185, passed 5-6-1998)
§ 91.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. A pistol, revolver, shotgun, sawed off shotgun, rifle or sawed-off
rifle or any device that could be used as a dangerous weapon from which is
expelled a projectile by any force.
   NIGHT. The period from one-half hour after sundown to one-half hour prior to
sunup.
   SPOTLIGHTING. Throwing or casting the rays of any spotlight, headlight or
other artificial light on any highway or in any field, woodland or forest while
having in possession a firearm by which protected wildlife may be killed.
SPOTLIGHTING includes use of a night scope while having in possession a firearm
by which protected wildlife may be killed during the night.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-2) (Ord. 185, passed 5-6-1998)
§ 91.37 CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE SPOTLIGHTING PERMITTED.
   Spotlighting during the night is only allowed in the unincorporated areas of
the county under the following conditions.
   (A)   Permit required. The person desiring to spotlight must obtain a
written permit to do the same from the county through its designated
representatives at the County Sheriff’s office. Said permit shall be effective
for a period of six months.
   (B)   Notification required. The person obtaining a permit must notify the
County Sheriff’s office by telephone or other means of his or her intent to
spotlight and the proposed location of the spotlighting at least one hour and
not more than 24 hours prior to engaging in spotlighting.
   (C)   Distance to structures. Spotlighting is not allowed within 600 feet of
a house, dwelling or any other building, or any other structure where a
domestic animal is kept or fed, including a barn, poultry yard, corral, feeding
pen or stockyard, except as provided under division (E) below.
   (D)   Private land; permission required. A person desiring to spotlight on
private land must have the written permit referred to in division (A) above and
also written permission of the landowner or his or her agent referring
specifically to the date and time spotlighting is to be allowed on said land.
The person spotlighting on private land must have said writing on his or her
person when spotlighting on said private land.
   (E)   Exceptions. This subchapter does not prohibit any person who is
lawfully acting to protect his or her crops or domestic animals from predation
by those animals from spotlighting, nor does it prohibit an animal damage
control agent acting in his or her official capacity under a memorandum of
agreement with the state’s Division of Wildlife. Nor does this subchapter apply
to agents specifically hired to protect crops or domestic animals from
predation. This subchapter does not prohibit a peace officer or conservation
officer acting in the line of duty from spotlighting.
   (F)   Persons under 15 years. A person 15 years of age or younger must be
accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, or other responsible person
21 years of age or older. ACCOMPANIED means at a distance within which visual
and verbal communication is maintained for the purpose of advising and
assisting.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-3) (Ord. 185, passed 5-6-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.38 NUMBER OF PERMITS ISSUED.
   The county reserves the right to limit the number of permits to be issued.
The Sheriff or his or her authorized representative may limit the number of
permits based on safety considerations involving numbers of persons in a
specific area and also based on the ability of law enforcement personnel to
appropriately monitor spotlighting activity in the county.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-4) (Ord. 185, passed 5-6-1998)
§ 91.39 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any artificial light used to spotlight must be carried by the hunter.
   (B)   A motor vehicle headlight or light in, on or attached to or powered by
a motor vehicle may not be used to spotlight any animal.
   (C)   While hunting or spotlighting with the use of an artificial light, the
hunter may not occupy or operate any “motor vehicle,” as defined under UCA §
41-6a-102.
   (D)   A person may not spotlight while under the influence of alcohol or
drugs to the degree that he or she could not safely operate a motor vehicle.
   (E)   Prior to being issued a permit, a person must inform the Sheriff’s
office of any wildlife- related convictions within five years, any convictions
involving the use of a firearm or other weapon or any felony convictions.
   (F)   No permit may be issued to a person who has been convicted of a felony
or any crime involving the use of a firearm or other weapon for a period of
five years following the last conviction. If it is found that a person did not
reveal all convictions as required, that person shall not be issued a permit,
or if the permit has been issued, it shall be revoked and that person shall not
be allowed a permit for five years.
   (G)   The County Sheriff’s office shall have three working days to process
an application for a permit under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-5) (Ord. 185, passed 5-6-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
91.03 of this code is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
§
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-11-4)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.20 of this code shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-7)
   (D)   Any violation of §§
91.35 through
91.39 of this code shall be designated and punishable as a class B misdemeanor,
as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Any person who has been convicted of a crime under §§
91.35 through
91.39 of this code shall relinquish any permits issued hereunder and shall not
be allowed any permits for a period of five years.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-6)
(Ord. 185, passed 5-6-1998; Ord. 191, passed 10-19-1999; Ord. 09-06, passed 11-
17-2009)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Applicability
   
92.002   Definitions
   
92.003   Wild animals
   
92.004   Kennels, pet grooming shops, pet shops and pet hospitals
   
92.005   Health regulations
   
92.006   Cruelty to animals
   
92.007   Wildlife Resources Code
Requirements for Keeping Animals
   
92.020   Control of animal
   
92.021   Interference with animal control officer
   
92.022   Vaccination requirements
   
92.023   Animal noise nuisance
   
92.024   Disposition of excrement
   
92.025   Damaging property
   
92.026   Complaint procedure
   
92.027   Abatement of nuisances
   
92.028   Animal attack or bite
   
92.029   Dangerous animal
   
92.030   Enforcement
   
92.031   Fighting dogs prohibited
   
92.032   Disposition of dangerous animals
   
92.033   Applicability to nonresidents
Dog Licensing
   
92.045   License required; exceptions
   
92.046   Application for license
   
92.047   Proof of rabies vaccination required
   
92.048   Fees; exemptions
   
92.049   Issuance; tag
   
92.050   Duplicate tags and certificates
   
92.051   Nontransferable
   
92.052   Records maintained
Impoundment
   
92.065   Shelter created
   
92.066   Additional housing
   
92.067   Impounding animals
   
92.068   Proper care
   
92.069   Notification to owner of impounded animal
   
92.070   Period of impounding
   
92.071   Release of impounded animals
   
92.072   Sale of impounded animals
   
92.073   Unclaimed, unadopted animals having bitten or injured persons or
animals
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 APPLICABILITY.
   All domesticated animals which are within the boundaries of the county shall
be subject to regulation pursuant to and in compliance with the laws, rules and
regulations of the state and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996)
§ 92.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any class of livestock, dogs and cats, and all species of nonhuman
creatures, both domestic and wild, male and female, singular and plural.
   ATTACK. Violent or aggressive physical contact with a person or animal, or
violent or aggressive behavior that confines the movement of a person,
including, but not limited to, chasing, cornering or encircling a person by an
animal trained for ATTACK.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, exercises control over,
maintains, shelters, transports or sells an animal.
   PERMIT. To allow or let happen and shall not include a state of mind
requirement.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Defined in §
92.020 of this code.
   VACCINATION or VACCINATION FOR RABIES. The inoculation of a dog with a
vaccine approved by the state for use in the prevention of rabies.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996; Ord. 194a, passed 1-4-2000)
§ 92.003 WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definition. The term WILD ANIMAL, for the purposes of this chapter,
shall mean and include any and all species of the following:
      (1)   Poisonous reptiles;
      (2)   Monitor lizards;
      (3)   Nonpoisonous snakes with an adult length greater than six feet;
      (4)   Crocodilians; and
      (5)   All species of nonhuman animals except:
         (a)   Domestic cat (Felis catus);
         (b)   Chinchilla (Chinchilla laniger);
         (c)   Domestic dog (Canis familiaris), except wolf, part wolf, fox,
part fox, coyote, part coyote, dingo and the like;
         (d)   Domestic ferret (Mustela putorius furo);
         (e)   Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus);
         (f)   Guinea pig (Cavia porcellus);
         (g)   Hamster (Mesocricetus auratus);
         (h)   Domestic laboratory mouse (Mus domesticus);
         (i)   Domestic rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus);
         (j)   Domestic laboratory rat (Rattus albino strain);
         (k)   Domestic species of livestock; and
         (l)   Mink (Mustela vison).
   (B)   Prohibitions; exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any person to own,
possess, keep, maintain, shelter, transport or sell within the county, any
living wild animal; provided, however, that the following organizations or
entities shall be exempt from this section to the extent specifically
authorized by the county:
      (1)   The county animal control officer (MACO) may temporarily shelter
and transport any wild animal for the purposes of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter;
      (2)   Any circus, rodeo or livestock show licensed or sanctioned by the
county. Information about and an application to bring wild animals within the
county limits can be obtained from the county;
      (3)   Licensed public transport (e.g., railroads, trucking firms) using
public thoroughfares; and
      (4)   Licensed wildlife agents.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.004 KENNELS, PET GROOMING SHOPS, PET SHOPS AND PET HOSPITALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL SHELTER. Any business which collects stray, abandoned or owner-
surrendered pet animals for redemption, adoption, sale or disposal.
      BUSINESS. Any profit or nonprofit individual, partnership, company or
corporation doing business within the county limits.
      KENNEL. Any business which is involved with the boarding of pet animals.
      PET ANIMAL. Shall include, but not be limited to, fish, small mammals,
birds, reptiles, cats and dogs.
      PET GROOMING SHOP. Any business which is involved in the grooming of pet
animals for profit.
      PET HOSPITAL. Any business operating as a veterinary hospital or clinic
which is involved in the diagnosis, treatment or care of any pet animal.
      PET SHOP. Any retail or wholesale business which is involved in the
selling or trading of pet animals.
   (B)   Standards, rules and regulations.
      (1)   The county, for the purpose of protecting the health and welfare of
the public and of the animals under its charge, shall adopt, and from time to
time amend, standards, rules and regulations for the implementation of the
licensing and operation of animal shelters, kennels, pet grooming shops, pet
hospitals and pet shops.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any operator or licensee thereof to
violate or fail to comply with any standard, rule or regulation adopted
pursuant to division (B)(1) above, or to violate or fail to comply with any
requirements of this section.
   (C)   Licensing of pet animal businesses.
      (1)   License required. Every person owning, possessing or keeping or
desiring to keep and maintain, within the county a dog kennel, pet grooming
shop, pet shop or pet hospital shall apply for and obtain from the county a
license therefor before such may be kept or maintained.
      (2)   Application for license. Every person desiring to obtain a license
as provided in this section shall make application therefor and shall obtain
the approval of the appropriate planning and zoning administration. In
addition, each applicant shall accompany such application with the written
consent of a majority of persons of full age residing within 800 feet in all
directions from the place where such dog kennel, pet grooming shop, pet shop or
pet hospital is proposed to be located.
      (3)   Municipal animal shelter exempt. A municipal shelter shall be
exempt from the requirements of divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above.
Notwithstanding such exemption, the shelter must be in compliance with all
requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-6) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.005 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Quarantine. Whenever the owner or possessor of an animal has been
notified by any person, or has cause to believe that the owner’s or possessor’s
animal has bitten or in any other way injured a person so as to cause an
abrasion or the skin, the owner or possessor shall immediately notify the MACO
of the incident, who shall immediately remove the suspected animal from the
owner’s or possessor’s property for a ten-day period for observation by the
MACO. If proof of rabies vaccination cannot be provided, the animal shall be
quarantined for a 60-day period at the expense of the animal owner or
possessor. It shall be unlawful for the owner or possessor to fail to give the
required notification, to conceal, hide or remove the suspected animal, or in
any other way prevent or hinder investigation and observation of the animal by
the MACO.
   (B)   Dead or diseased animals.
      (1)   Report to MACO. Every person having possession, under control, or
upon any premises occupied or controlled by such person, any dead or diseased
animal, not proper for food, and liable to become noxious or detrimental to the
public health, shall, at once, report the same to the MACO.
      (2)   Removal and disposition by owners.
         (a)   Any person who shall kill or order killed any animal shall, at
the time, arrange for its removal from the place of killing to the proper place
of interment or rendering, and shall be responsible for removal and burial or
rendering in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or other applicable
laws.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any animal found dead
within six hours after the death of the animal to arrange for its removal and
burial or rendering in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or other
applicable laws.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-7) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.006 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to needlessly beat, inflict
violence upon or kill, or to overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded,
overwork, torture or mutilate, or to otherwise treat in a cruel, dangerous or
inhumane manner, any animal, or to cause any of such acts to be done.
      (2)   It shall specifically be cruel, dangerous or inhumane for any
person to:
         (a)   In a public place, transport or keep an animal in or on any
motor vehicle or trailer, unless the animal is safely restrained.
            1.   As used in this section, RESTRAINED is defined as enclosed
within a vehicle or trailer with no openings large enough to permit the animal
to exit the vehicle or trailer on its own, or placed within a secured
container, cage or other enclosure sufficient to prevent the animal from
falling from, being thrown from or jumping from the vehicle.
            2.   As used in this section, PUBLIC PLACE is defined as any place
open to and generally used by the public, whether publicly or privately owned,
including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, parking lots, schools
and commercial establishments.
         (b)   Leave an animal in an unattended vehicle either without adequate
ventilation or in any manner which subjects the animal to extreme temperatures
that are dangerous or detrimental to the animal’s health or welfare; or
         (c)   Tether and leave, or permit to be left, unattended any animal on
a leash, cord or chain of less than six feet in length for longer than one
hour.
   (B)   Neglect of animals prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
having care, custody or control of any animal to fail to provide such animal
with food sufficient for the species, water and adequate shelter from the
weather, or to cause any of such acts to be done.
   (C)   Immediate impoundment.
      (1)   The MACO is authorized to immediately impound any animal which:
         (a)   Appears to have been cruelly treated as described in division
(A)(1) above;
         (b)   Appears to be deprived of sufficient food, water or shelter as
specified in division (B) above; or
         (c)   Is left in an unattended vehicle and is deprived of adequate
ventilation or is subject to extreme temperatures as specified in division (A)
(2)(b) above.
      (2)   The MACO shall leave at the place where the animal was impounded a
conspicuous notice indicating that the animal has been impounded by the MACO,
the reasons why the animal was impounded, the time and date of impoundment, as
well as the phone number to reach the MACO.
   (D)   Supply of food to enclosed animals by any person permitted. In case
any animal shall be at any time enclosed and shall continue to be without
necessary food or water more than 12 consecutive hours, it shall be lawful for
any person, from time to time, and as often as it shall be necessary, to enter
into or upon any enclosure in which any such animal shall be confined, and
supply such animal with necessary food and water so long as the same shall
remain so confined. Such person shall not be liable to any action for such
entry and the reasonable cost of such food or water may be collected by such
person from the owner of such animal.
   (E)   Abandonment.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any animal or to
cause an animal to be abandoned. ABANDONMENT is defined as the leaving
unattended of any animal, by a person previously having care, custody or
control of the animal, for at least 72 consecutive hours.
      (2)   The MACO is authorized to impound any animal which appears to be
abandoned. Impoundment may occur only after the MACO has posted a conspicuous
notice at the place where the animal appears to be abandoned, indicating that
the animal appears to be abandoned and that it may be impounded. Such notice
must be posted approximately every 24 hours. When 72 hours have passed, at
least two notices have been posted and the animal has remained abandoned, the
MACO is then authorized to impound the animal.
      (3)   The MACO shall leave at the place where the animal was abandoned a
conspicuous notice which conforms with the notice requirements of division (C)
(2) above.
   (F)   Keeping place for fighting animals. It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep or cause to be kept any place where any fowl or any animals are
suffered to fight upon exhibition, or for sport upon any wager.
   (G)   Poisoning. It shall be unlawful for any person to poison any domestic
animal in any manner whatsoever with the intent or for the purpose of poisoning
such animal. This prohibition shall not apply to the destruction of those
animals identified by the MACO as requiring eradication for the protection of
the public. Such eradication may include poisoning only when deemed necessary
by the MACO.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-8) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.007 WILDLIFE RESOURCES CODE.
   (A)   Adopted. The rules and regulations contained in UCA Title 23, as
amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, are hereby adopted as the
wildlife resources rules and regulations of the county. Any provisions of UCA
Title 23 providing a penalty greater than a class B misdemeanor, or not
relating to criminal or administrative sanctions, are not incorporated as part
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1)
   (B)   Amendments. In order to assure continuing uniformity between the
state’s wildlife resources rules and regulations and the county’s wildlife
resources rules and regulations, this section will include any and all periodic
amendments to the state’s rules and regulations, UCA Title 23, after the
effective date hereof, made by the state legislature or by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2)
(Ord. 06-11, passed 6-6-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
REQUIREMENTS FOR KEEPING ANIMALS
§ 92.020 CONTROL OF ANIMAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, possessor or person who keeps any
animal to permit the same to run at large.
   (B)   An animal shall be deemed to be running “at large” when it is off the
owner’s property and not under immediate control by means of a durable
restraint device, capable of keeping the animal restrained or strictly
controlled by a herder; or animal on the property of the owner and not securely
confined by a leash, building, fenced area or appropriate transport device or
strictly controlled by a herder.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.021 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest or
hinder the MACO in the discharge of his or her duty.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey a lawful order of
the MACO if such failure interferes with or hinders such code investigator in
the discharge of his or her official duties. For the purpose of this section,
the term “lawful order” shall be strictly construed and shall include only such
orders that relate directly to matters of substantial importance in the
discharge of official duties of animal shelter investigators. It is an
affirmative defense to this section that failure to obey the lawful order did
not interfere with or hinder the MACO.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.022 VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Failure to vaccinate. It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of
any domestic dog over the age of six months to possess, keep or maintain within
the county, any dog that is not currently vaccinated for rabies in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Vaccination required annually. It shall be the duty of every person
who owns or shelters any dog in the county to have such dog annually vaccinated
as required by division (A) above and state law for rabies by or under the
direction of a veterinarian licensed by the state. Such vaccination shall be
performed on or before the expiration date of the required initial vaccination.
Any person within the county who acquires a dog allowed in §
92.003(A) of this code has a duty to have it vaccinated within 30 days of such
acquisition, unless the dog has not yet reached an age at which it is safe to
vaccinate the animal; provided, however, that in any case the dog must be
vaccinated before reaching the age of six months.
   (C)   Vaccination certificates and tags.
      (1)   Vaccination certificates and corresponding vaccination tags shall
be acquired and retained by any owner, possessor or keeper of a dog within the
limits of the county. Certificates should provide spaces for the following
information:
         (a)   The name, address and phone number of the owner or keeper of the
inoculated dog;
         (b)   The date of inoculation;
         (c)   The year and series number of the tag; and
         (d)   The breed, age, color and sex of the inoculated dog.
      (2)   (a)   The tag should be made of durable material suitable to be
attached to the collar or harness of the inoculated dog. Such tag shall state
the year for which issued and the series number of the certificate and tag and
shall be worn by the dog at all times.
         (b)   A copy of the certificate shall be retained by the owner or
keeper of the inoculated dog for inspection.
   (D)   Unlawful possession of tags and certificates.
      (1)   Only those persons who own or shelter a dog duly vaccinated in
accordance with the provision of this section shall be permitted to possess the
certificates and tags provided for herein.
      (2)   No person may affix a tag evidencing vaccination as provided herein
to the collar or harness of any dog except the tag issued for that dog at the
time of vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.023 ANIMAL NOISE NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, possessor or keeper of any animal,
as defined in §
92.002 of this code, to permit such animal, by loud and persistent habitual
noise, to disturb any people or neighborhood.
   (B)   In any prosecution for a violation of division (A) above, the fact
that any loud animal which disturbed any people or neighborhood occurred
either: Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:30 a.m.; or when none of the
residents who reside at the place where the noisy animal is being kept are at
home, shall create a rebuttable presumption that the noisy animal was unlawful.
   (C)   Any animal which has been allowed or permitted to persistently and
chronically violate this section, as demonstrated by the issuance of two or
more citations and the receipt of multiple complaints from more than one
household, is declared to be a public nuisance and may be impounded upon
compliance with the procedures outlined in divisions (D) and (E) below.
   (D)   Whenever any chronic animal nuisance, as defined in division (C)
above, is found on any premises within the jurisdiction of the county, a
written notice shall be given to the owner, possessor or keeper of the animal,
or to the owner, occupant, person in possession, person in charge or person in
control of the premises where the animal is located, or a written notice shall
be posted at such premises when none of the above people can be found at the
premises. Such notice shall be signed by the MACO or an authorized
representative and shall give the person or persons to whom it is directed no
less than 72 hours, nor more than 120 hours, to remove and abate the nuisance.
   (E)   If, after the time given to comply with the notice has passed the
nuisance has not been abated, the MACO may summarily abate the nuisance by
impoundment and assess the costs of such abatement against the property or
owner thereof, to be collected by suit or otherwise, in addition to penalties
for violation hereof.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with a notice to abate a
nuisance issued as provided in division (D) above.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.024 DISPOSITION OF EXCREMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who possesses, shelters or is in charge
of any dog not to immediately remove excrement deposited by the dog upon a
common thoroughfare, street, sidewalk, play area, park or upon any private
property when permission of the owner or tenant of the property has not been
obtained, and such is hereby deemed to be a public nuisance and prohibited. Any
dog excrement shall not be placed in storm sewers or upon any public
thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.025 DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, possessor or person who keeps any
animal, as defined in §
92.002 of this code, to permit such animal, whether or not running at large, to
destroy, damage or injure any real or personal property including, but not
limited to, shrubbery, plants, flowers, grass, lawn, fence or anything
whatsoever upon any public premises or upon any private premises owned or
occupied by a person other than the owner, possessor or keeper of such animal,
and the same is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.026 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   Any law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to issue a summons and
information to any person when said officer personally observes a violation of
the provisions of §§
92.023, 92.024 and 92.025 of this code, or when information is received from
any person who has personal knowledge that an act or acts which are made
unlawful by the provisions of §§
92.023, 92.024 and 92.025 of this code have occurred.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 92.027 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   Any court of competent jurisdiction may order the owner, possessor or keeper
of any animal to abate the nuisance created under §§
92.023,
92.024 and
92.025 of this code within five days thereafter. Failure to abate the nuisance
after the expiration of the five-day period shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.028 ANIMAL ATTACK OR BITE.
   (A)   No person who owns, possesses, keeps or exercises control over any
animal shall do the following:
      (1)   Permit the animal to attack or bite any person or other domestic
animal not on the premises of such owner, possessor or keeper;
      (2)   Permit the animal to attack or bite any person or other domestic
animal upon the premises of the residence of such owner, possessor or keeper,
or upon the premises of any building establishment not then open to the public.
It is an affirmative defense to this section if such premises is previously
posted at each entrance with a prominent and conspicuous sign warning all
persons, in lettering not less than two inches in height, of the animal and if
the animal is confined, as that term is defined in §
92.029 of this code. It is also an affirmative defense to this section that the
attack or bite by the animal was necessary to prevent or apprehend a person
engaged in committing an act of violence, robbery or theft upon the property;
or
      (3)   Permit the animal to attack or bite any person or other domestic
animal upon the premises of any business establishment that is open to the
public. It is an affirmative defense to this section that the attack or bite by
a dog was necessary to prevent or apprehend a person engaged in committing an
act of violence, robbery or theft upon the property.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any law enforcement
officer who uses a dog while engaged in law enforcement activities, nor to any
owner, possessor or keeper of any dog which attacks or bites a person engaged
in physically attacking or striking such owner, possessor or keeper.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.029 DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, DANGEROUS ANIMAL shall mean one of the
following:
      (1)   Any dog with a known propensity or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury to or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans or
other domestic animals; or
      (2)   Any “animal,” as defined in §
92.002 of this code, that attacks or bites any person or domestic animal.
   (B)   An animal is “confined,” as the term is used in this section, if such
animal is securely confined in such a way that escape is prohibited.
   (C)   No person who owns, possesses, keeps or exercises any control over a
dangerous animal shall permit such animal to be on the premises of such person
without being confined.
   (D)   No person who owns, possesses, keeps or exercises any control over a
dangerous animal shall permit such animal to go beyond the premises of such
person unless the dangerous animal is controlled by means of a durable
restraint.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the owner, possessor or keeper of an
animal from the obligation to comply with any section of the county ordinance
concerning zoning requirements for fences.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.030 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any police officer, special police officer or the MACO is authorized
to issue a summons and information to any person when the officer personally
observes a violation of the provisions of §§
92.028 and
92.029 of this code, or when information is received from any person who has
personal knowledge that an act which is made unlawful by §§
92.028 and
92.029 of this code has occurred.
   (B)   Any court of competent jurisdiction is empowered to hold ex parte
hearings to determine whether reasonable grounds exist to believe that an
animal may constitute a danger to any person or persons if not impounded or
destroyed. After the hearing, if the court finds that reasonable grounds exist,
the court is empowered to enter orders to have the animal destroyed or to seize
and impound, or continue the impoundment of, the animal until the completion of
all legal proceedings held to determine whether a violation of §§
92.028 and
92.029 of this code has occurred. If an animal is ordered to be impounded or
destroyed pursuant to this section, the person who owns, possesses or keeps the
animal shall be entitled to a hearing within 14 days of the order to review the
propriety of the order.
   (C)   Any court of competent jurisdiction may order the person who owns,
possesses, keeps or exercises control over an animal to confine the animal
immediately and continuously so as to prevent the animal from attacking or
biting any person or other domestic animal, or may order such other dispositive
action, including destruction of the animal, as deemed necessary by the court.
Failure to comply with any such order shall be deemed a violation of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.031 FIGHTING DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, keep, exercise control
over, maintain, shelter, transport or sell within the county any fighting dog.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.032 DISPOSITION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   The MACO is authorized to immediately impound any dangerous animal
found in the county which does not fall within the exceptions listed in this
title, and the MACO may house or dispose of such dangerous animal in such
manner as may be deemed appropriate, except as the procedures in division (B)
below otherwise require.
   (B)   When the MACO has impounded any dangerous animal pursuant to this
section and the owner of such animal disputes the classification, the owner of
such animal may file a written petition with the MACO for a hearing concerning
such classification no later than seven days after impoundment. Such petition
shall include the name and address, including mailing address of the
petitioner. The MACO will then issue a notice of hearing date by mailing a copy
to the petitioner’s address no later than ten days prior to the date of the
hearing. Where no written request from the owner for a hearing is received by
the MACO within seven days of impoundment, the dangerous animal shall be
destroyed.
   (C)   The hearing, if any, will be held before the MACO and a hearing
officer designated by the MACO. Any facts which the petitioner wishes to be
considered shall be submitted under oath or affirmation, either in writing or
orally at the hearing. The petitioner shall bear the risk of non-persuasion.
The MACO or hearing officer shall make a final determination whether the animal
is “dangerous,” as defined in this subchapter.
   (D)   If the animal is found to be dangerous, it shall be destroyed, unless
the owner produces evidence deemed sufficient by the MACO that the animal is to
be permanently taken out of the county and the owner pays the cost of
impoundment. If the animal is found not to be dangerous, the animal shall be
released to the owner. The procedures in division (B) above shall not apply and
the owner is not entitled to such a hearing with respect to any animal
impounded as the immediate result of an attack or bite, as defined in §
92.028 of this code. In those instances, the animal shall be handled and the
procedures governed by the provisions of §§
92.065 through
92.073 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 92.033 APPLICABILITY TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to animals owned, possessed or
kept by county residents and nonresidents remaining temporarily in or passing
through the county, and to animals brought into the county for exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 11-13, passed 10-18-2011)
DOG LICENSING
§ 92.045 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, possessor or keeper of any
domestic dog (Canis familiaris) over the age of six months to keep, maintain,
house or have in possession within the county a dog without first having
obtained a license for such dog. Such license shall be valid for 12 months from
the date of issue. Dogs over the age of six months purchased, obtained or
otherwise acquired shall be licensed within 30 days after such acquisition; and
dogs under six months of age shall be licensed within 30 days after reaching
six months of age.
   (B)   Individual licenses shall not be required for dogs being held for
redemption or sale by the MACO, by a tax-exempt humane shelter or by a licensed
pet shop. In addition, the following categories of animals shall be exempt from
the licensing fee:
      (1)   Guide dogs for the blind and deaf;
      (2)   Service dogs used by the handicapped;
      (3)   Police service dogs; and
      (4)   Rescue dogs.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.046 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for licenses under this subchapter shall be made on forms
provided by the county.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5)
§ 92.047 PROOF OF RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   Licenses shall not be issued for any dog unless satisfactory proof of rabies
vaccination is provided to the county at time of issue.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996)
§ 92.048 FEES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The annual license fee for dogs shall be in such amount as established
by resolution of the County Commission.
   (B)   A certificate of surgery signed by a veterinarian certifying the
neutering of the dog will be required to qualify the dog for the lower license
fee.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996)
§ 92.049 ISSUANCE; TAG.
   Upon filing of the application, either in person or by mail, payment of the
necessary fees and providing proof of rabies vaccination, a license for the
current year shall be issued to the applicant. The license tag shall be
attached to the dog by means of a collar or harness, and it shall be unlawful
to place this tag on any dog other than the dog for which the license was
purchased.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.050 DUPLICATE TAGS AND CERTIFICATES.
   If the license tag issued is lost or destroyed, a duplicate tag and/or
certificate may be issued for a fee in such amount as established by resolution
of the County Commission. Duplicate tags for animals exempted from licensing
fees in §
92.045 of this code shall be issued without the payment of a duplicate tag fee.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996)
§ 92.051 NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Licenses and tags or other symbols of license identification are not
transferable.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5)
§ 92.052 RECORDS MAINTAINED.
   All records of issuance of licenses shall be kept in the county.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 92.065 SHELTER CREATED.
   There is an animal shelter which shall be operated by and under the control
of the MACO.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9)
§ 92.066 ADDITIONAL HOUSING.
   All animals impounded shall be sheltered and/or transported through the
animal shelter; provided, however, that when shelter facilities are inadequate,
the MACO is authorized to make provisions for additional housing and care
elsewhere.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9)
§ 92.067 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   (A)   The MACO is authorized to impound any animal which is stray, loose or
running at large, or which has bitten or otherwise injured any person and needs
to be confined for observation. The MACO may additionally impound any dog which
does not bear the proper license tag as required by §§
92.045 through
92.052 of this code.
   (B)   Any person may retain or trap in a humane manner and hold for the MACO
any animal trespassing upon his or her property.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9)
§ 92.068 PROPER CARE.
   All animals impounded shall be properly housed, fed, watered and cared for,
and it shall be the duty of the MACO to make provisions for all necessary
facilities, food, water, vehicles and other equipment required to carry out the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9)
§ 92.069 NOTIFICATION TO OWNER OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   Upon the impounding of any animal, it shall be the duty of the MACO to
notify the owner from whom the animal was taken, if the owner is known. If the
owner is not known, there shall be posted at the city and county building, for
a period of not less than three days, a notice containing a description of the
animal impounded.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9)
§ 92.070 PERIOD OF IMPOUNDING.
   All animals impounded shall be kept for a period of five days, unless sooner
redeemed by their respective owners and/or if action is being taken through
legal channels, that period may be extended to no longer than 30 days with the
same service fees assessed as noted in §
92.071 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996)
§ 92.071 RELEASE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is the duty of the MACO to release any impounded animal from the
animal shelter upon receipt of satisfactory proof that the person claiming the
animal is the owner thereof, or a responsible adult of age 18 or older acting
for and in behalf of the owner, upon reasonable determination that the animal
is not infected with rabies, and upon payment of appropriate pound service fees
as set forth in schedule I, attached to Ordinance 00-06 and on file in the
county office.
   (B)   In the event the impounded animal is a dog, the owner must present
satisfactory proof of vaccination for rabies and proper registration of such
dog in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. If proof of vaccination
registration cannot be provided, the MACO shall release the impounded dog to
the owner and require such owner to provide satisfactory proof within 48 hours
after its release which shows that such dog has been provided the required
rabies vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9) (Ord. 00-06, passed 7-5-2000)
§ 92.072 SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   After notice required by §
92.069 of this code has been given, and after five days of impounding required
by §
92.070 of this code has expired, then such animal may be released to any person
upon payment of the required fees as determined by the MACO and upon agreement
that vaccination registration of the animal shall, where required, be provided
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9)
§ 92.073 UNCLAIMED, UNADOPTED ANIMALS HAVING BITTEN OR INJURED PERSONS OR
ANIMALS.
   Any animal which is known to have bitten or injured any person so as to
cause an abrasion of the skin, or any animal which, in the opinion of the MACO,
appears to be infected with or exposed to rabies, shall be impounded, or in
such instances as may be determined by the MACO shall be closely “confined,” as
that term is defined in §
92.029 of this code, by its owner or possessor for observation in accordance
with the directions of the MACO. Disposition of such animal shall be made as
directed by the MACO.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and the punishment for such violation shall be as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-10) (Ord. 155, passed 1-9-1996)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
Section
Large Assemblies
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   License required; fee
   
93.04   Exceptions
   
93.05   Application for license
   
93.06   Conditions for issuance of license
   
93.07   Time limit for issuance
   
93.08   Revocation of license
   
93.09   Enforcement; abatement
Special Events and Organized Road Event Permit Program
   
93.20   Created
   
93.21   Definitions
   
93.22   Permit required
   
93.23   Exemption from permit
   
93.24   Notice required
   
93.25   Review
   
93.26   County participation
 
   
93.99   Penalty
LARGE ASSEMBLIES
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the county to regulate the assemblage of large numbers
of people, in excess of those normally needing the health, sanitary, fire,
police, transportation and utility services regularly provided in the county,
in order that the health, safety and welfare of all persons in the county,
residents and visitors alike, may be protected.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1) (Ord. 55, passed 5-18-1971)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSEMBLY. A company of persons gathered together at any location at any
single time for any purpose.
   PERSON. Any individual natural human being, partnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society or group.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 55, passed 5-18-1971)
§ 93.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct,
advertise, act as entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage or sell or give
tickets to an actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of 1,000 or more people
which continues or can reasonably be expected to continue for 18 or more
consecutive hours, whether on public or private property, unless a license to
hold the assembly has first been issued by the County Commission, application
for which must be made at least 30 days in advance of the assembly. A license
to hold an assembly issued to one person shall permit any person to engage in
any lawful activity in connection with the holding of the licensed assembly.
   (B)   Separate license; fee. A separate license shall be required for each
location in which 1,000 or more people assemble or can reasonably be
anticipated to assemble. The fee for each license shall be as established by
resolution of the County Commission.
   (C)   Maximum persons stated on license. A license shall permit the assembly
of only the maximum number of people stated in the license. The licensee shall
not sell tickets to, nor permit to assemble at the licensed location, more than
the maximum permissible number of people.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 55, passed 5-18-1971) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to any regularly established,
permanent place of worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium,
coliseum or other similar permanently established place of assembly for
assemblies which do not exceed by more than 250 people the maximum seating
capacity of the structure where the assembly is held.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to government sponsored fairs held on
regularly established fairgrounds, nor to assemblies required to be licensed by
other ordinances and regulations of the county.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4) (Ord. 55, passed 5-18-1971)
§ 93.05 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Time for filing application. Application for a license to hold an
actual or anticipated assembly of 1,000 or more persons shall be made in
writing to the County Commission at least 30 days in advance of such assembly.
   (B)   Oath or affirmation. The application shall contain a statement made
upon oath or affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and
correct to the best knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and sworn
to, or affirmed by, the individual making application in the case of a
corporation, by all partners in the case of a partnership or by all officers of
an unincorporated association, society or group or, if there be no officers, by
all members of such association, society or group.
   (C)   Content of application. The application shall contain and disclose:
      (1)   The name, age, residence and mailing address of all persons
required to sign the application by division (B) above and, in the case of a
corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation, together with
the name, age, residence and mailing address of each person holding 10% or more
of the stock of said corporation;
      (2)   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing address
of the record owners of all such property;
      (3)   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held or a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owners of all
property that the applicant has permission to use such property for an assembly
of 1,000 or more persons;
      (4)   The nature or purpose of the assembly;
      (5)   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly is
to last;
      (6)   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly, in consideration of the nature of the
assembly, or the maximum number of persons allowed to sleep within the
boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning ordinances of the
county, if the assembly is to continue overnight;
      (7)   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any;
      (8)   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of people
permitted to assemble;
      (9)   The plans for fencing the location of the assembly and the gates
contained in such fences;
      (10)   The plans for supplying potable water, including the source amount
available and location of outlets;
      (11)   The plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities, including
the source, number and location, type and the means of disposing of waste
deposited;
      (12)   The plans for holding, collection and disposing of solid waste
material;
      (13)   The plans to provide for medical facilities, including the
location and construction of a medical structure, the names and addresses and
hours of availability of physicians and nurses and provisions for emergency
ambulance service;
      (14)   The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly,
including the source and amount of power and the location of lamps;
      (15)   The plans for parking vehicles, including size and location of
lots, points of highway access and interior roads, including routes between
highway access and parking lots;
      (16)   The plans for telephone service, including the source, number and
location of telephones;
      (17)   The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location;
      (18)   The plans for security, including the number of guards, their
names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability;
      (19)   The plans for fire protection, including the number, type and
location of all protective devices, including alarms and extinguishers and the
number of emergency fire personnel available to operate the equipment; and
      (20)   The plans for food concessions and concessionaires who will be
allowed to operate on the grounds, including the names and addresses of all
concessionaires and their license or permit numbers.
   (D)   Bond, fee included with application. The application shall include the
bond required in §
93.06(B)(12) of this code and the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-5) (Ord. 55, passed 5-18-1971)
§ 93.06 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Maximum number determined. Before an applicant may be issued a
license, the applicant shall first determine the maximum number of people which
will be assembled or admitted to the location of the assembly; provided, that
the maximum number shall not exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly in consideration of the nature of the
assembly; and provided, that where the assembly is to continue overnight, the
maximum number shall not be more than is allowed to sleep within the boundaries
of the location of the assembly by the zoning or health ordinances of the
county.
   (B)   Specific requirements. Before the applicant may be issued a license,
the applicant shall provide proof that he or she will furnish at his or her own
expense before the assembly commences:
      (1)   A fence completely enclosing the proposed location, of sufficient
height and strength to prevent people in excess of the maximum permissible
number from gaining access to the assembly grounds, which shall have at least
four gates, at least one at or near four opposite points of the compass;
      (2)   Potable water, meeting all federal and state requirements for
purity, sufficient to provide drinking water for the maximum number of people
to be assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per person per day, and
water for bathing at the rate of at least ten gallons per person per day;
      (3)   Separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all state
and local specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds,
sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one toilet for every 200 females and at least
one toilet for every 300 males, together with an efficient, sanitary means of
disposing of waste matter deposited, which is in compliance with all state and
local laws and regulations. A lavatory with running water under pressure and a
continuous supply of soap and paper towels shall be provided with each toilet;
      (4)   A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste, in compliance with
state and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid waste
production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at
least 25 pounds of solid waste per person per day, together with a plan for
holding and a plan for collecting all such waste at least once each day of the
assembly and sufficient trash cans with tight fitting lids and personnel to
perform the task;
      (5)   Physicians and nurses licensed to practice in the state sufficient
to provide the average medical care enjoyed by residents of the state for the
maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one physician
for every 1,000 people, and at least one nurse for every 1,500 people, together
with an enclosed covered structure where treatment may be rendered, containing
separately enclosed treatment rooms for each physician, and at least one
emergency ambulance available for use at all times;
      (6)   If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness,
illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly at the rate of
at least five foot-candles, but not to shine unreasonably beyond the boundaries
of the enclosed location of the assembly;
      (7)   A free parking area inside of the assembly grounds sufficient to
provide parking space for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the
rate of at least one parking space for every four persons;
      (8)   Telephones connected to outside lines sufficient to provide service
for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one
separate line and receiver for each 1,000 persons;
      (9)   If the assembly is to continue overnight, camping facilities in
compliance with all federal, state and local requirements sufficient to provide
camping accommodations for the maximum number of people to be assembled;
      (10)   Security guards, either regularly employed, duly sworn off duty
peace officers of the state, or private guards, licensed in the county,
sufficient to provide adequate security for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one security guard for every 750 people;
      (11)   Fire protection, including alarms, extinguisher devices and fire
lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all federal, state and local standards
for the location of the assembly and sufficient emergency personnel to
efficiently operate the required equipment; and
      (12)   A bond, filed with the County Clerk, either in cash or
underwritten by a surety company licensed to do business in the state, at the
rate of $1 per person for the maximum number of people permitted to assemble,
which shall indemnify and hold harmless the county, or any of its agents,
officers, servants and employees, from any liability or causes of action which
might arise by reason of granting this license, and from any cost incurred in
cleaning up any waste material produced or left by the assembly.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-6) (Ord. 55, passed 5-18-1971) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 TIME LIMIT FOR ISSUANCE.
   The application for a license shall be processed within 20 days of receipt
and shall be issued if all conditions are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-7) (Ord. 55, passed 5-18-1971)
§ 93.08 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The license may be revoked by the County Commission at any time any of the
conditions necessary for the issuing of or contained in the license are not
complied with, or if any condition previously met ceases to be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-8) (Ord. 55, passed 5-18-1971)
§ 93.09 ENFORCEMENT; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter may be enforced by injunction in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The holding of an assembly in violation of any provisions or
conditions contained in this subchapter shall be deemed a public nuisance and
may be abated as such.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-9) (Ord. 55, passed 5-18-1971) Penalty, see §
93.99
SPECIAL EVENTS AND ORGANIZED ROAD EVENT PERMIT PROGRAM
§ 93.20 CREATED.
   The special events and organized road event permit program is hereby created
and implemented as follows in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-1) (Ord. 09-05, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 93.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR. An individual who is primarily responsible for the proposed
event. The COORDINATOR is responsible to generate and provide the written
notice of the event to the Sheriff’s office. This person must, at the time
notice is given to the Sheriff’s office, have the authority to address and
resolve the issues covered in this policy.
   ORGANIZED EVENT or EVENT.
      (1)   Includes coordinated running, walking, bicycling or similar
activities, which will involve or potentially involve, movement of a group of
individuals on roadways within the county as a result of an activity or program
that does not or did not originate by way of authorizing action on the part of
the county.
      (2)   Generally, these activities may have registration of participants,
espouse a specific cause or issue, have more or less structured administrative
actions or support personnel, utilize advertisement, awards or recognition and
have more than 20 expected participants.
   SHERIFF LIAISON or LIAISON. The Sheriff, or his or her designee, who acts as
the point of contact for and with an event coordinator. The LIAISON will
conduct an analysis of any proposed event and work with the designated event
coordinator prior to approval or denial of the event permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-2) (Ord. 09-05, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 93.22 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit is required for all organized events, as defined above, within the
boundaries of the county. Failure to obtain a permit is a class B misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-3) (Ord. 09-05, passed 1-5-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 EXEMPTION FROM PERMIT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be applied to regulate the use
of traditional public forums as alternative channels of communication by the
public, provided such use is for the free exercise of constitutionally
protected activities and does not disrupt or interfere with traffic on public
streets or the use of public places by other members of the public.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-4) (Ord. 09-05, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 93.24 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A written notice must be given to the Sheriff’s office 30 calendar
days prior to the event. The notice will be done on a form designated by the
Sheriff’s Department. Failure to give such advance notice may be grounds for
denial of the event permit at the discretion of the Sheriff’s liaison.
   (B)   Notice will include:
      (1)   The purpose and type of event;
      (2)   Identification of event coordinator or representative, to include
contact phone numbers;
      (3)   Date and time of the proposed event including proposed staging and
ending times;
      (4)   A map indicating the proposed route including starting and ending
points and refreshment stations;
      (5)   Anticipated number of participants;
      (6)   Identification of any specific assistance being requested from the
county such as traffic control, medical standby, security and the like; and
      (7)   Potential or anticipated concerns related to the events.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-5) (Ord. 09-05, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 93.25 REVIEW.
   (A)   The Sheriff’s office will designate a liaison for the event that will
review the written notice.
   (B)   If any concerns are identified, the liaison will interact with the
coordinator to try and resolve them. The Sheriff’s office has the authority to
regulate and change the route of the activity, location of refreshment
stations, staffing of event and Sheriff personnel requirements, support vehicle
activities, access to the route and any other matter concerning the event
related to public safety. If any concerns are identified that would involve
medical, fire, or within the boundaries of Morgan City, the liaison will
coordinate those efforts with those agencies.
   (C)   The Sheriff’s liaison will issue written notice on a form to be
adopted by the Sheriff’s office indicating approval or denial of the event. The
document will be forwarded to the identified event coordinator. If approved,
the event coordinator will then obtain a permit from the County Sheriff’s
office and will pay any designated fees.
   (D)   In the event the liaison and the coordinator are unable to
satisfactorily address the concerns of the Sheriff’s office, the Sheriff’s
office may cancel the event at any time prior to or during the event. The
coordinator may then appeal to the County Commission for a repeal of the
cancellation or denial.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-6) (Ord. 09-05, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 93.26 COUNTY PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Approval of any activity is done only in an attempt to maximize public
safety. Approval or denial does not indicate support or opposition to any cause
or objective adopted or supported by the event organizers or participants.
   (B)   Approval or denial will not be done in violation of federal or state
laws, the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the state.
Approval shall be at the discretion of the Sheriff as to what, if any, level of
participation will take place by department personnel and what department
resources will be used.
   (C)   It is the sole responsibility of each organization applying for a
special event permit under this policy to address insurance issues, liability
waivers and the like.
   (D)   The county assumes no liability or obligation to or on behalf of any
participants, spectators, sponsors or others to provide for insurance coverage
for any incident that may be related to an approved event.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-7) (Ord. 09-05, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
93.01 through
93.09 of this code, or who violates any condition upon which he or she is
granted a license, is guilty of a class C misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-10) (Ord. 55, passed 5-18-1971)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   CONTRACTORS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Business license requirements
   
110.03   Beer license
   
110.04   Solicitor’s license
   
110.05   Appeals of license denial
   
110.06   Posting license
   
110.07   Revocation
   
110.08   Delinquent date
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. All activities engaged in within the unincorporated limits of the
county, carried on for the purpose of gain or economic profit, except the acts
of employees rendering service to employers.
   BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED. Every person, whether directly or indirectly, who
transacts, engages in or operates a business within the unincorporated area of
the county, shall obtain, maintain and renew a county business license for that
business for each and every calendar year in which said business is in
operation.
   EACH SEPARATE PLACE OR BUSINESS. Each separate establishment or place of
operation, whether or not operating under the same name, within the
unincorporated area of the county, including home or another place of lodging,
if the same is held out by advertisements, listings or otherwise as the
establishment or place of operation of a person engaging in any business within
the county.
   EMPLOYEE. The operator, owner or manager of a place of business and any
persons employed by such person in the operation of said place of business in
any capacity, and also any salesperson, agent or independent contractor engaged
in the operation of the place of business in any capacity.
   ENGAGING IN BUSINESS. Anyone engaging in business in the county, including
the sale or offering of any goods, merchandise or performing any service for
monetary exchange or valuable consideration must be licensed.
   FEES. 
      (1)   Regulatory non-refundable fee imposed. The applicant shall pay such
FEES as stated in the county’s most recently adopted fee schedule.
      (2)   If the applicant’s zoning compliance application is approved as a
class I home occupation or a class II home occupation a FEE will not be charged
for the business license. If the applicant’s zoning compliance application is
approved as class III or commercial, a FEE will be charged for the business
license.
   HOME-BASED BUSINESS. An occupation conducted entirely within a dwelling unit
or permitted accessory building where the combined offsite impact of the HOME-
BASED BUSINESS and the primary residential use does not materially exceed the
offsite impact of the primary residential use alone.
   TRANSFER PROHIBITED. No license granted or issued under the provisions of
this chapter may be assigned, transferred or sold by the licensee, nor may the
license be used for any purpose or business other than that for which said
license was issued. Furthermore, a business license issued for a particular
location may not be transferred for use to another location. Any county
business licenses transferred or used as described in this section are deemed
revoked.
   UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT LICENSE. It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in business within the county without first procuring the license(s)
and/or permit(s) required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 17-35, passed 12-5-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Businesses excepted from license. The following businesses shall not
be required to obtain a county business license under this chapter:
      (1)   Temporary seasonal businesses engaged in the retail sale of
agricultural products through roadside stands or directly from fields, orchards
or gardens, not to exceed 90 days in any calendar year;
      (2)   Agricultural businesses consisting of farming upon premises leased
or owned by the business; and
      (3)   A business that is operated only occasionally and by an individual
who is under 18 years of age.
   (B)   Application for licenses and renewals.
      (1)   Each person operating a business must submit an application for the
issuance or renewal of licenses.
      (2)   All applications for licenses shall include the following
information:
         (a)   The name of person applying for the license and the name of the
business;
         (b)   The type and nature of the business, calling, trade or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on pursuant to said license;
         (c)   The place where such business is to be carried on, giving the
street address of the business to be carried on in any building, and a legal
description of the premises;
         (d)   Any other information required by the County Clerk;
         (e)   Name, address and telephone numbers of those persons needing
notification of an emergency at this business;
         (f)   A copy of the approved zoning compliance application;
         (g)   If the business for which a license is applied is regulated by
the state and requires a state license, the applicant must produce that state
license, or evidence thereof, and must keep it current; and
         (h)   A criminal background check will be required for all applicants
dealing with child daycare, housekeepers and solicitors. A current background
check must be attached to all applications. Please visit the Bureau of Criminal
Identification at http://www.bci.utah.gov.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the completed application and the required fee, the
office of the County Clerk shall review such for compliance with this chapter.
Should the application be deemed incomplete or the required fee not be
included, said application will be returned to the applicant with an
explanation as to its deficiencies. Once an application is found to be
complete, the County Clerk may submit such to other county departments for
review as deemed appropriate by the County Clerk. Should any one or more of
these departments find sufficient evidence from the application that a license
should not be issued, an explanation for the recommended denial will be
forwarded to the County Clerk. The County Clerk shall provide the applicant
with a copy of the explanation for denial.
      (4)   The business license shall be renewed by February 1 of each year. A
penalty will be assessed to the business if renewal is received after February
1 of each year.
      (5)   The license may be denied if:
         (a)   The applicant has been convicted of a fraud or felony by any
state or federal court within the past five years or now has a criminal
proceedings pending against him or her in any state or federal court for fraud
or felony;
         (b)   The applicant has obtained a license by fraud or deceit;
         (c)   The applicant has failed to pay personal property taxes or other
required taxes or fees imposed by the county unless a deferral of such taxes
has been approved by the County Commission in accordance with state law;
         (d)   Real property taxes are delinquent for any real property and
improvements used by applicant to conduct its business unless a deferral of
such taxes has been approved by the County Commission in accordance with state
law; or
         (e)   The applicant has violated the laws of the state, the United
States or the ordinances of the county governing the operation of the business
for which the applicant is applying for the license.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2) (Ord. 17-35, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 110.03 BEER LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of selling
beer wholesale or retail in the county without first obtaining a license for
and without complying with the ordinances of the county and the state’s
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being UCA § 32B-1-101.
   (A)   Class A retail license shall entitle the licensee to sell beer on the
licensed premises in the original containers for consumption off the premises
as permitted by law.
   (B)   Class B retail license shall entitle the licensee to sell beer on the
premises in the original containers for consumption on the premises as
permitted by law.
   (C)   Class C retail license shall entitle the licensee to sell beer on
draft or in its original containers for consumption on or off the premises as
permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. 17-35, passed 12-5-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 SOLICITOR’S LICENSE.
   Anyone selling a product or service door to door (residential) must have a
solicitor’s license.
   (A)   The first step is to obtain a copy of the criminal history from the
Bureau of Criminal Identification within the last 180 days. If the solicitor is
not a resident of the state, then besides completing the state’s Bureau of
Criminal Investigations, he or she will also need to bring in another
background check from the state of permanent residency also within 180 days.
   (B)   (1)   Once the criminal background check is completed, he or she may
fill out the application for a county solicitor’s license. A copy of a valid
driver’s license, valid passport or valid identification card issued by any
state of the United States must be attached to the application.
      (2)   The applicant must also submit two recent photographs
electronically to the County Clerk. If the application is approved, the
applicant will be issued a badge that must be worn at all times while
soliciting in the county.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the criminal history report, solicitor’s application,
copy of driver’s license and required fee, the application will be reviewed.
Upon approval, a badge and license will be issued. The badge is to be worn
whenever soliciting in the county.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) (Ord. 17-35, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 110.05 APPEALS OF LICENSE DENIAL.
   Any denial for a business license may be appealed to the County Commission
within 14 days of notification of such denial. All appeals must be made in
writing and the County Commission will schedule a hearing on such within 30
days of receipt of appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) (Ord. 17-35, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 110.06 POSTING LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of any person licensed under this chapter to keep such
license posted in a prominent place on premises used for such business at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) (Ord. 17-35, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 110.07 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked for:
      (1)   Filing a false or fraudulent license application;
      (2)   Being convicted or pleading guilty to a criminal or civil action by
the state’s Tax Commission for the collection of, or arising from, the non-
payment of taxes imposed by or collected by the state;
      (3)   Using the business as a front for or site of illegal activity;
      (4)   Engaging in its business without acquiring the appropriate
additional approvals, licenses and permits required by county ordinance, state
or federal law; and/or
      (5)   Failing to pay real or personal property taxes on any real and
personal property or improvements used by applicant to conduct its business,
unless a deferral of such taxes has been approved by the county legislative
body in accordance with state law.
   (B)   Notification of the license revocation hearing shall be sent by the
County Clerk to the licensee at the address provided on the application. Such
notice shall be sent by certified mail. The hearing shall be held at least 14
days from the date of the notice, but not more than 30 days. At the hearing,
the County Commission may revoke or suspend the license, place the licensee on
probation for a period of less than one year and impose conditions thereon, or
take no action at all, as the circumstances merit.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7) (Ord. 17-35, passed 12-5-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 DELINQUENT DATE.
   All license fees provided for in this chapter shall be paid annually in
advance, by the licensee to the County Clerk on or before February 1 of each
year, and shall be effective through December 31 of that year. In the event
renewal fees are not received prior to March 1, a penalty will be assessed.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9) (Ord. 17-35, passed 12-5-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof, during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is committed, continued or permitted. A violation of this chapter is a
class B misdemeanor, except that in all cases where a corporation would be
punishable as a misdemeanor, and there is no other punishment prescribed by
ordinance, such corporation is punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8) (Ord. 17-35, passed 12-5-2017)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Prohibited sales and distribution
   
111.03   Regulation of containers larger than two liters
   
111.04   Hours regulated
   
111.05   Liberal construction rule
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. Any beverage containing not less than 0.5% of alcohol by weight and
obtained by the alcoholic fermentation or an infusion or decoction, or of any
malt or grain, or similar products, and which contain not more than 3.2% of
alcohol by weight and may or may not contain hops or other vegetable products,
and includes ale, stout or porter.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, association, partnership and corporation or
combination thereof.
   RETAILER. Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to a
consumer.
   SALE or TO SELL. Shall be construed to include the following: To solicit or
to receive an order for; to keep or expose for sale; to deliver for value or
gratuitously to peddle; to possess with intent to sell; to traffic in; or to
procure or allow to be procured for any other person for any consideration or
promises obtained directly or indirectly, or under any pretext or by any means
whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 71, passed 11-15-1977)
§ 111.02 PROHIBITED SALES AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away beer at any
public dance or gathering, for any person to sell or give away beer to any
person who is intoxicated or who is under the influence of an intoxicating
beverage or for any person to sell or to give away beer to any minor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell or give away to any minor or for any
person to employ or to have in service any minor to dispense or serve beer in
or about any premises or place where beer is sold.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to allow any intoxicated person to loiter in or
about a premises or place where beer is sold or to permit profanity, indecent,
immoral, loud or boisterous language or immoral or loud conduct in or about
such place or premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. 71, passed 11-15-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 REGULATION OF CONTAINERS LARGER THAN TWO LITERS.
   (A)   A person may not sell, offer to sell or otherwise furnish or supply
beer or liquor to the general public in containers larger than two liters. This
does not preclude licensed beer wholesalers from selling, offering to sell or
otherwise furnishing or supplying beer in containers larger than two liters to
beer retailers authorized by state law to dispense beer on draft for
consumption on the beer retailer’ licensed premises.
   (B)   Other than beer wholesalers or class A, B or C licensees, no person
shall:
      (1)   Possess beer or liquor in a container larger than two liters;
      (2)   Withdraw or dispense beer or liquor from a container larger than
two liters; or
      (3)   Possess or consume beer or liquor which has been withdrawn or
dispensed from a container larger than two liters. This division (B)(3) shall
not apply to persons possessing or consuming draft beer on premises and
dispensed by a class A, B or C licensee.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 00-04, passed 6-20-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 HOURS REGULATED.
   The hours permitted for the consumption and sale of beer at retail or
wholesale shall be as provided and regulated in UCA § 32A-10-206, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. 71, passed 11-15-1977)
§ 111.05 LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION RULE.
   The rule that a penal statute or ordinance is to be strictly construed shall
not apply to this chapter and to its provisions or to any offenses defined
hereunder. All provisions of this chapter and all offenses defined herein shall
be construed according to the fair import of their terms to promote justice and
to affect the objects of the law and the general purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5) (Ord. 71, passed 11-15-1977)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person convicted of violating §
111.03(A) or (B) of this code shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
   (C)   Any person who shall engage in the sale of beer within the
unincorporated areas of the county contrary to the terms or provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6)
(Ord. 71, passed 11-15-1977; Ord. 00-04, passed 6-20-2000)
CHAPTER 112: CONTRACTORS
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Exemptions
   
112.03   Classes of licenses
   
112.04   Application for license
   
112.05   Fee for license
   
112.06   Term; renewal
   
112.07   Revocation of license
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   County license. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
copartnership, corporation, association or other organization or any
combination thereof, to engage in business or to act in the capacity of a
contractor within the county, without having a license therefor as herein
provided, unless such person, firm, copartnership, corporation, association or
other organization is particularly exempt as provided in §
112.02 of this code.
   (B)   Evidence of engaging in business. Evidence of the securing of any
construction or building permit from the county or the employment of any person
on a construction project shall be accepted in the courts of the county as
prima facia evidence of engaging in business or acting in the capacity of a
contractor.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 47, passed 5-6-1968) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   An authorized representative or representatives of the United States
government, the state or any county, incorporated city or town, irrigation
district, reclamation district or other municipal or political corporation or
subdivision of this state;
   (B)   Any construction or operation incidental to the construction and
repair of irrigation and drainage ditches of regularly constituted irrigation
districts and reclamation districts, or to farming, dairying, agriculture,
viticulture, horticulture or stock or poultry raising, metal and coal mining,
quarries, sand and gravel excavations, well drilling, hauling and lumbering;
   (C)   Trustees of an express trust, or officers of a court, providing they
are acting within the terms of their trust or office, respectively;
   (D)   Public utilities operating under the regulations of the Public
Utilities Commission on construction work incidental to their own business;
   (E)   Sole owners of property building structures thereon for their own use;
or
   (F)   Any contractor submitting a bid on a federal aid highway project;
provided, that prior to undertaking any construction under that bid, the
contractor shall be licensed under the terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 47, passed 5-6-1968)
§ 112.03 CLASSES OF LICENSES.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be the following
classes.
   (A)   General engineering contractor’s license. A GENERAL ENGINEERING
CONTRACTOR is a contractor whose principal contracting business is in
connection with fixed works for any or all of the following divisions or
subjects: Irrigation; drainage; waterpower; water supply; flood control; inland
waterways; harbors; railroads; highways; tunnels; airports and airways;
sewerage; and bridges.
   (B)   General building contractor’s license. A GENERAL BUILDING CONTRACTOR
is a contractor whose principal contracting business is in connection with any
structure built, being built or to be built for the support, shelter and
enclosure or persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind,
requiring in its construction the use of more than two unrelated building
trades or crafts or to do or superintend the whole or any part thereof, but
does not include anyone who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating them into or consuming them in the performance of the work of the
general building contractor.
   (C)   Specialty contractor’s license. A SPECIALTY CONTRACTOR is a contractor
whose operations as such are the performance of construction work requiring
special skill and whose principal contracting business involves the use of
specialized building trades or crafts. The administrator shall classify
specialty contractors into such classifications as are common in the trade, and
a separate license shall be required for each such classification of specialty
contractor.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 47, passed 5-6-1968)
§ 112.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Each application for a license shall be submitted to the Building
Inspector and shall indicate that the applicant has been issued a contractor’s
license by the state and the license number issued by the state to the
applicant. The Building Inspector shall not approve a license to any contractor
who is not the holder of a valid contractor’s license issued by the state. When
approved, the license shall be signed by the Building Inspector, and the
Building Inspector shall keep a list of licenses issued, stating the number,
name, time, place and kind of business and amount paid, with such remarks as
may be considered necessary.
   (B)   Each license shall specify by name the person, firm, copartnership,
corporation, association or other organization to whom it is issued, and shall
designate the principal place of business of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) (Ord. 47, passed 5-6-1968)
§ 112.05 FEE FOR LICENSE.
   The fees for the issuance of a license under this chapter shall be as
established by resolution of the County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5) (Ord. 47, passed 5-6-1968)
§ 112.06 TERM; RENEWAL.
   (A)   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter, unless
sooner suspended or revoked as herein provided, shall elapse and expire on
December 31 of each year.
   (B)   The administrator shall, at least 30 days prior to such expiration
date, notify each licensed contractor of such expiration. Such notice shall be
given by mail addressed to each contractor’s last known address, and such
notice shall enclose an application form for a renewal.
   (C)   An application for renewal of an existing license, on a form
prescribed by the administrator, accompanied by a fee as provided for in this
chapter, filed with the administrator prior to the expiration date, shall
authorize operations as a contractor by such licensee until actual issuance of
such renewal license for the ensuing year. All applications for renewal of
licensee shall be filed with the administrator not later than December 31 of
each year. Upon failure to so file, such licenses shall be renewed only upon
the payment of double the regular renewal fee. Any licensee who fails to renew
such a lapsed license within six months must thereafter apply for and receive a
new license as provided herein before he or she may do business as a
contractor.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6) (Ord. 47, passed 5-6-1968)
§ 112.07 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The County Commission shall, upon its own motion or upon the verified
complaint of any person, revoke any license issued hereunder wherein the
licensee has had his or her contractor’s license suspended or revoked by the
state for any of the acts or omissions described in UCA § 58-55, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7) (Ord. 47, passed 5-6-1968)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, copartnership, corporation, association or other
organization, acting in the capacity of contractor in the county, within the
meaning of this chapter, without a license as herein provided, shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-8) (Ord. 47, passed 5-6-1968)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal Code adopted by reference
   
130.02   Curfew for minors
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties, provisions
and sections of the state’s Criminal Code, UCA Title 76, as amended, with a
corresponding penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor or class B
misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the county. Any and all violations thereof
shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation shall be
subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. 154, passed 1-9-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to be or
remain in or upon any of the streets, alleys, public places or vacant lots
within the limits of the county at nighttime during the weekdays, Monday
through Thursday, and Sunday, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
unless such person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other person having
legal custody of such minor person, or whose employment makes it necessary to
be upon the streets during the nighttime after said specified hours unless
exempted under division (C) of this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to be or
remain in or upon any of the streets, alleys, public places or vacant lots
within the county at night during the weekend, Friday and Saturday, between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 6:00 a.m., unless such person is accompanied
by a parent, guardian or other person having the legal custody of such minor
person, or whose employment makes it necessary to be upon the streets during
the nighttime after said specified hours unless exempted under division (C) of
this section.
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 00-11, passed 9-9-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
130.02 of this code shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code, and may be arrested by any peace officer and delivered to
the probation officer for trial in the juvenile court in accordance with state
law.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 00-11, passed 9-9-2000)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS, PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   AIRPORT
      
155.   LAND USE
CHAPTER 150: STREETS, PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Street Excavations
   
150.01   Short title
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Permit required; exceptions
   
150.04   Conduct and requirements of excavations
   
150.05   Inspections
   
150.06   Guarantee
   
150.07   Emergency excavations
   
150.08   Enforcement
   
150.09   Nonliability of county
   
150.10   Appeals and requests for waivers or modifications
Parks and Public Grounds
   
150.25   Rules and regulations for usage
   
150.26   Trappers trail pedestrian path
   
150.27   County fairgrounds
Snow or Ice on Public Rights-of-Way
   
150.40   Placement of snow or ice on public rights-of-way prohibited
   
150.41   Snow or ice removal
 
   
150.99   Penalty
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 150.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Street Excavation
Ordinance of Morgan County.”
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 11-12, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
consistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   EXCAVATION. Any opening in the surface of a public place, made in any manner
whatsoever, except an opening into a lawful structure below the surface of a
public place, the top of which is flush with the adjoining surface and so
constructed as to permit frequent opening without injury or damage to the
public place.
   FACILITY. Pipe, pipeline, tube, main, service, trap, vent, vault, manhole,
meter, gauge, regulator, valve, conduit, wire, tower, pole, pole line, anchor,
cable, junction box, transformer or any other material, which is or may be
lawfully constructed, left, placed or maintained in, upon, along, across, under
or over any public place.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, right-of-way, place, alley, sidewalk, park,
square, plaza or any other similar public property owned or controlled by the
county and dedicated to public use.
   SUBSTRUCTURE. Any pipe, conduit, duct, tunnel, manhole, vault, buried cable
or wire or any other similar structure located below the surface of any public
place.
   UTILITY. A private company and/or corporation or municipal department
engaged in providing a particular service to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 11-12, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 150.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Application for permit. No excavation permit shall be issued unless a
written application for the issuance of an excavation permit is submitted to
the county. The written application shall state, at a minimum, the name,
address and principal place of business of the applicant, the location and
dimensions of the installation or removal and the approximate size and details
of the excavation to be made, an engineer’s cost estimate for the project, the
purpose of the facility, including backfilling and excavation and removing all
obstructions, material and debris. The application, when approved, shall
constitute the permit.
   (B)   Fee for permit. Excavation permit fees, if any, shall be in such
amounts as established by resolution of the County Commission.
   (C)   Business licenses, bond required. All applicants having an excavation
permit as herein provided shall be duly licensed and bonded contractors, or a
licensed public utility, and shall possess a license from the state or county,
as applicable.
   (D)   Condition of issuance. No permit shall be issued except that said
permit be conditioned upon the permittee securing and holding the county and
its officers harmless against any and all claims, judgments or other costs
arising from the excavation and other work covered by said excavation, all for
which the county, County Commission or any other county officer will not be
liable by reason of any accident or injury to persons or property through the
fault of the permit holder in not properly guarding the excavations or from any
other injury resulting from the negligence of said permittee.
   (E)   Approval. No permit shall be issued without review and approval from
the County Engineer, regardless of which county department is charged with
issuing the permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 11-12, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 150.04 CONDUCT AND REQUIREMENTS OF EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Protective measures and routing of traffic.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an
excavation in or upon any public place to place and maintain barriers and
warning devices necessary for safety of the general public.
      (2)   Barriers, warning signs, lights and the like, shall conform to the
requirements of the county and the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(MUTCD) and all other applicable industry standards.
      (3)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to ensure that during
the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions, as near as
possible, shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to
the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public.
      (4)   When traffic conditions permit (as determined by the County
Engineer), the county may, by written approval, permit the closing of streets
and alleys to all traffic for a prescribed period of time. The written approval
of the county may require that the permittee give notification to various
public agencies and to the general public, and in such cases, such written
approval shall not be valid until such notice is given.
   (B)   Clearance for vital structures. The excavation work shall be performed
and conducted so as not to interfere with access to fire hydrants, fire
stations, fire escapes, water gates, underground vaults, valve housing
structures and all other vital equipment as designated by the county.
   (C)   Protection of traffic. The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for
two lanes of vehicle traffic at all street intersections where possible, and
safe crossings for pedestrians at intervals of not more than 300 feet. If any
excavation is made across any public street, alley or sidewalk, adequate
crossings shall be maintained for vehicles and for pedestrians. If the street
is not wide enough to hold the excavated material without using part of the
adjacent sidewalk, an alternate pedestrian passageway shall be provided as
close as practicable.
   (D)   Relocation and protection of utilities.
      (1)   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility
without the written consent of the owner of the facility. If it becomes
necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall be done with written
consent by its owner. No facility owned by the county shall be moved to
accommodate the permittee unless approved by the county and the cost of such
work be borne by the permittee. The cost of moving privately-owned facilities
shall be similarly borne by the permittee, unless the permittee makes other
arrangements with the person owning the facility.
      (2)   The permittee shall support and protect all pipes, conduits, poles,
wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by the excavation
work, and do everything necessary to support, sustain and protect them under,
over, along or across said work. The permittee shall secure approval of method
of support and protection from the owner of the facility. In case any of said
pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should be damaged, and for this
purpose pipe coating or other encasement or devices are to be considered as
part of the substructure, the permittee shall promptly notify the owner
thereof. All damaged facilities shall be repaired by the agency or person
owning them and the expense of such repairs shall be charged to the permittee.
      (3)   It is the intent of this division (D) that the permittee shall
assume all liability for damage to facilities and any resulting damage or
injury to anyone because of such facility damage and such assumption of
liability is a contractual obligation of the permittee. The only exception will
be such instances where damage is exclusively due to the negligence of the
owning utility. The county shall not be made a party to any action because of
this division (D). The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and
location of all underground facilities and protect the same against damage.
   (E)   Protection of adjoining property. The permittee shall at all times and
at his or her own expense preserve and protect from injury any adjoining
property by providing proper foundations and taking other measures suitable for
the purpose. Wherein the protection of such property it is necessary to enter
upon private property for the purpose of taking appropriate protective
measures, the permittee shall obtain permission from the owner of such private
property for such purpose. The permittee shall, at its own expense, shore up
and protect all buildings, wells, fences or other property likely to be damaged
during the progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for all
damage to public or private property or highways resulting from its failure
properly to protect and carry out said work. Whenever it may be necessary for
the permittee to trench through any lawn area, bald areas shall be resodded or
the sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been
backfilled as required in this subchapter. All construction and maintenance
work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth
and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that which existed
before such work began. The permittee shall not remove, even temporarily, any
trees or shrubs which exist in parking strip areas without first obtaining the
consent of the appropriate county department or county official having control
of such property.
   (F)   Care of excavated material.
      (1)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the
trench or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such a manner as to
not endanger those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets,
and so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using
streets and adjoining property. Where the confines of the area being excavated
are too narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench,
such as might be the case in a narrow alley, the County Engineer shall have the
authority to require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a
storage site and then rehaul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling.
It shall be the permittee’s responsibility to secure the necessary permission
and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal
sites. All excavation work shall meet Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) requirements.
      (2)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of
the trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as
reasonably possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the
County Engineer. Whenever necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic
or to abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins or other approved
devices may be required to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
   (G)   Cleanup. As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be
thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris
resulting from such work. All cleanup operations at the location of such
excavation shall be accomplished at the expense of the permittee. From time to
time, and in any event, immediately after completion of said work, the
permittee shall, at his or her own expense, clean up and remove all refuse and
unused materials of any kind resulting from said work.
   (H)   Protection of watercourses.
      (1)   The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for
the full depth of the adjacent curb, and for at least one foot in width from
the face of such curb at the gutter line. Whenever a gutter crosses an
intersecting street, an adequate waterway shall be provided and at all times
maintained.
      (2)   The permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus
water, mulch, silt, slicking or other runoff pumped from excavations or
resulting from sluicing or other operations and shall be responsible for any
damage resulting from its failure to so provide.
   (I)   Breaking through pavement and backfilling.
      (1)   Permit required. Any pipe, cable, structure or facility to be
constructed on, in or through any of the roads which have been conditionally or
finally accepted by the county will be permitted only after the applicant has
obtained a written permit from the county. Pipes or cables may be required to
be augured, pushed, tunneled or jetted under the roadway by the County Engineer
in cases where the road has not yet been accepted by the county or when the
facility has been accepted for less than two years. Open cutting of any road
which has been surfaced with bituminous concrete, or rigid concrete paving, is
prohibited, except with the written permission of the County Engineer.
      (2)   Supervision required; procedures. Backfill, repair and replacement
of all excavations within the county right-of-way will be done under the direct
supervision of the County Engineer.
         (a)   Open cuts. Open cuts through paved roadways when permitted will
be accomplished as follows.
            1.   Cutting and removing. The pavement shall be saw cut vertically
along the lines forming the trench in such a manner as not to damage the
adjoining pavement. The portion to be removed shall be broken up so as not to
damage the pavement outside the limits of the trench. Any pavement damaged
outside the limits of the trench shall be replaced at the contractor’s expense.
All waste material resulting from the above operations shall be immediately
removed from the site of the work and disposed of.
            2.   Backfill procedure at pipe zone. Selected approved backfill
material shall be deposited and compacted in the trench simultaneously on both
sides of the pipe in an eight-inch layer for the full width of the trench and
to an elevation of at least 12 inches above the top of the barrel of pipes.
            3.   Backfill procedure above pipe zone. Succeeding layers of
backfill in pipe trenches may contain coarser materials placed and compacted in
horizontal layers not over eight inches thick and the full width of the trench.
            4.   Backfill materials. Backfill should consist of selected sands,
gravels or other suitable material approved by the County Engineer.
               a.   Where consolidation of cohesionless free draining
materials, such as sands and gravels, is performed by a hand or mechanical
tamper, the material shall be deposited in horizontal layers across the length
or width of the embankment, not more than six inches thick after being
consolidated.
               b.   Where saturation and immersion type vibration methods are
used, the thickness of the layers being consolidated shall not exceed the
penetration length of the vibrating head. Consolidation of embankments may be
performed by treads of a crawler type tractor or tamping roller, internal
vibrators, power tampers or other equipment approved by the County Engineer may
be used for consolidating backfills where hand methods are specified.
               c.   During a consolidation operation, the material shall be
wetted thoroughly throughout the entire layer. If the material is not wetted
for proper compaction, the consolidation operation shall not proceed until such
time as proper wetting is secured. Where saturation and internal vibration
methods are used, saturation may be accomplished by water jets, puddling,
flooding or by any other method that will provide suitable saturation when
vibration is begun.
               d.   Immersion type vibrators shall be of adequate power to
consolidate the mass to the required density. If water jets are used, the
vibrator shall be removed from the mass immediately after the jet is removed.
The relative density of the consolidated material shall be not less than 95% as
determined by ASTM 1557.
         (b)   Temporary pavement. Where pavement is to be restored or rebuilt
over a trench section, the upper one foot of the trench excavation shall be
backfilled with road base material and maintained in a smooth condition until
the permanent pavement is built. Cold mix for temporary surface may be used.
         (c)   Untreated base course (UBC). UBC shall meet minimum standards of
the American Public Works Association (APWA), as approved by the County
Engineer.
         (d)   Rigid concrete pavement. Concrete pavement, sidewalk and curb
and gutter removed in the line of work shall be replaced with approved
concrete. The new slab shall be as thick as the original slab, but not less
than eight inches in the case of street pavement, and no less than four inches
in the case of sidewalk. Curb and gutter shall be replaced to match the
original design. Slabs shall be wood float finished or to match the existing
pavement. Expansion joints shall be installed at the same locations as in
existing pavement.
         (e)   Hot mix asphalt (HMA). Plant-mixed bituminous paving shown on
plans or removed in the line of work shall be manufactured and placed in the
manner prescribed by current APWA standards approved by the County Engineer.
Trench patches shall be t-type patches, in accordance with APWA standards
approved by the County Engineer.
         (f)   Damaging 50% of street surface. When 50% or more of the existing
street surface is damaged and/or removed during the course of any work thereon,
the contractor responsible for such damage or removal will be required to
remove the remainder of the hard surfacing and replace with all new material in
accordance with the specifications. The County Engineer will determine when 50%
or more of the road surface has been damaged. Failure to comply will result in
non-release of the deposited financial guarantee, or other legal action when
necessary.
         (g)   Winter patching hard-surfaced streets.
            1.   When hard-surfaced streets are cut into during winter
conditions, a temporary cold mix surface, a minimum of two inches thick, shall
be placed and compacted. Unfavorable conditions for placing asphalt paving will
be determined by the County Engineer.
            2.   Whenever weather conditions are favorable for placing asphalt
surface, the contractor will remove the temporary surface and replace the
asphalt in accordance with these specifications.
         (h)   Standards and specifications. These standards and specifications
provide only the basic information. If the item under question or a
construction procedure is not thoroughly outlined in these documents, the
contractor and/or subdivider shall contact the County Engineer in writing for
his or her interpretation of, or specification for, the specific item in
question.
   (J)   Noise, dust and debris. Each permittee shall conduct and carry out
excavation work in such manner as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and
annoyance to the general public and occupants of neighboring property. The
permittee shall not perform excavation work or create noise, dust and unsightly
debris between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., without approval from the
County Commission, subject to emergency excavations described in §
150.07 of this code which does not require construction work preapproval.
   (K)   Preservation of monuments. Any monument set for the purpose of
locating or preserving the lines of any street or property subdivision, or a
precise survey reference point, or a permanent survey benchmark within the
county, shall not be removed or disturbed or caused to be removed or disturbed.
Permission to remove or disturb such monuments, reference points or benchmarks
shall only be granted upon condition that the person applying for such
permission shall pay all expenses incident to the proper replacement of this
monument by the Building Inspector.
   (L)   Prompt completion of work. After an excavation is commenced, the
permittee shall prosecute with diligence and expedition all excavation work
covered by the excavation permit and shall promptly complete such work and
restore the street to its original condition, or as near as may be, so as not
to obstruct the public place of travel thereon more than is reasonably
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. 11-12, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 150.05 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Required; request for inspection. All construction work shall be
inspected and approved by the County Engineer or his or her authorized
representative. Requests for inspection shall be made at least one day prior to
the date of inspection. All approvals shall be in writing.
      (1)   All pipe work and other facilities to be buried shall be inspected
and approved before being covered.
      (2)   Approvals are required for roadway subgrades, base courses and
surfaces. Each item must be approved before placement of the concrete.
   (B)   Continuous inspections. Continuous inspection is required for the
following:
      (1)   Road surfacing;
      (2)   Pouring concrete curb, gutters, sidewalks and structures; and
      (3)   Laying water, sewer and drainage pipe and installing their
appurtenant facilities.
   (C)   Periodic inspections. Periodic inspection is required for the
following:
      (1)   Street excavation, grading and compaction of subgrade and base
courses; and
      (2)   Excavation.
   (D)   Rejection.
      (1)   The contractor shall prosecute work only in the presence of a
properly authorized inspector. Any work done in the absence of said inspector
is subject to rejection.
      (2)   The contractor shall furnish the inspector, at all times,
reasonable facilities for obtaining such information as he or she may desire
regarding the progress, method of doing the work, as well as the character of
the materials being used.
   (E)   Defective work. No work, which may be defective in its construction,
or deficient in any of the requirements of these specifications, will be
considered as accepted as a consequence of the failure of any officers of the
county, or inspector connected with the work, to point out said defects or
deficiencies during construction. The contractor shall correct any imperfect
work when and whenever discovered, before the final acceptance of the work by
the county.
   (F)   Testing. At the request of the County Engineer, the permittee will
perform such tests in the presence of the County Engineer, as necessary to
prove such compliance with these specifications. The costs will be performed by
and certified to by a qualified, licensed professional engineer.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5) (Ord. 11-12, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 GUARANTEE.
   (A)   The permittee shall warrant and guarantee that the work within the
public place provided for hereunder, and every part thereof will remain free
from defects in material and workmanship for a period of one year after the
date of final inspection approval by the County Engineer and agrees to make all
repairs to and maintain the improvements, and every part thereof, in good
condition during that one-year period at no cost to the county. In cases where
climatic or geotechnical conditions warrant further observation, or when there
is a record of past poor performance, the County Engineer may require a two-
year warranty period, in accordance with the state code.
   (B)   The guarantee hereby stipulated shall extend to and include, but shall
not be limited to, the entire street, subgrade, base surface, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks and other accessories that are, or may be, affected by the
construction operations, and whenever, in the judgment of the County Engineer,
said work shall be in need of repairs, maintenance or rebuilding, and upon the
applicant’s failure to do so within ten days from the date of the written
notice, the County Engineer shall have such repairs made, and the cost of such
repairs shall be paid by the forfeiture of the financial guarantee. Where the
financial guarantee does not cover the costs of the required repairs, the
balance shall be billed directly to the applicant. If the applicant fails to
pay the cost of any required repairs, the county is authorized to withhold
future permits and proceed with other legal remedies available.
   (C)   Prior to an applicant’s commencement of construction, financial
guarantees for excavations shall be in the form of a cash escrow or performance
surety bond equal to 15% of the engineer’s cost estimate for the project. The
guarantee shall be deposited and/or executed prior to the issuance of the
permit. As long as the financial security covers an amount equal to or in
excess of 15% cost of all active projects, a developer may post a revolving
security on an annual basis. In the event the applicant fails to complete
construction in a safe, timely and competent manner, there shall be
recoverable, jointly and severally from the principal and surety at the bond,
any actual loss suffered by the county as a result of such failure.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6) (Ord. 11-12, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 EMERGENCY EXCAVATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the making of such
excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property, or
for the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs;
provided, that the person making such excavation shall apply to the county for
such a permit on the first working day after such work is commenced.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7) (Ord. 11-12, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 150.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Engineer or an authorized designee shall make such inspections as
are reasonably necessary in the enforcement of this subchapter. They shall have
the authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations
as may be reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8) (Ord. 11-12, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 150.09 NONLIABILITY OF COUNTY.
   This subchapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the county or any
official or employee any liability or responsibility for damages to any person
injured by the performance of any excavation work for which an excavation
permit is issued hereunder, nor shall the county or any official or employee
thereof be deemed to have assumed such liability or responsibility by reason of
inspections authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit or the approval of
any excavation work.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9) (Ord. 11-12, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 150.10 APPEALS AND REQUESTS FOR FEE OR FINANCIAL GUARANTEE WAIVERS OR
MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person affected by the issuance or denial of a permit pursuant to
this subchapter may appeal that decision within ten calendar days of the date
of decision by the County Engineer or other issuing county employee. An appeal
application shall state the reason for appeal, any pertinent facts, and shall
be accompanied by the fee set by the county for administrative appeals.
   (B)   Any applicant may apply to the County Commission for a modification or
waiver of required fees, financial guarantee amounts or the type of financial
guarantee accepted for a project. The County Commission as the legislative body
for the county has the authority to modify such requirements, with or without
recommendation.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-10) (Ord. 11-12, passed 10-4-2011)
PARKS AND PUBLIC GROUNDS
§ 150.25 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR USAGE.
   (A)   “Public grounds” defined. PUBLIC GROUNDS, as used in this section,
shall mean all real property owned by the county, other than roads, rights-of-
way and easements.
   (B)   Regulations for usage. For the protection of the health and safety of
the citizens of the county, the following regulations are adopted for all
county parks and public grounds.
      (1)   Camping; fires. There shall be no unauthorized overnight camping.
Fires are prohibited except in designated areas.
      (2)   Vehicles on lawn. There shall be no unauthorized vehicles permitted
on the lawn, including, but not limited to, motorcycles, cars, trucks,
snowmobiles and bicycles.
      (3)   Rollerblading and skateboarding. Rollerblading and skateboarding
are prohibited, except in designated areas permitting their use.
      (4)   Golfing and archery. There will be no golfing or archery.
      (5)   Horses on lawn. There will be no horses, mules, donkeys or cattle
on the lawns.
      (6)   Dogs and household pets. All dogs and other household pets must be
leashed by the owner when on park and public property. Owners will be
responsible for cleaning up after their pet(s).
      (7)   Alcoholic beverages and controlled substances. No alcoholic
beverages or illegal controlled substances shall be used or consumed, nor
brought into the park or upon public grounds.
      (8)   Littering. Littering is prohibited.
      (9)   Conduct. Persons using county parks or public properties shall not
engage in any dangerous, hazardous, illegal or disorderly conduct deemed by
county law officials to affect the health, safety and welfare of the public
using the parks or public property, nor shall persons vandalize equipment or
facilities.
      (10)   Park hours. Except as specially authorized by the County
Commission or its designee, county parks shall be closed between 11:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. No vehicles may be left in the parks during these hours.
      (11)   Fireworks and firearms. All fireworks shall be banned, except
where authorized for special events. The use of all firearms shall be banned,
except as authorized by the County Sheriff or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 00-05A, passed 7-18-2000)
§ 150.26 TRAPPERS TRAIL PEDESTRIAN PATH.
   For the protection of the health and safety of the citizens of the county,
the following regulations are adopted for the trappers trail pedestrian path
(“path”).
   (A)   Motor vehicles. Motorized vehicles shall not be permitted on the path,
including, but not limited to, motorcycles, cars, trucks, snowmobiles and ATVs.
   (B)   Speed limits. Nonmotorized vehicles, including bicycles, shall not
exceed 15 mph.
   (C)   Littering. Littering is prohibited.
   (D)   Conduct. Persons using the path shall not engage in any dangerous,
hazardous, illegal or disorderly conduct deemed by county law officials to
affect the health, safety and welfare of the public using the path, nor shall
persons vandalize property, equipment or facilities.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 00-07, passed 8-15-2000)
§ 150.27 COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS.
   (A)   Prohibited. Except as provided in division (B) below, no person shall
bring into, consume, use or possess an “alcoholic beverage,” as defined in UCA
§ 32B-1-102, as amended, in the county fairgrounds during any event.
   (B)   Exception. The County Commission may, in its sole discretion, allow
for the sale, use and possession of alcoholic beverages by organizations whose
membership, by majority vote, approve it in the county fairgrounds for specific
events, under the following conditions:
      (1)   Proof of liability insurance in the form of a certificate of
insurance naming the county as certificate holder, in a form satisfactory to
the County Commission;
      (2)   Acquisition of a business license and compliance with the
conditions thereof; and
      (3)   Under such other terms and conditions the County Commission deems
appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 136, passed 6-9-1992)
SNOW OR ICE ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 150.40 PLACEMENT OF SNOW OR ICE ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   The county is in cooperation with the state to enforce safety of the public
rights-of-way by prohibiting anyone from placing or leaving anything on the
highway or public rights-of-way within the county, including snow or ice from
private driveways or parking lots. Violation of this provision is punishable by
a written warning at the discretion of the safety officer, or as a class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) (Ord. 06-01, passed 2-7-2006) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41 SNOW OR ICE REMOVAL.
   (A)   The county shall not be responsible for snow or ice removal from
sidewalks. The removal of snow or ice from sidewalks shall remain the
responsibility of the property owners immediately adjacent to and abutting the
sidewalk.
   (B)   The county shall not be responsible for snow or ice removal from
private property, including private roads, lanes and driveways.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2) (Ord. 14-07, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly shall violate any provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.10 of this code shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Such person is guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day during which any such violation or noncompliance occurs.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-11)
   (C)   Every person convicted of violating park and public grounds
regulations of §
150.25(B)(1) through (B)(6) and (B)(8) of this code, as prescribed herein,
shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided in
§
10.99 of this code. Every person convicted of violating park and public grounds
regulations of §
150.25(B)(7), (B)(9) and B(11) of this code, as prescribed herein, shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
   (D)   Every person convicted of violating the regulations as prescribed
herein shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)
   (E)   Any person violating §
150.27 of this code shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1)
(Ord. 136, passed 6-9-1992; Ord. 00-05A, passed 7-18-2000; Ord. 00-07, passed
8-15-2000; Ord. 11-12, passed 10-4-2011)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Historic Buildings and Site Register
   
151.02   County design and construction standards adopted
   
151.03   Agriculture protection areas
   
151.04   Premises identification
   
151.05   Building and Safety Codes
Mining Operations
   
151.20   Purpose
   
151.21   “Excavation” defined
   
151.22   Enforcement
   
151.23   Districts established
   
151.24   Distance to Residential Zones
   
151.25   Operational requirement and restrictions
   
151.26   Rehabilitation
   
151.27   Exceptions
   
151.28   Existing operations
Impact Fees
   
151.40   Purpose
   
151.41   Definitions
   
151.42   Written impact fee analysis
   
151.43   Impact Fee Facilities Plan
   
151.44   Impact fee calculations
   
151.45   Impact fee schedules
   
151.46   Fee exceptions and adjustments
   
151.47   Appeal procedure
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITE REGISTER.
   (A)   Purpose. 
      (1)   The county’s Historical Society and Preservation Commission
recognizes that the historical heritage of the county is among its most valued
and important assets. It is therefore the intent of the Society and Commission
to establish a county register of historic buildings and sites.
      (2)   The purpose of the register is to identify and acknowledge historic
buildings and sites lying within the boundaries of the county.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
   (B)   Criteria for designation to register. Any building, structure, site or
object may be designated to the historic building and site register if it meets
the criteria outlined below.
      (1)   Location within county. It is located within the official
boundaries of the county.
      (2)   Age. It is at least 50 years old.
      (3)   Historic integrity retained; waiver. It retains its historic
integrity, in that there are no major alterations or additions that have
obscured or destroyed the significant historic features.
         (a)   Major alterations that would destroy the historic integrity
include, but are not limited to, changes in pitch of the main roof, enlargement
or enclosure of windows on the principal facades, addition of upper stories or
the removal of original upper stories, covering the exterior walls with non-
historic materials, moving the resources from its original location to one that
is dissimilar to the original and additions which significantly detract from or
obscure the original form and appearance of the building when viewed from the
public way.
         (b)   Any building, structure, site or object that does not meet the
integrity requirements for listing on the historic buildings and sites register
may, however, be listed after it is reviewed by both the Preservation
Commission and County Commission if it is determined to be exceptionally
significant and meets any of the following:
            1.   It is directly associated with events that have made a
significant contribution to the history of the county;
            2.   It is directly associated with the lives of persons
significant in the history of the county; or
            3.   It is constructed of a distinctive material indigenous to the
county.
      (4)   Documented according to standards. It has been documented according
to the state historic preservation office standards for intensive level
surveys. The Preservation Commission may waive the requirement of a
reconnaissance survey as part of the intensive level survey.
      (5)   Submission of survey, application. The intensive survey information
along with an application form must be submitted to the Preservation Commission
for its evaluation and approval for listing on the register.
      (6)   Owner approval. The owner of the building must approve the
nomination to the historic register. A written statement to this effect must be
submitted to the Preservation Commission, along with the nomination
application.
      (7)   No limitations or restrictions; exception. There shall be no
limitations or restrictions for those sites, objects, structures or buildings
listed on the historic building and sites register. However, if major
alterations or other changes are made after the listing, the Preservation
Commission can reevaluate the property and remove it from the register.
      (8)   Notification of major alterations. After a property is included on
the register, the Preservation Commission requests that if it is to receive
major alterations or be demolished, that the Preservation Commission be
notified and given one week to further document the property.
      (9)   Certificate awarded. Once a nominee is approved to be listed on the
register, a certificate will be awarded to the owner of the nominee.
      (10)   Historic markers. The owner can, at his or her own expense,
purchase an approved historic marker to be placed on the nominee for public
view.
      (11)   Copy of register. A copy of the historic register will be kept at
the office of the Historical Society and Preservation Commission for review by
the public.
      (12)   Records maintained. The application and all other related
documents will be kept on file at the office of the Preservation Commission.
This information will be available to the public.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
   (C)   Designation procedures.
      (1)   Nomination; required documents. Any individual, group or government
agency may nominate and submit the required documents to the Preservation
Commission for its consideration. The required documents include a completed
nomination form, a completed intensive level survey and written consent from
the owner or the nominee to be placed on the register.
      (2)   Review by Preservation Commission. The Preservation Commission will
review and consider properly submitted nominations at its next scheduled
meeting. The nomination will be included as part of the agenda. One week in
advance, the Preservation Commission will notify the nominating party of the
date, time and place of the meeting when the nomination will be considered.
      (3)   Action by Preservation Commission. The Preservation Commission will
review the documentation for completeness, accuracy and compliance with the
criteria for designation to the historic buildings and sites register. The
Preservation Commission can either approve the nomination, deny the nomination
or table it for further study and consideration.
      (4)   Recommendation for approval.
         (a)   If the nomination is approved, a letter of recommendation will
be sent to the County Commission for its consideration and approval for listing
the nominee on the historic register. It will be appointed the earliest
available time on the County Commission’s meeting agenda. The nominating party
will be notified of this meeting date and time.
         (b)   After review by the County Commission, the nomination will
either be approved and returned to the Preservation Commission for listing on
the local register or denied for noncompliance to the criteria for designation
to the historic buildings and sites register. Written notification will be sent
to the nominating party.
      (5)   Denial of nomination. If the Preservation Commission denied the
nomination to the register, a written notification will be sent to the
nominating party with an explanation as to its decision.
      (6)   Decision tabled. If the Preservation Commission tabled the
nomination for further study, written notice will be sent to the nominating
party. It will be reconsidered at the next scheduled meeting of the
Preservation Commission, and the nominating party will be notified of the date,
time and place.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
(Ord. 134, passed 3-9-1992)
§ 151.02 COUNTY DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   Construction projects within the public rights-of-way and within
subdivisions, both public and private, shall be constructed in accordance with
the design and construction standards adopted by resolution of the County
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1) (Ord. 11-02, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 151.03 AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS.
   (A)   Advisory Board.
      (1)   Established. An Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board is
hereby established for the county, pursuant to UCA § 17-41-201, to perform the
duties set out in UCA § 17-41-201, or any later amendment or enactment of that
section.
      (2)   Appointment of Board members. The County Commission shall appoint
five members to the Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board established
under UCA § 17-41-201.
      (3)   Term in office, removal of members. Each member appointed to the
Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board shall serve on said Board until
expiration of that member’s respective term on the Soil Conservation District
Board of Supervisors or for a term as established at the time of appointment.
The County Commission may remove and replace any Advisory Board member for
cause or for failure to perform the required duties.
      (4)   Officers. The members of the Agriculture Protection Area Advisory
Board shall select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. The Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson shall be selected from among the members of the Agriculture
Protection Area Advisory Board. A selection of a county employee to serve as
Secretary must be approved by the County Commission.
      (5)   Quorum and rules of operation. Any three members of the Agriculture
Protection Area Advisory Board shall constitute a quorum of that Board. All
actions of the Board must be made in a meeting at which a quorum is present.
Any actions of the Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board must be approved
by at least three members of that Board. All meetings shall be conducted in
accordance with the state’s Open and Public Meetings Act, as set forth in UCA
§§ 52-4-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
   (B)   Minimum size for agriculture protection areas. Pursuant to UCA § 17-
41-301(5), or any later amendment or enactment of that section, the minimum
acreage (five acres) required for greenbelt must be included in each
agriculture protection area established within the county.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2)
   (C)   Fees for accepting and processing proposals. Any person filing a
proposal to create an agriculture protection area, pursuant to UCA § 17-41,
shall pay a fee at the time of filing. The amount of the fee shall be
established by resolution of the County Commission. In addition, any person or
persons filing a proposal for creation of an agriculture protection area shall
reimburse the county for all publication costs incurred by the county in
publishing the notices required under UCA § 17-41, or any subsequent amendment
or enactment of that statute.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3)
   (D)   Filing procedure. All proposals to create agriculture protection areas
within the county shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk. All
proposals must be accompanied by the filing fee established by the County
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4)
(Ord. 02-01, passed 4-2-2002)
§ 151.04 PREMISES IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   All premises shall have permanent address numbers that are plainly visible
and legible from the street or roadway fronting the property. The numbers shall
be a minimum of three inches in height, a stroke of minimum one-half inch, and
be of contrasting color to their background.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1) (Ord. 03-18, passed 12-16-2003)
§ 151.05 BUILDING AND SAFETY CODES.
   (A)   Adoption of codes. As authorized in UCA § 17-53-208, as amended, the
provisions of the following codes are hereby adopted verbatim (except as
amended in divisions (B) and (C) below) and by this reference made part of this
section to the same extent and effect as though said codes were copied in full.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-1)
   (B)   Codes adopted. The following codes, documents and amendments
designated in (B)(1) through (B)(9) below, including the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms, are hereby adopted as the Building Code of
the county, for regulating the addition, construction, enlargement, alteration,
repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy, use, height, area
and maintenance of all buildings or structures in the county; providing for
issuance of permits and collection of the corresponding permit fees, and by
reference are made a part of this section to the same extent and effect as
though said code were set forth herein as full.
      (1)   International Building Code, 2018 edition, appendix J, including
Chapter 1, Administration, as amended by the state;
      (2)   International Residential Code, 2015 edition, including Chapter 1,
Administration, as amended by the state;
      (3)   International Plumbing Code, 2018 edition, including Chapter 1,
Administration, as amended by the state;
      (4)   International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, including Chapter 1,
Administration, as amended by the state;
      (5)   International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition, including Chapter 1,
Administration, as amended by the state;
      (6)   International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 edition, including
Chapter 1, Administration, as amended by the state;
      (7)   National Electrical Code, 2017 edition, including annex H,
Administration and Enforcement, as amended by the state;
      (8)   Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1997
edition, published by the International Conference of Building Officials, as
amended by the state; and
      (9)   Any amendments to the codes listed in divisions (B)(1) through (B)
(8) above as required by the state code and state administrative code.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-2)
   (C)   Code construed in light of state statutes.
      (1)   The Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings shall be
construed so as to give effect to the statutes of the state which authorize
counties to abate dangerous buildings and shall not be construed as to require
the county to follow a more restrictive procedure than set forth in state
statute.
      (2)   The county may attach the costs of abating a dangerous building
pursuant to this code to the property taxes as provided by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-3)
   (D)   Adoption of appendices and tables. The provisions of the following
appendices are hereby adopted and by this reference made part of this section
to the same extent and effect as though said provisions were copied in full:
      (1)   Appendix E, Manufactured Housing Used as Dwellings, International
Residential Code, 2015 edition, as amended by the state; and
      (2)   Appendix Q, Tiny Houses, International Residential Code, 2018
edition, as amended by the state.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-4)
   (E)   Expiration. Every permit issued by the Building Official under the
provisions of the codes adopted by this section shall become invalid as per the
expiration statement of each code.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-5)
   (F)   Copies on file. Two copies of each code adopted in divisions (A) and
(B) above are ordered to be filed in the office of the County Building Official
for the use and examination by the public.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-6)
   (G)   Occupancy violations. Whenever any building, structure or equipment
therein regulated by the adopted codes is being used contrary to the provisions
of these codes, including occupancy or use prior to final approved inspection,
the Building Official shall file a notice of noncompliance with the County
Recorder identifying the property and setting forth the fact that the building,
structure or work is in violation of county codes.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-8)
   (H)   Release of notice of noncompliance. When the illegal use, occupancy or
work is corrected, the Building Official shall provide to the property owner of
record a release of notice of noncompliance certifying that the notice of
noncompliance has been released and rescinded, to be filed with the County
Recorder. This shall be done at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-9)
   (I)   Repeal of obsolete code. Any ordinance sections or parts of ordinances
previously adopted by the County Commission, which are in conflict with the
provisions of this section, are hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-10)
   (J)   Utility connections.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any utility company to provide service to any
structure or building, or to service equipment or wiring for which a permit is
required, until approval is granted by the Building Official.
      (2)   The Building Official may order utility services terminated at any
location where the use is not authorized or is in violation of the building,
zoning or other ordinances of the county.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-12)
   (K)   Appeals.
      (1)   (a)   There is hereby created a Building Code Board of Appeals of
the county to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations
made by the Building Official relative to the application and interpretation of
the adopted codes under this section.
         (b)   The members of the Board shall be appointed by the County
Commission and shall serve until replaced or a resignation is accepted.
         (c)   The Board shall consist of three members who are qualified by
training and experience to pass on matters pertaining to building construction
and are not employees of the county. There must be a minimum of two members to
form a quorum.
      (2)   (a)   An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the
true intent of the adopted codes of the county or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of the codes do
not fully apply, or an alternate design, material or method of construction is
equivalent of that prescribed in the adopted codes of the county.
         (b)   The Board shall have no authority to waive requirements of the
codes. An appeal shall be made in writing on forms provided by the county’s
Building Official and shall be submitted to the county’s Building Official who
will certify the date of filing of the appeal and shall transmit any appeal
received to the members of the Board.
      (3)   Appeals shall be filed no later than 45 days from the date of the
decision appealed; otherwise, the subject decision shall be final and shall not
be appealed thereafter. The decision of the Building Code Board of Appeals
shall be final unless a petition for relief therefrom is filed within 30 days
of the date of such decision with a court of record having competent
jurisdiction.
      (4)   The Building Official shall provide all information pertaining to
the appeal to the Board and shall provide a Secretary to take minutes of the
appeal proceedings and provide a written copy of the decision to the applicant,
Building Official and each member of the Board. The Board shall adopt rules of
procedure for conducting its business.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-13)
   (L)   Fees. Fees associated with this section are found in the most recently
adopted county’s Government Fee Schedule, adopted by ordinance or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-14)
(Ord. 10-10, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 12-08, passed 8-21-2012; Ord. 18-02, passed
2-6-2018; Ord. 20-16, passed 4-7-2020) Penalty, see 151.99
MINING OPERATIONS
§ 151.20 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and object of this subchapter to establish reasonable and
uniform limitations, safeguards and controls on excavations within certain
designated areas of the county as herein described and established as
excavation districts, and to ensure that excavation operations shall be
rehabilitated to a condition of practical usefulness and reasonable physical
attractiveness. These provisions are deemed necessary in the public interest to
effect practices which will provide protection of the tax base, provide for the
economical use of vital materials necessary for the economy and give due
consideration to the present and future use of land, in the interest of
promoting the public health, comfort, safety and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 50, passed 7-6-1970) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 “EXCAVATION” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, EXCAVATION shall mean the removal of
clay, soil, granite, flagstone, slate, shale, limestone, sandstone, sand or
gravel from the earth by excavating, stripping, leveling or any other process,
together with all other types of mining operations where material is removed
from the earth.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 50, passed 7-6-1970)
§ 151.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Building Inspector. The Building Inspector, appointed by the County
Commission, is hereby designated and authorized as the officer charged with the
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Powers and duties. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to
inspect or cause to be inspected all excavations at regular intervals, or as
often as necessary. Where it is determined by the Building Inspector that
excavation is proceeding not in compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter, he or she shall enforce the provisions, and in performance of this
duty may enter actions in the courts where necessary, and his or her failure to
do so shall not legalize any violations of such provisions.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) (Ord. 50, passed 7-6-1970)
§ 151.23 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Specified. The following excavation districts are hereby established
in the unincorporated area of the county: All of Forestry Zone F-1; all of
Agricultural Zone A-2; and all of Manufacturing Zone M-2, as shown on the
zoning map of the county and as designated in
Chapter 155 of this code.
   (B)   New districts or enlargement of existing districts. Whenever public
necessity, convenience or general welfare require, the County Commission may,
pursuant to law and required procedures, establish new excavation districts or
enlarge the boundaries of the excavation district now created or hereafter
established.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 50, passed 7-6-1970)
§ 151.24 DISTANCE TO RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   Subject to modifications outlined in §
151.27(E) of this code, no part of an excavation operation or accessory access
road, parking area, office building or the crushing, screening, washing, mixing
or other type of processing operation, shall be permitted closer than 200 feet
to a Residential Zone boundary, or within 50 feet of a public highway right-of-
way, except for accessory access roads. For the purposes of this subchapter,
the Agricultural Zone A-1, Residential-Agricultural Zone RA-1, Residential-
Agricultural Zone RA-2, Residential Zone R-1, Residential Zone R-M and Mobile
Home Courts Zone M-H, as designated in
Chapter 155 of this code, shall be considered Residential Zones.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) (Ord. 50, passed 7-6-1970)
§ 151.25 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   All excavation operations conducted or carried on in established excavation
districts are subject to the following limitations, restrictions and controls.
   (A)   Dust, noise, vibration, smoke, lights and odors. All equipment and
machinery used on the site of an excavation operation shall be constructed,
maintained and operated in such a manner as to reduce dust, noise, vibration,
smoke, welding lights and odors to a minimum. Access and haulage roads on the
site shall be maintained in a dust-free condition by surfacing or other
treatment.
   (B)   Fencing or barriers. Fencing or other suitable barriers shall be
created and maintained on the excavation site or on portions of the site where
such fencing is practicable and necessary because of dangerous conditions
created by the excavation.
   (C)   Related manufacturing operations. The manufacture of concrete building
blocks or other similar blocks, the production or manufacture of lime products,
the production of ready-mixed concrete, the production of asphalt mixes and any
similar production or manufacturing processes which might be related to the
excavation operation shall not be permitted, except as otherwise provided in
Chapter 155 of this code.
   (D)   Washing. The washing of sand and gravel shall be done so as to prevent
the discharge of wastewater directly into adjacent natural watercourses or onto
any public or private roads or any private property without the consent of the
owner.
   (E)   Hours of operation. Excavation operations shall not begin before 7:00
a.m. and shall not continue after the hour of 6:00 p.m., and no operation shall
take place on Sundays or legal holidays. During periods of national or unusual
emergency, time and hours of operation may be altered at the discretion of the
County Commission.
   (F)   Excavation and backfilling.
      (1)   Where backfilling is required, the excavation shall be graded or
backfilled with non-noxious, nonflammable, noncombustible solids. The materials
used or the method of fill shall be such as to not create a health hazard, nor
be objectionable because of odor or unsightliness.
      (2)   The graded or backfilled area shall not collect or permit stagnant
water to remain thereon.
      (3)   The peaks and depressions of the excavation area shall be reduced
to a surface which will result in level or gently sloping topography in
substantial conformity with land areas immediately surrounding and which will
minimize erosion due to rainfall.
      (4)   In any rehabilitation procedure which takes place in sand and
gravel pits, or on other sites where the material is of loose or friable
nature, no slope shall be left which is steeper than a ratio of one and one-
half horizontal to one vertical. In no case shall any slope exceed the normal
angle of repose of the material involved.
   (G)   Cessation of operation; condition of premises. Within one year after
the cessation of the operation, all temporary structures (except fences),
equipment, rock piles, rubble heaps or other debris shall be removed or
backfilled into the excavation so as to leave the premises in a neat and
orderly condition.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) (Ord. 50, passed 7-6-1970)
§ 151.26 REHABILITATION.
   In order to ensure that an area of excavation operation shall be
rehabilitated, the owner or operator shall, prior to the commencement of
excavation, submit to the Building Inspector three copies of a plan for such
rehabilitation in the form of the following:
   (A)   Operations. A description of all phases of the contemplated operation
and the specific mention of type of machinery and equipment which will be or
might be necessary to carry on the operation. Where the operation is to include
the washing of sand and gravel, the estimated daily quantity of water to be
required, its source and disposition shall be made a part of this description;
   (B)   Legal description. A legal description of the proposed site with a map
showing its location with indications of private access roads, existing or
proposed, and of public highways adjacent to the site which will be affected by
the operation;
   (C)   Topographic map. A topographic map of the area at a minimum contour
intervals of five feet extending beyond the site to the nearest public street
or highway, or to a minimum distance of 300 feet on all sides;
   (D)   Physical plan. A physical rehabilitation plan showing the proposed
contours after rehabilitation and other special features of rehabilitation, and
the method by which such rehabilitation is to be accomplished;
   (E)   Bond required.
      (1)   An initial bond written by a licensed surety company in the state,
or a cashier’s check made out in favor of the county in the amount of $5,000 to
ensure the performance of the rehabilitation agreement. Upon an adequate and
thorough investigation of the proposed operation by the Building Inspector, he
or she will recommend in writing to the County Commission that said $5,000 bond
is sufficient to ensure compliance with rehabilitation requirements or will
recommend a higher amount necessary to ensure compliance. Upon receipt of his
or her recommendations, the County Commission will determine whether or not the
bond or check posted is sufficient. In the event that a larger bond is
required, a bond written by a licensed surety company in the state or a
cashier’s check made out in favor of the county must be posted by the applicant
prior to his or her commencement of operations, for such additional amount.
      (2)   In the event of applicant’s failure to fulfill this agreement, such
bond or check shall be subject to forfeiture as follows:
         (a)   In the event of failure, the applicant shall be given ten days’
notice of a forfeiture hearing; and
         (b)   In the event the applicant, at such hearing, is not able to show
cause why the forfeiture should not occur, the bonding company or principal
shall pay to the county the amount of the bond, or the check shall be
forfeited, or, in either event, the lesser amount as necessary to complete said
rehabilitation.
   (F)   Proceed upon termination of operation. Rehabilitation shall proceed,
as soon as practicable, after termination of the excavation operations.
However, the owner or operator may, at his or her option, submit a plan for
progressive rehabilitation as the excavation operation is carried on. The
required bond in such case may cover progressive stages of the rehabilitation
for periods of not less than two years;
   (G)   Modification of plan. At any stage during the rehabilitation, the plan
may be modified by submission and approval of an amended rehabilitation plan as
required in the original application; and
   (H)   Referral to Planning Commission. Three copies of the rehabilitation
plan and all data and information pertaining thereto shall be referred to the
Planning Commission by the Building Inspector within 15 days after receipt
thereof for report and recommendation. The Planning Commission will have 30
days in which to respond. If approved, the Planning Commission shall express
its written approval, with whatever conditions are attached, by returning one
copy of the rehabilitation plan signed by the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission, to the Building Inspector, and one copy to be delivered to the
owner or operator. If the plan is disapproved, the Planning Commission shall
indicate its disapproval in writing and reasons therefor by similarly signed
copies.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) (Ord. 50, passed 7-6-1970)
§ 151.27 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Sod removal. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the
removal of sod.
   (B)   Removal of topsoil. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply
to the removal of topsoil, providing the operation be not closer than ten feet
to any property line or to a depth in excess of 18 inches, or so as to
adversely affect the drainage of the area.
   (C)   Permitted hours of operation. The County Commission may, consistent
with the intent of these regulations, modify or eliminate the provisions
relative to permitted hours of operation in any excavation district.
   (D)   Reduction in required yards. Relating to existing operations, the
County Commission, consistent with the intent of these regulations, and where
the character of terrain, the ownership of land, the surrounding development or
where other special conditions would justify such modification, may permit a
reduction in the required yard as stipulated in §
151.24 of this code, so as to not impose unreasonable requirements; however, in
no case shall the required distances for any excavation or accessory structures
be less than 50 feet from a Residential Zone.
   (E)   Quantity of materials. Excavation of less than 1,000 cubic yards over
a period of six months from a single parcel of land as recorded in the office
of the County Recorder is not subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   Unusual conditions. In cases where unusual topographical or other
exceptional conditions exist, variations and exceptions from this subchapter
may be made by the County Commission after recommendation by the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8) (Ord. 50, passed 7-6-1970)
§ 151.28 EXISTING OPERATIONS.
   Within 90 days after the adoption date hereof, existing operations shall
comply with the provisions set forth in §§
151.24 and
151.25 of this code, and within one year after the adoption date hereof,
existing operations shall comply with the provisions set forth in §
151.26 of this code. However, in no case shall requirements be imposed which
are economically or engineeringly unreasonable in respect to conditions
resulting from operations prior to enactment of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9) (Ord. 50, passed 7-6-1970)
IMPACT FEES
§ 151.40 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes the county’s impact fee policies and procedures
and conforms to the requirements of the state’s Impact Fees Act, UCA §§ 11-36a-
1 et seq. (“the Act”). This subchapter supersedes any prior ordinances related
to transportation and parks impact fees within their respective service area
and provides a schedule of impact fees for differing types of land use
development, and sets forth direction for challenging, modifying and appealing
impact fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) (Ord. 17-28, passed 5-16-2017)
§ 151.41 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases that are defined in the Act shall have the same definition
in this subchapter. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ACT. The state’s Impact Fees Act, UCA Chapter 11-36a.
   COUNTY. Morgan County, a political subdivision of the state.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any construction or expansion of building, structure
or use, any change in use of building or structure or any change in the use of
land located within the service area that creates additional demand and need
for public facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. Any written authorization from the county that
authorizes the commencement of DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY.
   IMPACT FEE. A payment of money imposed upon development activity as a
condition of development approval to mitigate the impact of the development on
public infrastructure. IMPACT FEE includes development impact fees, but is not
a tax, a special assessment, a hookup fee, a building permit fee, a fee for
project improvements or other reasonable permit or application fees.
   IMPACT FEE ANALYSIS (IFA). The county’s written analysis required by UCA §
11-36a-303 of the Act. The IMPACT FEE ANALYSES are a part of exhibit A on file
in the county and incorporated into this subchapter by this reference.
   IMPACT FEE FACILITIES PLAN (IFFP). The county’s IMPACT FEE FACILITIES PLANS
required by § 11-36a-301 of the Act, which have been prepared in accordance
with the Act and are to be adopted by passage of this subchapter. The IMPACT
FEE FACILITIES PLANS are a part of exhibit A on file in the county and
incorporated into this subchapter by this reference.
   PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS. Includes but is not limited to site improvements and
facilities that are planned and designed to provide service for development
resulting from a development activity and are necessary for the use and
convenience of the occupants or users of said development activity. PROJECT
IMPROVEMENTS do not include “system improvements” as defined in this section.
   PROPORTIONATE SHARE. The cost of public facility improvements that is
roughly proportionate and reasonably related to the service demands and needs
of a development activity.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES. Transportation and parks infrastructure improvements of
the county for the service area.
   SERVICE AREA. A geographic area designated by the county based on sound
planning and engineering principles in which a defined set of the county’s
public facilities provides service. The SERVICE AREA for transportation and
parks includes all of the county.
   SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS. Both existing public facilities designed to provide
services within the service area and to future public facilities identified in
the IFFP that are intended to provide service to the service area. SYSTEM
IMPROVEMENTS do not include “project improvements” as defined in this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) (Ord. 17-28, passed 5-16-2017)
§ 151.42 WRITTEN IMPACT FEE ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Executive summary. A summary of the IFA designed to be understood by a
layperson (the “executive summary”) is included in exhibit A on file in the
county and demonstrates the need for impact fees to be assessed on development
activity. The executive summary has been available for public inspection at
least ten days prior to the adoption of this subchapter.
   (B)   Impact fee analysis. The county has commissioned the IFFPs and IFAs
which identify the impacts upon public facilities required by anticipated
development activity and the anticipated impacts on system improvements
required by anticipated development activity to maintain the established level
of service for each public facility, demonstrate how such anticipated impacts
are reasonably related to the anticipated development activity, estimate the
proportionate share of the costs of impacts on system improvements that are
reasonably related to the development activity and identify how the impact fees
are calculated. Copies of the IFFPs and IFAs, as presented in exhibit A on file
in the county, have been available for public inspection at least ten days
prior to the adoption of this subchapter.
   (C)   Proportionate share analysis. In connection with the IFFPs and IFAs,
the county has commissioned a proportionate share analysis which analyzes
whether or not the proportionate share of the costs of public facilities is
reasonably related to new development activity. The proportionate share
analysis identifies, as applicable:
      (1)   The costs of each existing public facility that has excess capacity
to serve the anticipated development resulting from new development activity;
      (2)   The cost of system improvements for each public facility;
      (3)   The manner of financing for each public facility (such as user
charges, special assessments, bonded indebtedness, general taxes or funded
grants) other than impact fees;
      (4)   The relative extent to which development activity will contribute
to financing the excess capacity of and system improvements for each existing
public facility by such means as user charges, special assessments or payment
from the proceeds of general taxes;
      (5)   The relative extent to which development activity will contribute
to the cost of existing public facilities and system improvements in the
future;
      (6)   The extent to which development activity is entitled to a credit
against the impact fees because the development activity will dedicate system
improvements or public facilities that will offset the demand for system
improvements, inside or outside the proposed development;
      (7)   Any extraordinary costs in servicing the newly developed
properties; and
      (8)   The time-price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts
paid at different times. A copy of the proportionate share analysis is included
in the IFAs, which is included in exhibit A on file in the county and has been
available for public inspection at least ten days prior to the adoption of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) (Ord. 17-28, passed 5-16-2017)
§ 151.43 IMPACT FEE FACILITIES PLAN.
   The IFFPs identify the existing levels of service, establish proposed levels
of service, identify excess capacity to accommodate future growth at the
proposed levels of service, identify demands placed upon existing public
facilities by new development activity at the proposed levels of service and
identify the means by which the county will meet those growth demands. The
county has chosen to use a planning horizon of six to ten years in preparing
the IFFPs to align its planning horizon with the provisions of the Impact Fee
Act. The county has considered all revenue sources to finance the impacts on
system improvements, including grants, bonds, interfund loans, impact fees and
anticipated dedication of system improvements. The county’s plan for financing
system improvements establishes that impact fees are necessary to maintain a
proposed level of service that complies with §§ 11-36a-302(1)(b) or 11-36a-302
(1)(c) of the Act. The IFFPs have been prepared based on reasonable growth
assumptions for the service area and analyze the general demand characteristics
of current and future users of the systems. Furthermore, the IFFPs identify the
impact on system improvements created by development activity and estimate the
proportionate share of the costs of impacts on system improvements that are
reasonably related to new development activity. Said IFFPs are included in
exhibit A on file in the county and are incorporated into this subchapter by
this reference.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4) (Ord. 17-28, passed 5-16-2017)
§ 151.44 IMPACT FEE CALCULATIONS.
   (A)   Enacting impact fees. The County Commission will, by this subchapter,
approve impact fees in accordance with the IFFPs and IFAs.
      (1)   Elements. In calculating the impact fees, the county has included
the construction costs, land acquisition costs, costs of improvements, fees for
planning, surveying and engineering services provided for and directly related
to the construction of system improvements, and outstanding or future debt
service charges if the county might use impact fees as a revenue stream to pay
principal and interest on bonds or other obligations to finance the cost of
system improvements.
      (2)   Notice and hearing. In conjunction with the approval of this
subchapter, the county held a public hearing on June 6, 2017, gave public
notice of the IFFPs, said hearing and the county’s intent to adopt this
subchapter at least ten days before the date of said hearing by posting notice
on the county’s website, publishing notice on the state’s public notice
website, made a copy of this subchapter, the IFFPs, the IFAs and the executive
summaries available to the public on the county’s website and at the county’s
offices, and placed copies of the IFFPs and executive summaries in the public
library within the county, all in conformity with the requirements of UCA §§
11-36a-502 and 17B-1-111. After the public hearing, the County Commission
adopted this subchapter as presented herein.
      (3)   Contents of the ordinance. The ordinance adopting or modifying an
impact fee contains such detail and elements as deemed appropriate by the
County Commission, including designation of the service area within which the
impact fee is to be calculated and imposed. This subchapter includes a schedule
of impact fees to be imposed.
      (4)   Adjustments. The standard impact fee may be adjusted at the time
the fee is assessed due to inflation and/or in response to unusual
circumstances, to fairly allocate costs associated with impacts created by a
development activity or project, or due to a request for a prompt and
individualized impact fee review for the development activity of the state or a
school district or charter school and an offset or credit for public facilities
for which an impact fee has been or will be collected. The standard impact fee
may also be adjusted to ensure that impact fees are imposed fairly for
development activities attributable to low-income housing or other development
activities with broad public purposes. The impact fee assessed to a particular
development may also be adjusted should the developer supply sufficient written
studies and data to the county showing a discrepancy between the fee being
assessed and the actual impact on the system.
      (5)   Previously incurred costs. To the extent that new growth and
development activity will be served by previously constructed improvements, the
impact fee may include public facility costs and outstanding bond costs related
to improvements previously incurred by the county. These costs may include all
projects included in the IFFPs which are under construction or completed but
have not been utilized to their capacity, as evidenced by outstanding debt
obligations. Any future debt obligations determined to be necessitated by
growth activity may also be included to offset the costs of future capital
projects.
   (B)   Developer credits. Development activity may be allowed a credit
against impact fees for any dedication of land for a system improvement, any
building and dedication of some or all of a system improvement, any dedication
of a public facility that the county and the developer agree will reduce the
need for a system improvement, or a dedication of land for, improvement to or
new construction of any system improvement by the developer if the facilities
are system improvements or are dedicated to the public and offset the need for
an identified system improvement.
   (C)   Impact fees accounting. The county will establish a separate interest-
bearing ledger account for each type of public facility for which an impact fee
is collected, deposit all impact fees in the appropriate ledger account, retain
the interest earned on each account in the ledger account, and otherwise
conform to the accounting requirements provided in the Impact Fees Act. Impact
fees collected prior to the effective date of this subchapter need not meet the
requirements of this section.
      (1)   Reporting. At the end of each fiscal year, the county shall prepare
a report pursuant to UCA § 11-36a-601.
      (2)   Impact fee expenditures. The county may expend impact fees pursuant
to UCA § 11-36a-602 only for system improvements that are identified in the
IFFPs and for the specific public facility type for which the fee was
collected.
      (3)   Time of expenditure. Impact fees collected pursuant to the
requirements of this subchapter are to be expended, dedicated or encumbered for
a permissible use within six years of the receipt of those funds by the county,
unless the county identifies in writing an extraordinary and compelling reason
why the fees should be held longer than six years and an absolute date by which
the fees will be expended. Impact fees will be expended on a first-in first-out
(“FIFO”) basis, with the first funds received deemed to be the first funds
expended.
   (D)   Refunds. The county shall refund any impact fees paid by a developer,
plus interest actually earned, when: The developer does not proceed with the
development activity and files a written request for a refund; the fees have
not been spent or encumbered within the “time of expenditure” as defined
herein; and no impact has resulted. An impact that would preclude a developer
from a refund from the county may include any impact reasonably identified by
the county, including, but not limited to, the county having sized facilities
and/or paid for, installed and/or caused the installation of facilities in
reliance upon the developer’s plans and representations even though that
capacity may, at some future time, be utilized by another development.
   (E)   Additional fees and costs. The impact fees authorized hereby are
separate from and in addition to user fees and other charges lawfully imposed
by the county and other fees and costs that may not be included as itemized
component parts of the impact fee schedule. In charging any such fees as a
condition of development approval, the county recognizes that the fees must be
a reasonable charge for the service provided.
   (F)   Fees effective at time of payment. Unless the county is otherwise
bound by a contractual requirement, the impact fee shall be determined from the
fee schedule in effect at the time of payment in accordance with the provisions
of §
151.45 of this code.
   (G)   Imposition of additional fee after development. Should any developer
undertake development activities such that the ultimate density or other impact
of the development activity is not revealed to the county either through
inadvertence, neglect, a change in plans or any other cause whatsoever, and/or
the impact fee is not initially charged against all units or the total density
within the development, the county shall be entitled to recover the total
impact fee pursuant to the IFFPs and IFAs from the developer or other
appropriate person covering the density for which an impact fee was not
previously paid.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5) (Ord. 17-28, passed 5-16-2017)
§ 151.45 IMPACT FEE SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Fee adoption. The county hereby adopts the following as the impact fee
schedule for impact fees in the service area:
 
Transportation Impact Fee Schedule
Land Use Category  Daily Trips Adjustment Adjusted Trips Impact Fee
Commercial (per                                          As set forth in
1,000 square feet) 42.7        50%        21.35          currently adopted fee
                                                         schedule
Residential (per                                         As set forth in
unit)              9.52        50%        4.76           currently adopted fee
                                                         schedule
 
Parks Impact Fee Schedule
Impact Fee Per Household (HH) Persons Per HH Impact Fee
Single-family                 3.38           As set forth in currently adopted
                                             fee schedule
Multi-family                  3.38           As set forth in currently adopted
                                             fee schedule
 
   (B)   Maximum supportable impact fees. The fee schedules included in the
IFFPs and IFAs indicates the maximum impact fee set forth in exhibit A on file
in the county which the county may impose on development within the defined
service area and is based upon general demand characteristics and potential
demand that can be created by each class of user. The county reserves the right
under the Impact Fees Act to assess an adjusted fee to respond to unusual
circumstances to ensure that fees are equitably assessed. Formulas that can be
used to calculate this adjusted fee are set forth in exhibit A on file in the
county.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6) (Ord. 17-28, passed 5-16-2017)
§ 151.46 FEE EXCEPTIONS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Waiver for public purpose. The County Commission may, on a project-by-
project basis, authorize exceptions or adjustments to the impact fees due from
development for those projects the County Commission determines to be of such
benefit to the community as a whole to justify the exception or adjustment.
Such projects may include facilities being funded by the state, school
districts, charter schools, low-income housing projects or facilities of a
temporary nature. The County Commission may elect to waive or adjust impact
fees in consideration of economic benefits to be received from the development
activity.
   (B)   Procedures. Applications for exceptions or adjustments are to be filed
in writing with the county at the time the applicant first requests the
extension of service to the applicant’s development or property.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7) (Ord. 17-28, passed 5-16-2017)
§ 151.47 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Subject to the time limitations as provided in UCA § 11-36a-702, any person
or entity that has paid an impact fee pursuant to this subchapter may challenge
the impact fee as provided in UCA §§ 11-36a-701 et seq., by filing:
   (A)   A written administrative appeal to the county, setting forth the name
of the person or entity challenging the impact fee or fees, the specific impact
fee or fees challenged, evidence that the impact fee or fees challenged have
been paid by the person or entity and alleged grounds for such challenge. A
written administrative appeal containing the information set forth herein and
filed with the County Recorder shall constitute the necessary document for
filing an administrative appeal as provided in UCA § 11-36a-703(2)(a). An
administrative appeal shall be considered and decided by the County Commission
within 30 days after the day on which the appeal is filed;
   (B)   A request for arbitration as provided in UCA § 11-36a-705; or
   (C)   An action in district court.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8) (Ord. 17-28, passed 5-16-2017)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any property owner or other person, firm, corporation, partnership or
entity violating any of the provisions of §
151.05 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor; it shall
be a separate offense for each and every day within which a violation of any
provision of this chapter is committed. Upon conviction, the violator shall be
punished as provided by §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-7)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision or provisions of §§
151.20 through
151.28 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject
to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10)
(Ord. 50, passed 7-6-1970; Ord. 10-10, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 20-16, passed 4-
7-2020)
CHAPTER 152: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of Fire Code
   
152.02   Establishment and duties of Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Conflicting ordinances
   
152.05   Residential fire sprinkler system requirement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the county, as provided in UCA § 15A-5-103,
for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to
life and property from fire or explosion occurring in the unincorporated area
of the county, that certain code known as the International Fire Code, latest
edition adopted by the Utah State Legislature, excluding all appendices except
for those appendices which are specifically adopted herein, as promulgated by
the International Fire Code Council, Inc., and adopted by the state’s Fire
Prevention Board, except as amended by the provisions listed in the Utah Admin.
Code, R710-9-1 et seq., and in the Utah Admin. Code, R710-9-6 et seq., save and
except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended by this
code, as authorized in UCA § 53-7-204(3), hereinafter referred to as the
International Fire Code. In the event of any conflict between the terms of the
International Fire Code and the terms of this chapter, the more strict will
control.
   (B)   The following appendices to the International Fire Code are hereby
adopted:
      (1)   Appendix B: Fire flow requirements for buildings;
      (2)   Appendix C: Fire hydrant locations and distribution;
      (3)   Appendix D: Fire apparatus access roads;
      (4)   Appendix E: Hazard categories;
      (5)   Appendix F: Hazard ranking;
      (6)   Appendix G: Cryogenic fluids, weight and volume equivalents; and
      (7)   Appendix I: Fire protection systems/noncompliant conditions.
   (C)   The International Fire Code is hereby adopted in book form as provided
in UCA § 17-53-208 and incorporated by such adoption as fully as if set out at
length herein, and shall be controlling within the limits of the unincorporated
area of the county.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-1) (Ord. 10-15, passed 10-19-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Bureau of Fire Prevention within the
county’s Fire District, which Bureau shall be managed by the County Fire Chief,
which shall operate as the Department of Fire Prevention when the function of
such Department is required by the International Fire Code. The International
Fire Code shall be enforced by the county’s Fire District and its officers as
hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   There shall be the position of Fire Marshal within the Bureau of Fire
Prevention, who shall serve as the “code official” or “Fire Chief,” when the
function of such officer is required by the International Fire Code, and shall
have the duties required in state law, the International Fire Code and other
ordinances of the county appertaining to his or her office or required by his
or her supervisors.
   (C)   In addition to the position of Fire Marshal, the Bureau of Fire
Prevention may include technical inspectors and other staff members, when
authorized by the County Commission, who work under the direction of the Fire
Marshal to assist him or her in completing his or her duties.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to, or as a part of, the duties specified in this
chapter, the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall carry out the duties required by
it in the contracts which the county has made with Morgan City and the Mountain
Green Fire District for fire protection throughout the county.
      (2)   The Bureau of Fire Prevention, in carrying out the enforcement of
the International Fire Code, may request and shall receive in so far as may be
necessary and practical, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of
the county, Morgan City and the Mountain Green Fire District.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-2) (Ord. 10-15, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 152.03 DEFINITION.
   Whenever the term CODE OFFICIAL is used in the International Fire Code, it
shall be held to mean the Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-3) (Ord. 10-15, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 152.04 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   Consistent with UCA § 53-7-106(2)(a), should the provisions of the
International Fire Code be deemed to be in conflict with the requirements of
another ordinance, the more restrictive regulation shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-5) (Ord. 10-15, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 152.05 RESIDENTIAL FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Fire sprinkler system requirements. Automatic fire sprinkler systems
are required to be installed in any new residential structure in Morgan County,
if any of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The structure:
         (a)   Is located in an wildland urban interface area as provided in
the Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code adopted as a construction code under the
State Construction Code; and
         (b)   Does not meet the requirements described in UCA § 65A-8- 203(4)
(a) and Utah Administrative Code, R652-122-1300, Minimum Standards for County
Wildland Fire Ordinance;
      (2)   The structure is in an area where a public water distribution
system with fire hydrants does not exist as required in Utah Administrative
Code, R309-550-5, Water Main Design;
      (3)   The only fire apparatus access road has a grade greater than 10%
for more than 500 continual feet;
      (4)   The total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls
of the dwelling unit exceeds 10,000 square feet; or
      (5)   The total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls
of the dwelling unit is double the average of the total floor area of all floor
levels of unsprinkled homes in the subdivision that are no larger than 10,000
square feet.
      (6)   Exception. A single-family dwelling does not require a fire
sprinkler system if the dwelling:
         (a)   Is located outside the wildland urban interface;
         (b)   Is built in a one-lot subdivision; and
         (c)   Has 50 feet of defensible space on all sides that limits the
propensity of fire spreading from the dwelling to another property.
      (7)   As a general rule, any residential structure that does not exceed
3,600 square feet of living space as defined in the International Residential
Code is not required to install an automatic fire sprinkler system unless the
authority having jurisdiction determines there is a substantial public health
or safety interest to require installation of the same.
   (B)   Fire sprinkler system permits.
      (1)   Prior to permit approval, the Morgan County Bureau of Fire
Prevention ("MCBFP") must receive and review all fire sprinkler system plans,
calculations, and other information pertaining to the fire suppression system
as well as the project's physical address, lot number, and building permit
number.
      (2)   Fire sprinkler system plans must specify an approximate location of
interior and exterior alarm notification appliance location in accordance with
any other applicable code and be approved by MCBFP official.
   (C)   Fire sprinkler system completion. At the completion of the project,
the fire sprinkler contractor must provide and/or verify that the following has
been completed:
      (1)   Hydraulic design information sign. Provide a hydraulic design
information sign for each design area on the riser to indicate the location of
the design area, the discharge densities over the design area, the required
flow and residual pressure demand at the base of riser and hose stream demand
included in addition to the sprinkler demand (NFPA 13-24.5);
      (2)   Electric horn and strobe. Verify that power has been provided to
the outside electric horn and strobe/interior alarms and that all are
operational and in an approved location.
      (3)   Pressure gauges. Provide pressure gauges such that a gauge is
located above and below the backflow prevention device and/or check valve on
anti-freeze system, to measure the supply and system pressures.
      (4)   Sprinkler systems equipped with booster pumps. All equipment
related to the operation of supplied booster pump must be labeled and
distinguishable to prevent system failure.
      (5)   Address for structure. Verify that the general contractor has
provided the correct address identification for the structure.
      (6)   Stock of spare sprinklers. Provide a supply of spare sprinklers in
accordance with applicable standard:
         6.1.1   NFPA 13 Section 6.2.9 - Stock of Sprinklers.
         6.1.2   NFPA 13R Section 11.19 Sprinklers.
         6.1.3   NFPA 13D - Not Applicable.
      (7)   System acceptance. Upon completion of divisions (C)(1) - (6), the
system shall be tested to verify system will operate as per design criteria
submitted by the fire sprinkler contractor to MCBFP. Tests shall be approved by
MCBFP.
(Ord. 24-05, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the
International Fire Code as adopted and amended herein or fails to comply
therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with any order made thereunder,
or who builds in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans
submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued
thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply
with an order as affirmed or modified by the Fire Code Board of Appeals or
qualified appeals officer or by a court of competent jurisdiction appealed to
therefrom, or who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this
chapter shall severally for each and every violation and noncompliance,
respectively, be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, punishable under the terms of
this section and §
10.99 of this code. Further, the imposition of one penalty for any violation
shall not excuse the violation nor permit it to continue; all such persons
shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a
reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the penalty in division (A) above shall not be held
to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-4) (Ord. 10-15, passed 10-19-2010)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas
   
153.08   Establishment of development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.25   Floodplain Administrator; designation; duties; responsibilities
   
153.26   Permit procedures
   
153.27   Appeals and variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   General standards
   
153.41   Specific standards
   
153.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.43   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   
153.44   Floodways
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature delegated the responsibility of local governmental
units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the
County Commission does ordain as follows.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by: High
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH or VO Zone on a community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% chance or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed
ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built, in the case of a building
in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in Zones V1-30, VE or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers)
or shear walls parallel to the floor of the water and adequately anchored so as
not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to
the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X and D, ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means
of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of Zones V1-30,
VE or V, ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building otherwise meeting the
definition of ELEVATED BUILDING, even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls met the standards of § 60.3(e)
(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as “existing structures.”
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Physical structural works for which funds have been
authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, Building Codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See definition of FLOOD or FLOODING.)
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq., includes substantial improvement and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage,”
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A VARIANCE,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3),
(e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program is presumed to
be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the county.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, The Flood
Insurance Study for Morgan County, dated April 19, 2010, with accompanying
flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary-floodway maps (FIRM and FBFM) and
any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part
of this chapter.
   (B)   The county automatically adopts effective FEMA flood insurance rate
maps and automatically adopts effective FEMA flood insurance studies.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter, or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DESIGNATION; DUTIES; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The county Zoning Administrator is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 (National Flood Insurance
Program regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1)
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development to ensure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is
required.
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency, which is the state’s NFP Coordinator, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (7)   Ensure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
153.07 of this code, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
§§
153.40 through
153.44 of this code.
      (9)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
      (10)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12, of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain development in
Zones A1-30, AE or AH, on the community’s FIRM which increases the water
surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that the
community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA
(conditional letter of map revision).
(Prior Code, 9-4-2)
(Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
153.41(B) of this code;
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
153.25(B)(1) of this code.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan for
that area.
(Prior Code, 9-4-3) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.27 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The appeal authority as established by the community shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The appeal authority shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal
authority may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the state’s Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
153.26(B) of this code have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the appeal authority may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (see § 153.04 of this code).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
153.07,
153.25 or
153.42 of this code, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) as
proposed in §
153.26(A) of this code, is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one
foot above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division (B). A record of such certification which includes the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over
the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites:
Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured home
park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within Zones A1-
30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
division (D)(2) above be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the
base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. 
      (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-
30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM:
         (a)   Are on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Are fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements of §
153.26 of this code, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in division (D)(2) above.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-2) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
153.02 through
153.04 of this code.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of §§
153.08 and
153.26 of this code and the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which are greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
153.07 or
153.25 of this code.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-3) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.43 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
153.07 of this code, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified);
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified); or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in §
153.26 of this code, are satisfied; and
   (D)   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-4) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
§ 153.44 FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
153.07 of this code, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply.
   (A)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12, of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the
adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood
elevations, provided that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM
and floodway revision through FEMA.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-5) (Ord. 10-08, passed 3-2-2010)
CHAPTER 154: AIRPORT
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Definitions
   
154.002   Compliance and power to enforce
   
154.003   Construction on airport; site development standards
Management
   
154.015   Methodology
   
154.016   Functions and activities of airport management
   
154.017   Authorities of airport management
Airport Advisory Board
   
154.030   Creation of Board
   
154.031   Eligibility for appointment
   
154.032   Powers and duties
   
154.033   Terms of office; vacancies; removal
   
154.034   Appointment of officers
   
154.035   Proceedings; rules for and record of
   
154.036   Meetings; schedule and public notice
   
154.037   Member’s ethics
General Airport Rules
   
154.050   Public use
   
154.051   Private or privileged access or egress
   
154.052   Exclusive land use
   
154.053   Compliance by user
   
154.054   Release from liability
   
154.055   Trespass and tampering
   
154.056   Preservation of facility
   
154.057   Damage to airport property
   
154.058   Ground vehicular activity
   
154.059   Pedestrian activities
   
154.060   Model aircraft activity
   
154.061   Interference with others
   
154.062   Compliance with state registration requirements
   
154.063   Special or unusual activities
Aircraft Operating Rules
   
154.075   Federal Aviation Regulations
   
154.076   Authority to inspect
   
154.077   Securing unattended aircraft
   
154.078   Operating weight restriction
   
154.079   Running engines in hangars
   
154.080   Night operations
   
154.081   Reporting of accident
   
154.082   Removal of wreckage
   
154.083   Parachuting (skydiving)
   
154.084   Ultralight operations
   
154.085   Traffic pattern
Fuel Servicing
   
154.100   General policy
   
154.101   Specific requirements
Fire Prevention and Hazardous or Toxic Materials Handling
   
154.115   General policy
   
154.116   Hazardous and toxic materials
   
154.117   Fire prevention; general
   
154.118   Application of flammable finishes
   
154.119   Welding and cutting
Commercial Activities
   
154.130   Authorization to establish/operate
   
154.131   Conditions of use
   
154.132   Exclusive rights
   
154.133   Standard requirements
Noncommercial Aeronautical Activity
   
154.145   Authority
   
154.146   Standard requirements
   
154.147   Specific rights and privileges
Lease Standards and Provisions
   
154.160   Leasing policy
   
154.161   Application procedure
   
154.162   Terms of lease
Rates and Charges
   
154.175   Land rental
   
154.176   Tie down fees
   
154.177   Fuel flowage fees
   
154.178   Commercial activities
   
154.179   Rate and charge adjustment
   
154.180   Billing procedures and late charges
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENT. A collision between aircraft, vehicles, persons, stationary
objects or other things which results in property damage, personal injury or
death or an entry into or emergence from a moving aircraft or vehicle by a
person which results in personal injury or death to such person or some other
person, or which results in property damage.
   AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity which involves, makes possible or is
required for the flight or ground operation of any aircraft, or which
contributes to or is required for the safety of such operations.
   AIRCRAFT. Any device that is used or intended to be used for flight.
   AIRCRAFT OPERATION. An aircraft arrival or departure from the airport.
   AIRCRAFT OWNER. A person or other legal entity to whom the aircraft is
registered, or a person who exercises the full benefits of ownership under a
lease agreement.
   AIRPORT. All areas comprising the County Airport that now exist, along with
all appurtenant facilities.
   AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD. The County Airport Advisory Board created by this
chapter and County Commission Resolution CR-05-08.
   AIRPORT LAYOUT PLAN (ALP). A graphic presentation, to scale, of existing and
proposed airport facilities, their location on the airport, and the pertinent
clearance and dimensional information required to show conformance with
applicable standards.
   AIRPORT MANAGEMENT. The individual or entity empowered with the authority
and charged with the responsibility for the orderly operation of the airport.
   AVIATION ACCIDENT. An accident of such nature as to fall under the purview
of 49 C.F.R. part 830.
   BUILDING CODE. The Building Code as adopted by the county.
   CERTIFICATED AIRCRAFT. An aircraft that has been issued a certificate of
airworthiness by the Federal Aviation Administration. Note: Such certification
is required of an experimental aircraft but is not required for an ultralight.
   COUNTY. Shall mean and have reference to Morgan County.
   COUNTY COMMISSION. The body of persons as have been duly elected to serve on
the County Commission.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Any activity involving “holding out to the public” and
that is conducted for personal or collective gain.
   COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. Any “aeronautical activity” that is
conducted as a “commercial activity,” both as defined herein. Examples would
include: Fixed base operator (FBO); air taxi and charter operation; pilot
training; aircraft rental; aerial photography and surveying; aerial application
of chemicals; aerial advertising; aircraft sales and service; aircraft parking
and storage; sale of aviation petroleum products; maintenance and repairs of
aircraft; and sale of aircraft parts. This term would include anyone performing
as a “specialized service operator” or “specialized aircraft services operator”
as defined herein.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FAR. Federal Aviation Regulations, being Title 14 of the Code of Federal
Regulations (C.F.R).
   FIRE CHIEF. The individual that discharges the duties of Chief for the
county; in this case, the city/county Fire Chief.
   FIXED BASE OPERATOR (FBO). Any person or entity who performs the basic
essential aviation related services such as: Aviation fuel and oil sales; ramp
parking and tie down; hangar storage; aircraft repair and parts sales; flight
training and the like.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid that has a flashpoint at or below 100°F.
   FLYING CLUB. An association, club or group, organized as a nonprofit
corporation under the laws of the state, or, an organized nonprofit
unincorporated association, club or group, jointly owning or leasing aircraft,
where payment is made to the group for the operating time of such aircraft.
   FUEL SERVICING EQUIPMENT. Vehicles and equipment used for fueling or
defueling aircraft or vehicles.
   FUELING OPERATIONS. The fueling of aircraft, equipment or vehicles.
   GENERAL AVIATION. All phases of aviation other than aircraft manufacturing,
military aviation and regulated air carrier operations.
   HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC MATERIALS. Substances that require special handling
under federal, state or local environmental safety and health regulations.
Includes petroleum products, pesticides, paints, explosives, flammables and
similar substances.
   MASTER PLAN. The plan, as currently approved by the County Commission that
indicates and defines the fashion in which further development of the airport
is projected to occur.
   NONCOMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. Essentially, any “aeronautical
activity” as defined herein, which is conducted as a private venture and not
for profit (e.g., the personal and individual operation of a personally owned,
leased or rental aircraft, keeping of a personally-owned aircraft hangar,
maintenance of a personally-owned aircraft, operation as a “flying club” as
herein defined).
   PARK. To leave an aircraft or vehicle unattended.
   PERSON. Shall mean and include a natural person, partnership, firm,
association, corporation or any other form of business entity.
   PROFESSIONAL SKILLS. Any skill obtained after special study, or the use of
which requires a license under FAA regulations or other federal, state or local
law.
   RAMP. Those paved areas of the airport normally used for aircraft parking.
   REGISTERED AIRCRAFT. An aircraft that is required to be, and is, registered
with the FAA. Does not include ultralights.
   REGISTERED, OPERABLE AIRCRAFT. An aircraft that is both registered with the
FAA and is in an airworthy condition such that it may be legally flown.
   RUN-UP. Ground operation of the engine to test function while the aircraft
is stationary.
   RUNWAY. The paved area designated for aircraft takeoff and landing.
   SPECIALIZED AIRCRAFT SERVICES OPERATOR. A person providing repair and/or
sale of aircraft radios, propellers, instruments or accessories, or performing
painting or upholstery, or other similar types of work and services.
   SPECIALIZED SERVICE OPERATOR. A person who provides only limited,
specialized aircraft services such as flight training, air taxi operations,
aircraft sales, aircraft and/or engine repair, aircraft rental or any other
aeronautical related service.
   TAXIWAY. An area of the airport designated for aircraft movement between the
ramp and runway areas.
   TENANT AIRCRAFT. Any certificated aircraft or ultralight vehicle that is
permanently based at the County Airport. This will include any aircraft
hangared or tied down at the airport for longer than 30 days, or that operates
from the airport more than 50% of the time.
   THRESHOLD. The beginning of that portion of the runway usable for landing.
   TIE DOWN AREA. Those areas on the airport equipped with ropes or chains with
which to secure unattended aircraft.
   TRAFFIC PATTERN. Those flight altitudes and directions of traffic flow
prescribed and published for aircraft arriving at or departing from the
airport.
   TRANSIENT AIRCRAFT. Any aircraft other than a tenant aircraft that is an
aircraft only temporarily located at the airport for maintenance, visiting,
landing practice, refueling or similar purposes.
   ULTRALIGHT VEHICLES (ULTRALIGHTS). Those aircraft that qualify, under FAR
part 103, as ULTRALIGHT VEHICLES, and as such, are not required to be
registered with the FAA, do not require a certificate of airworthiness nor need
to be maintained in accordance with FAA standards and do not require an FAA-
issued pilot’s license to operate.
   UNIFORM FIRE CODE (UFC). The nationally recognized code, developed and
published by the International Fire Code Institute, that has been adopted by
the state (see UCA Title 15A, Chapter 5) as the state’s Fire Code, to which
cities, counties, fire protection districts and the state will adhere in
safeguarding life and property from the hazards of fire and explosion.
   VEHICLE. A device other than an aircraft, in, upon or by which any person or
property is or may be propelled, moved, transported, hauled or drawn upon any
ground surface at the airport.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.002 COMPLIANCE AND POWER TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   Prohibitive nature of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any
person to do any act prohibited by this chapter, or to fail or refuse to do any
act required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-1)
   (B)   Right to enforce. The county shall maintain the right to charge and
prosecute under the terms of this chapter, or to take such other remedial
actions as are described under §
154.002 of this code, even in those cases wherein the Federal Aviation
Administration may be taking separate action against a violator.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-3)
   (C)   Removal of violators. In addition to, or in lieu of, the criminal
action sanctions outlined above, the county and its duly authorized agents
shall be empowered to impose the following control measures.
      (1)   Airport management may summarily remove or eject from the airport,
or through the aid of the County Sheriff’s Department, cause to be removed from
the airport, any person who, in violating a provision of this chapter, is
clearly creating a situation that seriously endangers themselves, others or
property. Such action will be followed by hearing of the matter before the
County Commission.
      (2)   Any person who demonstrates a pattern of frequent noncompliance
with the provisions of this chapter, even when such noncompliance may not
create the risk of personal injury or property damage, and who does not then
respond appropriately to counseling by airport management, shall be the subject
of a hearing before the County Commission.
      (3)   A hearing before the County Commission to address a situation
described in divisions (A) or (B) above shall be for the purposes of
determining whether that person should be denied future use of the County
Airport, and if so, for what duration of time. Any person who is the subject of
such hearing shall have the right and opportunity to introduce and explain any
mitigating circumstances, along with the right to have testimony by any
eyewitnesses heard. Should the subject of a hearing choose not to appear during
the hearing, the County Commission may act as fully as though the subject were
present.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-4)
   (D)   Grievance procedure. Any person who has cause to question the validity
of a decision of airport management or who may be aggrieved because of the
accusation of noncompliance with a provision of this chapter or who considers
that compliance with a particular provision(s) of this chapter would create a
severe hardship, may formally request a hearing on the matter before the County
Commission. Subsequent action will then proceed as follows.
      (1)   The County Commission shall hear any grievance within 30 days of
receiving written notice of complaint and shall provide written notification to
the complainant of the time/date of the hearing.
      (2)   The complainant shall be allowed to present all relevant evidence,
records and testimony at this hearing.
      (3)   The County Commission shall issue written findings of fact and a
decision within 15 working days of any hearing.
      (4)   Any aggrieved who is not content with a decision of the County
Commission may make appropriate appeal through the court system.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-5)
(Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.003 CONSTRUCTION ON AIRPORT; SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All construction upon the County Airport will be in accordance with the
county’s Land Use Management Code.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
MANAGEMENT
§ 154.015 METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   The governing body of the county may provide for management of the
County Airport in any manner of its choosing. Options available to the county
include (but are not limited to) the following: Management by an individual who
is either a full time or part time employee of the county; management by an
individual (or entity) under contract to the county; management on a nonpaid
basis by an individual (or entity) that has volunteered to discharge management
responsibilities on such a basis; or by leasing the airport to an individual
(or entity) with assignment of management responsibilities to that individual
or entity via the lease agreement.
   (B)   The governing body may, at its option (and within the constraints of
any then existing contract or lease agreement), elect to change airport
management methodology at any time.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.016 FUNCTIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF AIRPORT MANAGEMENT.
   Whatever airport management methodology as has been selected by the county,
the responsibilities of such management shall be established by the County
Commission in a detailed job description that clearly defines the functions and
duties of that individual or entity charged with airport management.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.017 AUTHORITIES OF AIRPORT MANAGEMENT.
   Airport management shall have full power and authority to implement and
carry out those policies and procedures adopted by the County Commission (and
encoded herein) for the orderly operation of the County Airport.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD
§ 154.030 CREATION OF BOARD.
   There is hereby created an advisory body within and for the county to be
known as the County Airport Advisory Board. The Board shall consist of eight
members, one of whom shall always be a member of the County Commission and a
nonvoting member. All other members shall be appointed by the County Commission
(along with terms of appointment) from among the qualified residents of the
county. Three members of the Board shall always be qualified and currently
flying pilots who are regular users of the County Airport. Four will be non-
pilots or non-regular users of the County Airport. Should no qualified person
apply for a position (user or nonuser), the position may be filled by anyone.
Members shall be selected without respect to political affiliation and shall
serve without compensation, except for recovery of such reasonable expenses as
may be specifically authorized by the County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.031 ELIGIBILITY FOR APPOINTMENT.
   To be eligible for appointment to the Airport Advisory Board, a person
shall:
   (A)   Be not less than 21 years of age;
   (B)   Be a resident of the county; and
   (C)   Be representative of a cross-section of both aviation and community
interests.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.032 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The County Airport Advisory Board shall have the authority and duty to
advise and make recommendations to the County Commission on all matters having
to do with the County Airport and its various features and facilities,
including airport operation, management, regulation, master planning,
improvement construction and expansion and fiscal and economic impacts. To
better equip itself for the performance of this primary duty, the Board shall
familiarize itself with such county, state and federal regulatory and fiscal
materials as are relevant to these authorities and duties. The Board shall
track ongoing and newly projected activities and developments on and in the
vicinity of the airport for compliance with the provisions of the approved
airport master plan and shall call observed or forecast deviations to the
attention of the County Commission in a timely fashion. The Board will assume
other duties and discharge other responsibilities as may, from time to time, be
specifically assigned by the County Commission. The Board shall also be
responsive to requests by airport management to investigate, deliberate on and
make specific recommendations to the County Commission on deserving matters or
issues that have come to airport management’s attention during discharge of
duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.033 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES; REMOVAL.
   The term of office for the County Commission member shall be as determined
by the Commission. The terms of the seven members appointed by the County
Commission shall be four-year terms, which shall be staggered every two years.
Vacancies occurring otherwise then through the expiration of term shall be
filled by appointment by the County Commission for the remaining portion of
such term, or for other duration. Any member may be summarily removed by a vote
of not less than five members of the County Commission with or without cause.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.034 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The Board shall select Board officers by a method of its own choosing.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-5) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.035 PROCEEDINGS; RULES FOR AND RECORD OF.
   (A)   All proceedings shall be conducted in compliance with this chapter and
in accord with such bylaws as the Board may itself adopt and amend from time to
time with approval of the County Commission. Such bylaws may never come in
conflict with this chapter, and the adoption or amendment of bylaws shall
always require the affirmative vote by a simple majority.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Board constitutes a quorum for all
business, except no Board action shall be valid unless it is approved by a
simple majority vote.
   (C)   All meetings of the Board shall be taped. Further, the Board shall
keep a permanent, written record of all proceedings, with a copy provided to
the County Clerk for filing as a public record.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-6) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.036 MEETINGS; SCHEDULE AND PUBLIC NOTICE.
   The County Airport Advisory Board shall conduct meetings not less than
quarterly throughout the year at times and places to be determined by the
Board. The Board may meet more frequently as circumstances warrant. In any
event, all Board meetings, whether regularly scheduled or special, shall be
public meetings and shall be properly noticed by local posting and appearance
in the local media.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-7) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.037 MEMBERS’ ETHICS.
   Members of the County Airport Advisory Board shall be subject to and bound
by the provisions of the Utah Public Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act, UCA
§§ 67-16-1 et seq., as amended, the county’s policies and procedures, as
amended, including County Commission Resolution CR-04-10, establishing a code
of ethics.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-8) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
GENERAL AIRPORT RULES
§ 154.050 PUBLIC USE.
   The County Airport shall be open to the public for all such general aviation
related activities and operations as can be (and are) conducted in full
compliance with appropriate parts of the Federal Aviation Regulations, the
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances of the county and laws of
the state applicable to public places.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.051 PRIVATE OR PRIVILEGED ACCESS OR EGRESS.
   No person except those with Commission approved through the fence agreements
shall be granted private or privileged access or egress to and from or across
the airport.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.052 EXCLUSIVE LAND USE.
   No person shall be permitted the exclusive use of any land within the
confines of the County Airport, except upon the execution of an appropriate
lease agreement with the county in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.160 through
154.162 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-3) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.053 COMPLIANCE BY USER.
   The use of the County Airport or its facilities in any manner shall create
the obligation and the implied consent of the user to comply with all the
regulatory material contained or cited herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-4) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.054 RELEASE FROM LIABILITY.
   Use of the County Airport and its facilities is conditioned upon the
assumption of full responsibility and risk by the user thereof and such users
shall hold harmless and indemnify the county, its officers and employees from
any liability or loss resulting from such use as well as claims of third
persons as against those of the person so using the airport. No user of the
airport will attempt to hold the county or its agents responsible for any
damage to or theft of any aircraft, vehicle, tool or other piece of equipment
parked or used on the County Airport. The exercise of the privilege of use
shall constitute acknowledgment that the county operates and maintains said
airport in a governmental capacity.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-5) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.055 TRESPASS AND TAMPERING.
   No person may:
   (A)   Enter upon any airport property or go within any public building on
airport property except for purposes that are lawful, right and just, nor shall
any person enter or remain within any private building on the County Airport
without the prior approval and permission of the owner of that building; or
   (B)   Interfere or tamper with, or without prior and proper authorization
from the owner, or that person having custody of and responsibility for an
aircraft, vehicle or piece of equipment, climb upon, enter or operate any
aircraft, vehicle or piece of airport maintenance equipment. Nor shall any
person commit any act that would endanger any aircraft operating at the
airport.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-6) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.056 PRESERVATION OF FACILITY.
   Unless otherwise provided, no person may:
   (A)   Destroy, damage or disturb in any way any structure, sign, marker,
piece of equipment, fence, vegetation or any other public or private property
on the airport;
   (B)   Throw, drop or otherwise release or permit to be released upon the
airport premises any trash or other substances except in receptacles
specifically provided for such purposes;
   (C)   Abandon property of any sort on the airport. Airport management will
have authority to declare property abandoned, and to initiate disposal actions
in accordance with UCA §§ 67-4a-101 et seq.;
   (D)   Permit any animal to run unrestrained on the airport in general, and
on any ramp, taxiway or runway in particular. Nor shall any person ride
horseback or drive livestock on or through airport property; or
   (E)   Post, distribute or display signs, advertisements, circulars or other
printed matter outside of any building on the airport without first obtaining
permission from airport management.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-7) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.057 DAMAGE TO AIRPORT PROPERTY.
   Any person noting or causing damage to the airport or airport-related
property of the county shall report the circumstances and particulars to
airport management as expeditiously as possible. Any person causing or liable
for any damage to the airport or airport-related property of the county shall
be required to pay the county, upon demand, the full cost of repairs or to
reimburse the county for the full amount of such damage. If the county prevails
in any legal action to collect such damages, the county may also collect
reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-8) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.058 GROUND VEHICULAR ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Only bona fide emergency vehicles, airport maintenance vehicles and
vehicles belonging to aircraft owners and/or operators or hangar lessees may be
operated on the ramp, apron, taxiway or runway portion of the airport, with the
operation of ground vehicles on any taxiway or runway being further restricted
to those situations necessary to the response to an emergency situation or to
routine airport maintenance, to the positioning for launch or retrieval of a
glider or the positioning, launching or recovery of an ultralight. In all
cases, and most particularly when operating on the runway, the operator of such
vehicle will exercise extreme caution and will absolutely give way to any
aircraft that may be taking off, landing or taxiing. Ground vehicles shall also
always yield to pedestrians.
   (B)   No vehicle shall ever be parked unattended on the runway, nor shall
any vehicle ever be parked unattended on any portion of any taxiway, ramp or
apron such as to deny or restrict the free passage of any aircraft to or from
any hangar, tie down or parking spot or any other place on the airport to which
an aircraft could logically need access.
   (C)   No motor home, travel trailer, boat trailer, horse trailer, utility
trailer, automobile or any other type of powered or nonpowered vehicle (except
those trailers specifically designed and constructed to store/transport gliders
and ultralights) shall be permanently stored on the airport except within any
lessee’s private hangar. Glider trailers or ultralight trailers may only be
stored outside in those specific areas that have been designated by airport
management for such purposes.
   (D)   No bicycles, motorcycles or ATVs shall be operated on any portion of
any runway, taxiway, ramp or apron, except where such operation is conducted by
the owner/operator of any aircraft, or the lessee of any hangar, and then only
when in direct connection with such ownership/operation or lease.
   (E)   No person may operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 15 mph
on any apron or ramp, or at a speed greater than 25 mph on any access road, and
in any event, shall not operate in excess of any speed that may be posted. Nor
may any person operate any vehicle in a careless or reckless fashion.
   (F)   General vehicle parking on the airport will only be in those locations
designated for such purposes by airport management. Leaseholders may park in
areas immediately adjacent to their leased facilities when, in the opinion of
airport management such parking will not create any hazard or conflict with
mowing, snow removal or any other required airport operation or activity.
Airport management will have the authority to move, or to have moved, any
vehicle parked in an inappropriate location.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-9) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.059 PEDESTRIAN ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No person shall walk on any runway or taxiway except when necessary
for aircraft owner/operators to gain access to an aircraft, to glider and
ultralight pilots and ground crews when involved in the launch or retrieval of
such craft and to airport maintenance personnel and emergency services
personnel in the normal performance of their duties.
   (B)   On all areas of the airport, pedestrians shall always give way to any
aircraft.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-10) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.060 MODEL AIRCRAFT ACTIVITY.
   No person shall operate a model aircraft or other unpiloted flying device on
the County Airport.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-11) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.061 INTERFERENCE WITH OTHERS.
   No person shall conduct any activity on the airport of a type or nature that
would deny or unreasonably delay to any other legitimate user of airport
facilities or the free exercise of such use.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-12) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.062 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All airport users must comply with applicable state registration
requirements as outlined under UCA §§ 72-10-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-13) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.063 SPECIAL OR UNUSUAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No person shall conduct any activity on the County Airport that
interrupts or suspends normal airport operations or functions, without prior
written approval of the County Commission. Any person proposing such activity
shall initiate a request for approval through airport management not later than
60 days prior to the date such activity is proposed.
   (B)   Airport management will refer the matter, along with recommendations,
to the Airport Advisory Board, and that body, in turn, will consider and make
recommendation to the County Commission as to appropriateness, and as to the
necessity for activity-related liability insurance coverage of the type and in
the amount as may then be specified by the County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-14) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
AIRCRAFT OPERATING RULES
§ 154.075 FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS.
   The Federal Aviation Regulations (defined as FAR in §
154.001 above) are herewith adopted by reference and incorporated herein. It
shall be unlawful for any person operating on or from the County Airport to
fail to comply with any applicable federal aviation regulation, or with any
specific provision of this subchapter. Nothing in this subchapter will usurp a
pilot’s emergency authority as outlined in FAR part 91.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.076 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   Airport management and the law enforcement body of the county shall have the
authority to require any airport user to produce for inspection such pilot
credentials and aircraft documents as are required by the Federal Aviation
Regulations for the specific operation(s) in which engaged.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-2) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.077 SECURING UNATTENDED AIRCRAFT.
   No person shall leave an aircraft unattended unless it is within a hangar,
or if outside, is properly secured by wheel chocks or tie downs, as
appropriate. The aircraft owner shall be responsible for all damages caused by
failure to properly secure an unattended aircraft.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-3) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.078 OPERATING WEIGHT RESTRICTION.
   No person shall operate an aircraft of over 12,500 pounds gross weight at
the County Airport, except for good cause and after having obtained prior
approval for such from airport management.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-4) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.079 RUNNING ENGINES IN HANGARS.
   No person will start or run an aircraft engine in any hangar.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-5) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.080 NIGHT OPERATIONS.
   Night operations, as defined in FAR part 1, shall not be conducted at the
County Airport except in the case of in-flight emergencies, or where such
operations are sponsored by a recognized emergency service agency, and are then
overseen by the Sheriff’s Office.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-6) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.081 REPORTING OF ACCIDENT.
   Any person involved in an accident that causes damage to property or injury
to persons on the County Airport shall immediately report such accident to
airport management.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-7) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.082 REMOVAL OF WRECKAGE.
   Aircraft owners/operators or their agents shall be responsible for the
prompt removal from runways and taxiways, any aircraft disabled by accident or
other means. Should the owner/operator fail to comply with this requirement,
airport management may cause the aircraft to be removed and the owner/operator
to be billed for all costs incident to such removal.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-8) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.083 PARACHUTING (SKYDIVING).
   Parachuting activity over or onto the County Airport shall be conducted in
accordance with all relevant requirements of FAR part 105.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-9) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.084 ULTRALIGHT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Ultralight operations at the County Airport shall be conducted in
accordance with all relevant requirements of FAR part 103, except for such
deviations from that part as may have been authorized by an FAA issued grant of
exemption. Then, only those persons holding such grant of exemption, or
otherwise authorized to operate under the authorities of such grant, shall
exercise such privileges.
   (B)   Ultralight operations shall also conform to the following:
      (1)   Ultralights departing on runway 21 will turn crosswind prior to
overflight of the residential areas south of the airport;
      (2)   Ultralights shall climb to and maintain an altitude not greater
than 5,600 msl until a minimum of one-half mile from the airport boundary in
order to avoid the potential for inadvertent climb into the path of
conventional aircraft in the standard traffic pattern; and
      (3)   Ultralight operators will submit to any request by airport
management that they demonstrate (or otherwise verify) their flying
capabilities, as well as the mechanical integrity of their equipment.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-10) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.085 TRAFFIC PATTERN.
   The County Airport traffic pattern and rules for operating within that
pattern are herewith established as follows.
   (A)   The recommended traffic pattern for both runway three and runway 21
shall be left hand and shall be flown by airplanes (other than ultralights) at
an altitude of 1,000 feet above the published elevation of the airport.
   (B)   The County Airport is uncontrolled; therefore, pilots shall adhere to
the “see and be seen” concept. The “common traffic advisory frequency” (CTAF)
for radio equipped aircraft is 122.8 MHZ.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-11) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
FUEL SERVICING
§ 154.100 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Aircraft fuel servicing operations on the County Airport shall conform
to the provisions of Article 24 of the Uniform Fire Code (UFC), except for
those specific circumstances wherein the Fire Chief may have modified a
provision of Article 24, pursuant to that authority given to the Chief under
paragraph 103.1.3, UFC.
   (B)   Aircraft fuel servicing operations on the County Airport may only be
conducted by a person whose county-approved commercial aeronautical activities
specifically include commercial fuel sales, or by a private aircraft owner
fueling his or her own aircraft with his or her own personnel and equipment.
   (C)   No person may operate a commercial fuel servicing vehicle upon the
County Airport without first having secured from the Fire Chief that permit
specified under paragraph 105.8.a.2, UFC.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.101 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No fuel servicing will be conducted within any aircraft hangar or
other building, within 50 feet of any open flame (including smoking) or when
the engine of the aircraft to be serviced is running.
   (B)   Subject only to meeting the requirements of division (A) above, any
paved ramp or tie down area on the airport is acceptable as an aircraft
refueling area.
   (C)   Except for permitted storage within a building constructed for the
sole and exclusive use purpose of providing anti-tampering security protection,
no aircraft refueling unit will be stored inside of, nor less than 50 feet from
any other building, with any such outside storage location to be jointly
determined by airport management and the Fire Chief.
   (D)   All passengers must disembark from any aircraft prior to the fuel
servicing of that aircraft.
   (E)   Each fueler shall exercise care to prevent fuel spills. Should a spill
occur, fuel servicing will be stopped immediately, and will not resume until
the spill has been cleaned up, and the causative agent for the spill corrected.
Additionally, any fueler causing a spill will immediately notify airport
management of such. Each fueler shall clean up any spill that he or she has
caused. Should any fueler fail in this duty, airport management may cause such
cleanup, along with subsequent billing of the responsible party for the costs
of cleanup.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-2) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
FIRE PREVENTION AND HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS HANDLING
§ 154.115 GENERAL POLICY.
   Fire prevention and protection policies and procedures on the County Airport
shall conform to the provisions of Article 24 of the Uniform Fire Code (UFC)
and the Uniform Building Code (UBC).
(Prior Code, § 10-6-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.116 HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC MATERIALS.
   (A)   The storage, use, and handling of hazardous and toxic materials on and
from the County Airport shall be as prescribed in the UFC; as well as in a
manner consistent with other recognized and applicable standards as established
by state and/or federal law.
   (B)   No person shall store, use or dispose of hazardous or toxic materials
in any manner that will allow them to contaminate either the air or ground at
the airport.
   (C)   Used lubricating oil generated by any user on the airport may be
deposited in the approved collection tank maintained on the airport for that
purpose.
   (D)   With the single exception noted in division (C) above, each individual
tenant or other user of the County Airport shall be personally responsible for
removal from the airport, and for the proper disposal of any hazardous or toxic
waste generated as a consequence of any of that individual’s activities upon
the airport.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-2) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.117 FIRE PREVENTION; GENERAL.
   (A)   No person shall stock, store or use upon the County Airport any
material or equipment in such manner as to constitute a fire hazard.
   (B)   All building owners and lessees shall keep their building, hangar and/
or shop floors, and external areas immediately adjacent to such facilities,
free of flammable and combustible waste materials.
   (C)   The storage, use, dispensing, mixing and handling of flammable and
combustible liquids on the County Airport shall be in accordance with the UFC
and the UBC.
      (1)   No person shall store or use flammable and combustible liquids in
types and amounts exceeding those listed in the UFC, except upon having been
issued a permit from the Fire Chief for such exception.
      (2)   No person shall store flammable and combustible liquids on the
County Airport other than in the container types and sizes listed in the UFC.
Note: In general, any container that has been approved by the U.S. Department
of Transportation (DOT) for interstate shipping and handling of these materials
is also acceptable as a storage container on the airport.
      (3)   No class I-A liquid shall be used as a cleaning agent anywhere on
the County Airport. Only nonflammable liquids especially formulated for such
purposes (e.g., Stoddard solvent) may be used as cleaning agents upon the
airport.
      (4)   All building owners and lessees shall maintain at least one
portable fire extinguisher within such premises, which extinguisher shall have
a minimum rating of 10-B:C, in accordance with UFC standard 10-1.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-3) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.118 APPLICATION OF FLAMMABLE FINISHES.
   The application of flammable or combustible paint, lacquer, dope or other
flammable or combustible liquid applied as a sprayed finish by compressed air,
shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the UFC and the UBC.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-4) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.119 WELDING AND CUTTING.
   Welding and cutting operations, and the storage and use of compressed gases
employed therein, shall be performed in accordance with the UFC and the UBC.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-5) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES
§ 154.130 AUTHORIZATION TO ESTABLISH/OPERATE.
   No person shall conduct a commercial activity of any nature that is based on
or operated from the County Airport, unless conduct of that activity has been
approved by the County Commission. A business not directly involved in any form
of aeronautical activity may be allowed on the airport only if such business
would serve and support the airport and flying community (e.g., an airport
restaurant). This question will undergo review/recommendation by airport
management and the Airport Advisory Board, with ultimate decision-making
authority residing with the County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.131 CONDITIONS OF USE.
   Any commercial activity whether commercial aeronautical activity or other
will be subject to an appropriate conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-2) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.132 EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as granting an exclusive
business right of any nature to any person authorized to operate on or from the
County Airport.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-3) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.133 STANDARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person conducting any form of commercial activity on or from the
County Airport must be capable of meeting, and shall adhere to, the following
standards and requirements:
   (A)   Continued compliance with all relevant federal, state and county laws
and/or regulations and with any specific conditions or requirements identified
by the county at the time approval of the activity was granted;
   (B)   Maintenance of public liability insurance, of that type and amount
considered and approved by the County Commission. Such insurance will name the
county as an additional insured;
   (C)   An appropriate business license; and
   (D)   If paying a fee to the county on the basis of generated revenues,
maintenance of adequate (and reasonably available) records relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-4) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
NONCOMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY
§ 154.145 AUTHORITY.
   The County Airport being a public airport, no special authorization is
required of any person in order to engage in any noncommercial aeronautical
activity on or from the County Airport, except in those specific cases wherein
such requirement may be imposed by this subchapter, or may be found in some
other regulatory material (e.g., the FAR part 105 requirement that the
permission of airport management be sought prior to conducting any parachute
jump over or onto the airport).
(Prior Code, § 10-8-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.146 STANDARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person engaging in any form of noncommercial aviation activity on or
from the County Airport shall comply with all relevant federal, state and
county laws and/or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-2) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.147 SPECIFIC RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   No private aircraft owner shall be prohibited from performing, on his
or her own equipment, those specific preventative maintenance routines as are
outlined in Appendix A of FAR part 43, whether such performance is within a
privately-owned hangar, or on a ramp or tie down.
   (B)   Private hangar owners may maintain and/or store in their hangars such
nonaeronautical equipment as boats, travel/utility trailers, automobiles and
the like, provided such use of that hangar is only incidental and secondary to
its primary use as an aircraft maintenance and/or storage facility.
   (C)   Private hangar owners/occupants may store and use in their own hangars
all such manner of tools, equipment, parts and supplies as are normally
associated with the building, restoration or maintenance of aircraft. This
privilege is specifically extended to liquid consumables (such as engine oil
and paints), provided only that such storage or use involves reasonable
quantities thereof, that all relevant requirements of §§
154.115 through
154.119 of this code are met, and that such storage is for the personal use of
the hangar owner/occupant only.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-3) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
LEASE STANDARDS AND PROVISIONS
§ 154.160 LEASING POLICY.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted the exclusive use of any land on the
County Airport unless and until an appropriate, formal lease agreement between
that person and the county shall have been executed.
   (B)   Land lease agreements executed by the county will be of the following
three basic types:
      (1)   Lease of land for commercial activity;
      (2)   Lease of land for noncommercial aeronautical activity; and
      (3)   Lease for a tenant aircraft tie down.
   (C)   Both the County Clerk and airport management will maintain blank lease
agreement forms and will provide these as required. The county may change the
form and content of these standardized agreements as required.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.161 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Any person desiring to execute a land lease agreement with the county,
whether for land not yet under any lease, or for land underlying an existing
structure that has undergone an ownership change, shall make application for
same as described below.
   (A)   If related to commercial activities, the lease applicant shall obtain
a copy of the standard land lease agreement and shall complete all appropriate
sections of this agreement and submit it as part of the application package
described under §
154.133 of this code.
   (B)   If related to noncommercial aeronautical activities, the lease
applicant will complete the standard land lease agreement for noncommercial
aeronautical activity and submit it to the County Commission for approval.
   (C)   Applicants for tenant aircraft tie downs shall make application to
airport management, who will review and approve tie down leases.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-2) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.162 TERMS OF LEASE.
   (A)   Commercial activity. The duration of any lease agreement, and any
subsequent renewal period, executed for land leased in connection with the
operation of any type of commercial aeronautical activity shall be as
negotiated and agreed between the applicant and the county.
   (B)   Noncommercial aeronautical activity. The duration of lease agreements
executed for land on which private aircraft hangars are sited will be for a
period of 30 years. Established lease fees shall be paid annually no later than
January 31 of each year to the County Treasurer.
   (C)   Aircraft tie downs. Leases for tenant aircraft tie downs shall be
indefinite in duration, and established lease fees shall be paid on a monthly
basis (to either the County Treasurer, or to airport management if that payment
method has been directed by the county).
   (D)   Subleasing or assigning. The lessee shall not assign his or her lease,
or sublease the premises in its entirety, without prior written approval of the
County Commission. The partial rental or sharing of the lessee’s hangar space
with others, not a party to the lease, shall not be considered a commercial
purpose and shall not be considered subleasing such space. The use of any
hangar space by parties other than the lessee is still subject to, and required
to comply with, all of the terms of the lease agreement. All sections of the
lease agreement must be complied with prior to any use of a hangar by the
sublessee.
   (E)   Termination of lease. Upon the termination of this lease, the
buildings, improvements and other personal property erected or located upon the
premises shall remain the property of the lessee. The lessee shall have the
right to remove the same from the premises within 60 days from the date of the
termination of the lease. Any property not so removed within said 60-day period
shall become the property of the county to be disposed of in such a way as it
may be deemed fit. In the event the lessee elects to remove said building
improvements, the land shall be left in a clean and graded condition. If the
county is required to terminate any lease through legal action and the lessee
is not in default and chooses not to remove leasehold improvements, the county
shall pay the leaseholder the fair market value for such improvements.
   (F)   Compliance. It shall be understood and agreed that:
      (1)   Lessee will comply with all provisions of the lease, and further
agrees that, if there be failure on the part of the lessee to perform, keep and
observe any of the covenants and conditions contained therein, and provided
that lessee be given written notice to correct or cure such default, and within
30 days from the date of such notice the default shall not have been corrected
in a manner satisfactory to the county, the county shall have the right to
declare the lease terminated;
      (2)   Lessee will indemnify and hold harmless the county against every
claim of whatever kind and nature that may be made against it on account of any
act or omission of lessee or any other person acting in its behalf or under its
direction or holding through or under it. Lessee further agrees to waive all
claims against the county for whatever cause which may occur to it or its
property in the use or occupancy of the demised premises other than damages
arising from the sole negligence of the county, its officers, agents or
employees;
      (3)   Lessee will maintain the leased premises in a reasonable condition
of safety, repair and cleanliness. In the case of a lease for a private
aircraft hangar or tenant aircraft tie down space, this requirement shall
extend to the immediate environs of such space, with the leaseholder being
responsible for the general order, cleanliness and mowing of such area. No
outside storage of any kind will be permitted in such area, unless upon land
already under leasehold;
      (4)   For privately-owned aircraft storage hangars, the lessee shall
maintain such public liability insurance as may be specified in his or her land
lease agreement with the county;
      (5)   The lessee is an independent entity and not an agent or employee of
the lessor with regard to any acts or omissions of the lessee;
      (6)   Nothing within the lease shall be construed to grant or authorize
the granting of an exclusive right upon the airport beyond that right to
exclusive use of the real property that is the subject of the lease;
      (7)   The lessor reserves the right to take any action it considers
necessary to protect the aerial approaches of the airport against obstruction,
together with the right to prevent lessee from erecting any structure on or
near the airport which, in the opinion of the county, would limit the
usefulness of the airport or constitute a hazard to aircraft;
      (8)   The lease shall be subordinate to the provisions of any existing or
future agreement between the lessor and the federal/state government(s)
relative to the operation and maintenance of the airport, the execution of
which has been or may be required as a condition precedent to the expenditure
of federal/state funds for development of the airport;
      (9)   The lessor or designated representative reserves the right to
temporarily close the airport for maintenance, improvement or as may be
required for the safety of the flying public; and
      (10)   The lessee shall be solely responsible for all incidental,
miscellaneous costs associated with the lease-holding, such as taxes and/or
similar assessments, utility fees, maintenance and upkeep of the leasehold area
and the like.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-3) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 154.175 LAND RENTAL.
   The County Commission may establish land rental fees for commercial
activities and noncommercial aeronautical activities on improved or unimproved
land at the airport. Rental rates and any subsequent changes to these rates,
will be established by resolution of the County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-1) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.176 TIE DOWN FEES.
   The County Commission may establish tie down fees for transient and tenant
aircraft at the airport. Tie down fees will be set by resolution of the County
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-2) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.177 FUEL FLOWAGE FEES.
   The County Commission may require that a fee or royalty be paid to the
county by any person selling or dispensing fuel at the airport. Fuel flowage
fees or royalties will be established by resolution of the County Commission.
Billing considerations, such as the submission of delivery receipts to the
county showing all fuel delivered at the airport during the preceding calendar
month, will be addressed via any resolution establishing fuel flowage fees or
royalties.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-3) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.178 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   Any person operating a commercial activity at the airport may be required to
pay the county a percentage of gross and/or a flat fee as provided by contract.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-4) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.179 RATE AND CHARGE ADJUSTMENT.
   The County Commission may periodically adjust the fees, royalties or other
charges authorized in this subchapter, whether based on review and appraisal to
determine fair market values, or perhaps tied to such an economic indicator as
the CPI.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-5) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.180 BILLING PROCEDURES AND LATE CHARGES.
   Rental fees associated with land lease agreements shall be due and payable
as established in §§
154.160 through
154.162 of this code. All other amounts payable will be due on the fifth day of
the month following the month when the debt was incurred, and late charges in
the amount of 1% per month or a minimum fee as set forth in currently adopted
fee schedule shall accrue if the amount is not paid within 30 days of the due
date. If legal action is required to collect any amount, the county shall also
be entitled to attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-6) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
154.002 of this code shall be deemed a class B misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-2) (Ord. 10-09, passed 10-4-2011)
CHAPTER 155: LAND USE
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Short title
   
155.002   Introduction; conflicting provisions
   
155.003   Purpose
   
155.004   Interpretation
   
155.005   Covenants, agreements and other laws
   
155.006   Effect on previous ordinances and maps
   
155.007   Licenses and permits to conform
   
155.008   Definitions
Administration; Enforcement
   
155.020   Zoning Administrator authority and duties
   
155.021   Zoning regulations generally
   
155.022   Amendments to title and zoning map
   
155.023   Procedures for amendments and rezonings
   
155.024   Building permit; site plan required
   
155.025   Building, land use and occupancy permit requirements
   
155.026   Consulting fees paid by applicant
   
155.027   Inactive applications
   
155.028   Planning Commission
   
155.029   General Plan
   
155.030   Appeal authority; appeals and variance hearing officer.
   
155.031   Public hearings, public comment and public meetings
   
155.032   Noticing
Document and Plan Submission
   
155.045   Document submission and review procedures
   
155.046   Preapplication consultation
   
155.047   Application review and approval
   
155.048   Supplemental requirements
Zoning Districts Established
   
155.060   Establishment of zoning districts
   
155.061   Filing of title and map
   
155.062   Rules for locating boundaries
   
155.063   Authorized uses within districts are plenary
   
155.064   Additional requirements in each district
   
155.065   Lots located in two or more districts
   
155.066   Lot and parcel development standards
   
155.067   Lot and parcel frontage requirements
   
155.068   Frontage requirements for access easements in MU-160, F-1 and A-20
Multiple Use, Agriculture and Rural Residential Districts
   
155.080   Purpose
   
155.081   Codes and symbols
   
155.082   Use regulations
   
155.083   Area regulations
   
155.084   Width and frontage regulations
   
155.085   Yard regulations
   
155.086   Height regulations
   
155.087   Coverage regulations
   
155.088   Recreation dwellings
   
155.089   Improvements completed or bonded and in progress before building
permit issued
   
155.090   Temporary gravel pits
   
155.091   Temporary meteorological monitor towers
Residential and Multiple-Family Residential Districts
   
155.105   Purpose
   
155.106   Codes and symbols
   
155.107   Use regulations
   
155.108   Area regulations
   
155.109   Width regulations
   
155.110   Frontage regulations
   
155.111   Yard regulations
   
155.112   Height regulations
   
155.113   Coverage regulations
   
155.114   Depth regulations
   
155.115   Improvements completed or bonded and in progress before building
permit issued
Commercial Districts
   
155.130   Purpose
   
155.131   Codes and symbols
   
155.132   Use regulations
   
155.133   Height regulations
   
155.134   Setback and yard regulations
   
155.135   Improvements completed or bonded and in progress before building
permit issued
Commercial Design Standards
   
155.150   Purpose
   
155.151   Scope
   
155.152   Nonresidential and mixed-use design standards
   
155.153   Multi-family residential design standards
   
155.154   Connectivity standards
   
155.155   Open space corridor preservation
Sensitive Area District
   
155.170   Purpose and intent
   
155.171   Definitions
   
155.172   Permitted uses
   
155.173   Conditional uses
   
155.174   Included areas; map
Redevelopment Overlay Zone
   
155.185   Purpose
   
155.186   Permitted uses
   
155.187   Conditional uses
   
155.188   Special provisions
   
155.189   Area, width, frontage, yard, coverage and height regulations
Airport Overlay Zone
   
155.200   Purpose
   
155.201   Definitions
   
155.202   Boundaries described
   
155.203   Development restrictions and standards
   
155.204   Other mandatory standards and requirements
   
155.205   Additional evaluation guidelines
   
155.206   Permitted uses and use restrictions
   
155.207   Implementation
Geologic Hazards
   
155.220   Purpose
   
155.221   Definitions
   
155.222   Applicability
   
155.223   Geologic hazards study areas
   
155.224   Responsibility for geologic hazards investigations
   
155.225   Minimum qualifications of the engineering geologist
   
155.226   Minimum qualifications of the geotechnical engineer
   
155.227   Preliminary activities
   
155.228   Reserved
   
155.229   Geologic hazards investigations and reports required
   
155.230   Submittal and certification of geologic hazards reports
   
155.231   Disclosure when a geologic hazard report is required
   
155.232   Warning and disclaimer
   
155.233   Change of use
   
155.234   Conflicting regulations
   
155.235   County hold harmless agreement
   
155.236   Geologic hazard investigations and reports
   
155.237   References
Resort Special Districts
   
155.250   Purpose
   
155.251   Establishment of RSD Zones
   
155.252   Resort Special District: Snowbasin
Town Center Design Standards
   
155.265   Purpose
   
155.266   Scope
   
155.267   Nonresidential and mixed-use design standards
   
155.268   Multi-family residential design standards
   
155.269   Connectivity standards
   
155.270   Open space corridor preservation
Recreational Dwelling Overlay District
   
155.285   Purpose
   
155.286   Establishment of RDOD Zones
   
155.287   Permitted uses
   
155.288   Conditional uses
   
155.289   Height regulations
   
155.290   Area, street frontage and setback regulations
   
155.291   Width and access regulations
   
155.292   Yard regulations
   
155.293   Slope and soil regulations
   
155.294   Septic regulations
   
155.295   Limited service area
   
155.296   Future development standards
Live-Work Dwelling Units (LWDU)
   
155.305   Generally
Supplementary Regulations
   
155.310   Effect of subchapter
   
155.311   Substandard lots
   
155.312   Every dwelling to be on a lot; exceptions
   
155.313   Yard space for one building only
   
155.314   Yards unobstructed; exceptions
   
155.315   Clear view of intersecting streets
   
155.316   Sale or lease of required space
   
155.317   Division of lots below minimum space requirements
   
155.318   Parking in front yard prohibited
   
155.319   Use of land, buildings and structures
   
155.320   Abandoned, wrecked or junk vehicles
   
155.321   Maximum height of main building
   
155.322   Special antennas and energy equipment
   
155.323   Home occupations
   
155.324   Temporary use permits
   
155.325   Bonding for improvements
   
155.326   Utilities
   
155.327   Storage of commercial vehicles in Residential Zones
   
155.328   Effect of street plan
   
155.329   Swimming pools
   
155.330   Unkempt yards
   
155.331   Standards for approving storage or salvage yard
   
155.332   Large-scale utility line installation
   
155.333   Major campgrounds for noncommercial use
   
155.334   Recreation vehicle courts and commercial campgrounds
   
155.335   Landscaping
   
155.336   Water and sewer require Health Department approval
   
155.337   Pollution prevention
   
155.338   Drainage
   
155.339   Exposed slopes to be less than critical angle of repose
   
155.340   Open pit extraction of earth products
   
155.341   Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)
   
155.342   Construction subject to geologic or flood hazards
   
155.343   Standards for church and institutional development in all zones
   
155.344   County fairgrounds use permits
   
155.345   Fence, wall and screening regulations
   
155.346   Removal of dirt and debris
   
155.347   Child daycare centers
   
155.348   Commercial recreation use regulations
   
155.349   Parcel boundary adjustments and agreements
   
155.350   Short-term vacation rentals
   
155.351   Transportation corridor preservation powers
   
155.352   Outdoor lighting requirements
   
155.353   Cemetery requirements
   
155.354   Farm animals
General Regulations
   
155.365   Nonconforming uses, structures and lots
   
155.366   Conditional uses
   
155.367   Residential facilities for elderly or handicapped persons
   
155.368   Signs
   
155.369   Off-street parking requirements
   
155.370   Wildland Urban Interface Code
   
155.371   Surveys
   
155.372   Mailbox standards
Subdivisions
   
155.385   Short title
   
155.386   Purpose
   
155.387   Interpretation
   
155.388   Definitions
   
155.389   General considerations
   
155.390   General responsibilities
   
155.391   Accurate information
   
155.392   Compliance required
   
155.393   Exemption from plat requirements
   
155.394   Required certificates, permits and reviews
   
155.395   Public notification
   
155.396   Prohibited acts
   
155.397   Appeals
   
155.398   Staff authority
   
155.399   Concept plan
   
155.400   Submission
   
155.401   Distribution of plan
   
155.402   Review by county staff of concept plan
   
155.403   Referral to the Planning Commission and County Commission
   
155.404   Expiration of concept plan
   
155.405   Preliminary plat; purpose
   
155.406   Application and fees
   
155.407   Preliminary plat submittal
   
155.408   Distribution of preliminary plat
   
155.409   Review of preliminary plat
   
155.410   Phasing of subdivision development
   
155.411   Expiration of preliminary plat approval
   
155.412   Final plat; purpose
   
155.413   Filing deadline, application and fees
   
155.414   Other required information
   
155.415   Final plat; preparation and required information
   
155.416   Review by the County Engineer
   
155.417   Review by the County Surveyor
   
155.418   Review by the Zoning Administrator
   
155.419   Review by the County Commission
   
155.420   Completion assurance for required improvements
   
155.421   Review by the county Attorney
   
155.422   Payment of fees
   
155.423   Recording of final plat
   
155.424   Expiration of final plat
   
155.425   Subdivision layout and fencing requirements
   
155.426   Lots
   
155.427   Streets, private lanes and driveways
   
155.428   Drainage
   
155.429   Utilities
   
155.430   Subdivision survey monuments
   
155.431   Improvements required
   
155.432   Warranty period
   
155.433   Construction and design standards
   
155.434   Completion
   
155.435   Development fees and taxes
   
155.436   Small subdivision
   
155.437   Approval authority; small subdivisions
   
155.438   Submission of small subdivision
   
155.439   Notification
   
155.440   Review by the Planning Commission of small subdivisions
   
155.441   Recordation of the small subdivision
   
155.442   Expiration of small subdivision approval
   
155.443   Amendments to recorded subdivision plats (PRUD/PUD amendments)
   
155.444   Procedure
   
155.445   Notice
   
155.446   Grounds for vacating or changing a plat
   
155.447   Amended plat requirements
   
155.448   Lot line and parcel boundary adjustments
   
155.449   Minor subdivision
   
155.450   Condominium projects
   
155.451   SB 174 temporary land use
Planned Community (P-C) Zone
   
155.455   Purpose
   
155.456   General plan amendment
   
155.457   Land use styles
   
155.458   Submittal requirements
   
155.459   P-C zone area; minimum requirements
   
155.460   Planning and approval process for P-C zone
   
155.461   Site plan review
   
155.462   Development standards
   
155.463   Development agreement
   
155.464   Amending the conceptual development plan
Planned Developments
   
155.465   Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District
   
155.466   Coventry Cove PUD Overlay District
Sexually-Oriented Businesses
   
155.480   Purpose and description
   
155.481   Definitions
   
155.482   Obscenity and lewdness; statutory provisions
   
155.483   Location and zoning restrictions
   
155.484   Business license
   
155.485   Expiration of license
   
155.486   Business categories; single license
   
155.487   Conduct for sexually-oriented businesses
   
155.488   Exemptions from license requirements
   
155.489   License application, disclosure
   
155.490   License fees
   
155.491   Single location and name
   
155.492   License; issuance conditions; conditional use
   
155.493   Changes in information
   
155.494   Transfer limitations
   
155.495   Prohibited acts and activities
   
155.496   Adult business, design of premises
   
155.497   Seminude entertainment business; interior design
   
155.498   Alcohol prohibited
   
155.499   Seminude dancing agency
   
155.500   Nudity; defense to prosecution
Telecommunications
   
155.515   Wireless telecommunication facilities
   
155.516   Amateur radio antenna towers
Development Agreements
   
155.530   Purpose
   
155.531   Eligibility
   
155.532   Scope
   
155.533   Minimum requirements
   
155.534   Development agreement procedures
   
155.535   Development agreement review
   
155.536   Effect of approval
   
155.537   Binding nature of development agreements
   
155.538   Expenses
   
155.539   Enforcement
   
155.540   Modification or suspension to comply with state or federal laws
   
155.541   Noncompliance
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Morgan County Land Use Management Code,”
and may be so cited and pleaded. This chapter shall also be known as Chapter
155 of the county’s code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 155.002 INTRODUCTION; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter includes many of the regulations for development and land
use in the county. See also the subdivision regulations in this chapter, and
environmental, health and discrimination regulations and the like, that may
apply.
   (B)   If there is a conflict between a provision in this chapter and one in
another regulation, the most restrictive shall apply. If there is a conflict
between state law and this chapter, state law will prevail.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 155.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted to provide for the health, safety and welfare,
and to promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order,
comfort, convenience and aesthetics of the county and its present and future
inhabitants and businesses, to protect the tax base, secure economy in
governmental expenditures, foster the state’s agricultural and other
industries, protect both urban and nonurban development and to protect property
values.
   (B)   This chapter accomplishes these purposes by governing uses, density,
open spaces, structures, buildings, energy efficiency, light and air,
transportation, infrastructure, public facilities, vegetation and trees and
landscaping.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 155.004 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the
requirements contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for
the purposes set forth.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 155.005 COVENANTS, AGREEMENTS AND OTHER LAWS.
   Unless otherwise provided by law, this chapter shall not nullify the more
restrictive provisions of covenants, agreements or other ordinances or laws.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 155.006 EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCES AND MAPS.
   The existing ordinances covering zoning, in their entirety, and including
the maps heretofore adopted and made a part of said ordinances, are hereby
superseded and amended to read as set forth herein; provided, however, that
this chapter, including the adopted map or maps, shall be deemed a continuation
of previous codes and not a new enactment, insofar as the substance of
revisions or previous codes is included in this chapter, whether in the same or
in different language, and this chapter shall be so interpreted upon all
questions of construction relating to tenure of officers and boards established
by previous codes, to questions of conforming or nonconforming uses and
buildings and structures, and to questions as to the dates upon which such
uses, buildings or structures became conforming or nonconforming.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 155.007 LICENSES AND PERMITS TO CONFORM.
   All departments, officials and public employees of the county which are
vested with duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit or license for uses,
buildings or purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions
of this chapter, and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be null and void.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
§ 155.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number shall
include the plural and the plural the singular; the word “building” shall
include the word “structure;” the words “used” or “occupied” shall include
“arranged,” “designed,” “constructed,” “altered,” “converted,” “rented,”
“leased” or “intended to be used or occupied;” the word “shall” is mandatory
and not directory, and the word “may” is permissive; the word “person” includes
a “firm,” “association,” “organization,” “partnership,” “trust,” “company or
corporation,” as well as an “individual;” the word “lot” includes the words
“plot” or “parcel.” Words used in this chapter but not defined herein shall
have the meaning as defined in any other ordinance adopted by the county; or,
shall be defined by their plain meaning as generally recognized.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A detached building located on a lot or parcel which is
incidental to the main allowed use on the lot or parcel.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS. A second dwelling unit on a property within a
single-family residential zoning district that is incidental to the primary
dwelling unit on the property. Only one ADU is permitted per property.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use of land or structure, or portion thereof, customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or structure and
located on the same lot or parcel with the principal use.
   ACTIVE SOLAR SYSTEM. A system of equipment capable of collecting and
converting incident solar radiation into heat, mechanical or electrical energy,
and transferring these forms of energy by a separate apparatus to storage or to
the point of use. It includes water heating, space heating or cooling, electric
energy generating or mechanical energy generating, and the architectural and
engineering design or system necessary to balance or optimize active
components.
   AGRIBUSINESS.
      (1)   Any individual, partnership, corporation or organization primarily
supplying services or goods (such as equipment, feeds or supplies) to
producers, or marketable agricultural products, including nurseries, farm
cooperatives and the like. This includes activities that involve processing and
packaging of farm goods. This also includes uses that involve activities,
processes and/or buildings that are subject to taxation and/or state
regulation.
      (2)   The intent of the AGRIBUSINESS definition is not to limit
agricultural uses or activities in the county. Rather, it serves to offer
alternative ways of allowing agricultural-related uses and activities in a
manner that promotes agriculture in the county. AGRIBUSINESS use designations
are to be used to help enhance agricultural activities in the county, and as
such may act as a buffer between agricultural activities and other land use
designations and activities.
   AGRICULTURAL AREA. For purposes of §
155.425 of this code, land devoted to the raising of livestock with a
reasonable expectation of profit.
   AGRICULTURAL FENCE. A fence that complies with the standards set for in the
USDA NRCS Woven or Barbed Wire Conservation Practice Job Sheets or USDA NRCS
wildlife fence recommendations in wildlife migration corridors or critical
wildlife habitat.
   AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY (AGRICULTURAL BUSINESS). Includes, but is not limited
to, animal feed yards, the raising of furbearing animals, commercial poultry or
egg production, commercial greenhouses and similar uses as determined by the
Planning Commission.
   AGRICULTURE. The production of food through: The tilling of the soil; the
raising of crops; breeding and raising of domestic animals and fowl, except
household pets; and not including any agricultural industry or business.
   AIRPORT. All AIRPORT definitions and regulations will be found in the
airport ordinance adopted by the county, Chapter 154 of this code, except as
AIRPORTS are governed under the general use regulations of this chapter.
   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare less than 26 feet wide for the use
of pedestrians and vehicles providing a secondary means of access to the rear
of abutting properties. An ALLEY shall not be considered a street or frontage
for lots for the purpose of this chapter.
   AMUSEMENT PARK. Any place of organized amusement activity not conducted
wholly within a completely enclosed building, whether a commercial or nonprofit
enterprise, except temporary celebrations sanctioned by the governing body by a
special permit.
   ANIMAL CLINIC (ANIMAL HOSPITAL). Any building or portion thereof designed or
used for the care or treatment of animals or fowl, and/or in which veterinary
service is provided or is available.
   APPEAL AUTHORITY. The person, board, commission, agency or other body
designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use
application or a variance.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed for any land use application or such
owner’s duly authorized agent. Any agent must have written authorization from
the owner.
   APPURTENANCES. Appendages and incidental details on buildings are building
projections, coverings for mechanical equipment and the like.
   ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION. Any building or structural projection which is not
intended for occupancy, and which extends beyond the face of an exterior wall
of a building or structure, but not including signs.
   AUTOMATIC CAR WASH. A facility for automatic or self-service washing and
cleaning of automobiles and small trucks not exceeding one and one-half tons’
capacity.
   AUTOMATIC TRUCK WASH. A facility for automatic self-service washing or
cleaning of trucks exceeding one and one-half tons’ capacity.
   AUTOMOBILE PAINT SHOP. A facility for painting of automobiles, trucks,
trailers, boats or other travel or recreation vehicles or units.
   AUTOMOBILE SELF-SERVICE STATION.
      (1)   A place where gasoline or any other motor fuel for operating motor
vehicles is offered for sale and is dispensed to the vehicle by the purchaser.
      (2)   The SELF-SERVICE STATION may be independent or in conjunction with
a retail store.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline or any other motor fuel
or lubricating oil or grease for operating motor vehicles is offered for sale
to the public and deliveries are made directly into motor vehicles, and where
services performed may include tube and tire repair, battery charging, storage
of merchandise and tune up of automobiles, but not including major auto repair.
   AUTOMOTIVE BODY AND FENDER SHOP. A facility for major automobile, truck,
mobile home, recreational coach or recreational vehicle repairs to body, frame
or fenders, and including rebuilding.
   AUTOMOTIVE SALES AREA. An open area used for display, sale or rental of new
or used motor vehicles, mobile homes, recreational coaches or recreational
vehicles in operable condition.
   AUTOMOTIVE SALVAGE YARD (AUTOMOBILE WRECKING OR PROCESSING YARD). A lot, or
portion thereof, used for the storage, dismantling, demolition or abandonment
of automobiles, other vehicles, other machinery or parts thereof.
   AVERAGE PERCENT OF SLOPE. An expression of rise or fall in elevation along a
line perpendicular to the contours of the land. For example, a vertical rise of
100 feet between two points 100 feet apart, measured on a horizontal plane is
100% slope.
   BASEMENT. Any floor level below the first story in a building, as defined in
the Building Code. Its floor level is more than four feet below grade for more
than 50% of the total perimeter of the building or is more than eight feet
below grade at any point.
   BASEMENT, WALKOUT OR DAYLIGHT. A basement that has direct exiting through a
door to the exterior of the building at grade (not a recessed landing, patio or
stairwell).
   BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY. 
      (1)   A residential facility that is owner occupied consisting of one or
two structures on a lot, including the owners’ residence, and contains guest
sleeping rooms; and
      (2)   The lot must have frontage on a major street as shown on the
county’s General Plan (state highway or county major street).
         (a)   Two parking spaces shall be provided for the host family, plus
one for each guest sleeping room.
         (b)   The site shall be landscaped to provide a visual and noise
buffer to adjacent property. Hard-surfaced areas shall be located so as to
provide ease of entry and exit and considering visual impact to adjoining
property.
         (c)   Meals may be served to registered overnight guests only.
         (d)   Signs are limited to one nameplate or one identification sign of
not more than 16 square feet in area or as per conditional use permit.
         (e)   A business license must be obtained.
   BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION. The excavation or recontouring of the site.
   BIKE PATH (BIKE TRAIL, BIKE LANE). A right-of-way designed and constructed
for use by bicycles and not intended for use by pedestrians or motor vehicles
of any kind. A BIKE PATH may be located within or without a street right-of-
way, at grade or at grade separated from vehicular traffic. BIKE LANES may also
be included as a part of a street.
   BILLBOARD. A freestanding ground sign located on industrial, commercial or
residential property if the sign is designed or intended to direct attention to
a business, product or service that is not sold, offered or existing on the
property where the sign is located.
   BLOCK. Land surrounded by streets or other rights-of-way, other than an
alley, or land which is designated as a BLOCK on any recorded subdivision plat.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot which, in its natural state, has an
average percent of slope less than 25%, with a contiguous building area of at
least 5,000 square feet, and which is free of other building constraints which
are identified by this chapter. Areas over 25% slope shall not be included
within any BUILDABLE AREA or building envelope.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average natural grade
surface at the foundation, to the highest point of the building roof or coping.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of the adopted Building Code, or a duly
authorized representative.
   CAMP. An establishment used to provide indoor and outdoor activities,
including, but not limited to, sports, arts, crafts, entertainment, recreation,
educational activities, swimming, fishing, horseback riding and incidental food
service. When incidental to the CAMP use, CAMP facilities may be used to
provide meeting, recreation or social facilities for a private association or
group.
   CAMPING. A temporary establishment of living facilities such as tents or
recreational coaches as regulated by this chapter.
   CAPITAL PROJECT. An organized undertaking which provides, or is intended to
provide, the county with a capital asset. “Capital asset” is defined according
to generally accepted accounting principles.
   CARPORT. A private parking area not completely enclosed by walls or a floor
above. For the purposes of this chapter, a CARPORT shall be subject to all the
zoning regulations prescribed for a private garage.
   CELLAR. A room or rooms having more than 50% of the floor to ceiling height
under the average level of the adjoining ground.
   CEMETERY. A place where dead bodies and cremated remains are buried. It is a
locale set aside, either by governmental authority or private enterprise. A
PUBLIC CEMETERY is open for use by the community at large while a PRIVATE
CEMETERY is used only by a small segment of a community or by a family.
   CEMETERY, PRIVATE. One used only by a family or a small portion of the
community up to ten plots.
   CEMETERY, PUBLIC. One used by the general community, a neighborhood or a
church.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The County Commission, or if the county has adopted
an alternative form of government, the official who exercises the executive
powers.
   CHILD DAYCARE CENTER. An establishment for the care and/or the instruction
of five or more children, for compensation, other than for members of the
family residing on the premises, but not including a public school.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses,
maintained and controlled by a duly recognized religious organization where
persons regularly assemble for worship and religious instruction.
   CLINIC, DENTAL OR MEDICAL. A building in which a group of dentists,
physicians and/or allied professionals in the healing arts are associated for
the conduct of their professions. The CLINIC may include a dental and/or
medical laboratory and an apothecary, but it shall not include inpatient care
or operating rooms for major surgery.
   CLUB, PRIVATE. A social, recreational or athletic club or similar
association or corporation, incorporated under the provisions of the Utah
Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act, being UCA § 16-6a-101, for the above stated
purposes, which maintains or intends to maintain premises upon which alcoholic
beverages are or will be stored, consumed or sold, and which for that reason is
required to be licensed by the state.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION USE. A recreational use of lands or activity on lands
for business or financial gain.
   COMPATIBLE WITH RESIDENTIAL. Compatibility will be measured by whether or
not the proposed development adversely impacts the quality of life in the area.
Property values must be sustained or enhanced as opposed to diminishing values;
the effects of ultimate traffic on streets will be considered rather than
complaints that a new development will increase unwanted traffic; improvements
in the infrastructure will be considered as to how and who pays for them;
positive contributions to the financing of needed improvements will be weighed
against the assessment on existing residential developments; proximity of
possible impacts will be evaluated and nondirectly impacted citizens will be
considered in the group of the general citizenry. Also considered will be
relief from the monotonous, somewhat uniform subdividing of the countryside,
which will be considered a positive factor if it provides an aesthetic relief.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A sketch or concept drawing plus other basic requirements
prior to the preliminary plat for subdivisions to enable the subdivider to
reach general agreement with the county as to the form of the plan and the
objectives of these regulations and to receive guidance as to the requirements
for subdivisions within the county. Acceptance of a CONCEPT PLAN does not
constitute final approval or vesting for any subdivision proposal.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use that, because of the unique characteristics or
potential impact of the land use on the county, surrounding neighbors or
adjacent land uses, may not be compatible in some areas, or may be compatible
only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the
detrimental impacts.
   CONDITIONAL USE DEVELOPMENT. A development or land use application which
requires a conditional use permit, pursuant to this chapter.
    CONDOMINIUM. A property conforming to the definition set forth in UCA §§
57-8-1 et seq., as amended. A CONDOMINIUM is also a “subdivision” subject to
this chapter and the Condominium Ownership Act of the state.
   CORRAL. A space, other than a building, less than one acre in area or less
than 100 feet in width, used for the confinement of animals or fowl.
   COUNTY. The unincorporated land within Morgan County. COUNTY may also refer
to the County Commission or other county land use authority.
   COUNTY COMMISSION. The elected governing body of the county.
   COUNTY DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS. Those standards and specifications
approved by the county to ensure the proper design, construction, installation
and public safety of infrastructure improvements and public facilities.
Standards may include generally accepted survey, engineering and public works
requirements, which are essentially linked and roughly proportional to the
developments impact, as administered by the County Engineer and County
Surveyor.
   COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS USES. Those uses of land undertaken on the property
commonly referred to as the county fairgrounds, and which are undertaken solely
on property owned by the county or an authorized user or approved lessee of the
county. COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS USES shall be undertaken in accordance with §
155.344 of this code and may include temporary and permanent uses and special
events.
   CROSSWALK or WALKWAY. A right-of-way designed for use by pedestrians and not
intended for use by motor vehicles of any kind. A CROSSWALK or WALKWAY or
pedestrianway may be located within or without a street right-of-way, at grade,
or grade separated from vehicular traffic.
   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A minor terminal street provided with a turnaround of a
minimum radius as specified by adopted construction and Fire Code standards.
   CULINARY WATER FACILITIES. Water supply lines, pumps, springs, wells and/or
any other physical facilities necessary to provide a supply of culinary water
to a use in sufficient quantity and of approved quality to meet the applicable
standards.
   CUSTOMER. A lot owner or other consumer of water through a culinary water
distribution system operated by a water supplier.
   DAIRY. A commercial establishment for the manufacture, processing or
packaging of dairy products and their sale. For the purposes of this
definition, the production of milk on a farm for wholesale marketing off the
premises shall not classify the farm as a DAIRY.
   DENSITY. A measure of the number of dwelling units per acre of area. It
shall be expressed dwelling units per acre (DU/acre). Unbuildable land (as
defined by the Planning Commission) is land with a slope greater than 25%,
subject to inundation or other geological hazards. Land classified unbuildable
for any reason (slope, wetland, seismic easement, landslide area and the like)
does not qualify for DENSITY in density calculations. Except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, the maximum DENSITY permitted for a site is the net
developable area (in acres) times the density factor derived from the required
lot area for each dwelling unit in the zone.
   DEVELOPER. The owner or authorized agent of land proposed to be subdivided
or developed who is responsible for any undertaking that requires review and/or
approval of a subdivision plat, and who proposes to take water through a
culinary water distribution system operated by a water supplier.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. A written agreement or amendment to a written
agreement between a county and one or more parties that regulates or controls
the use or development of a specific area of land. DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT does
not include an improvement completion assurance.
   DEVELOPMENT (LAND). The conversion or alteration of use or physical
characteristics of land; placing improvements on the land; or putting land to
intensive use such as a subdivision, mobile home park, recreational vehicle
park, shopping center, industrial park, excavation and the like.
   DISTRICT (ZONE OR ZONING DISTRICT). A portion of the territory of the county
established as a ZONING DISTRICT by this chapter, within which certain uniform
regulations and requirements, or various combinations thereof, apply under the
provisions of this chapter.
   DRIVEWAY.
      (1)   A private roadway, including its width, paving and drainage to the
right-of-way line and stacking area, the use of which is limited to persons
residing, employed or otherwise using or visiting the parcel on which the
driveway is located.
      (2)   All driveways of new residences where construction has commenced
after January 9, 1996, and where the residences front on roads designated as
major collector roads by the County Commission, shall be designed in such a
manner as to require vehicles, resident or nonresident, to enter traffic moving
forward. (No backing onto a major collector road.)
   DUDE RANCH. A ranch-type resort destination that offers overnight
accommodations for people to experience ranch work and lifestyle. These ranches
may have agricultural production as a portion of their revenue, but their main
function is a tourist destination.
   DWELLING. Any noncommercial building, or portion thereof, designed or used
as the principal residence or sleeping place of one or more persons or
families, but not including a tent, a recreational coach, hotel, motel,
hospital or nursing home.
   DWELLING, FOUR-FAMILY (FOURPLEX). A building containing only four dwelling
units.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building containing more than one dwelling unit
(DU).
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing only one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY (TRIPLEX). A building containing only three dwelling
units.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX). A building containing only two dwelling
units.
   DWELLING UNIT (DU). A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT. A present or future right of use under, on or above the surface of
property by a person or agency other than the legal owner of the property.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 60 years old or older, who desires or needs
to live with other ELDERLY PERSONS in a group setting, but who is capable of
living independently.
   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT.
      (1)   A report which describes, by means of written narrative as well as
maps, a geographical area in terms of existing:
         (a)   Slope;
         (b)   Soils;
         (c)   Watercourses;
         (d)   Water table;
         (e)   Flood hazard areas;
         (f)   Geologic hazards;
         (g)   Vegetative types;
         (h)   Wildlife, wildlife habitat; and
         (i)   Essential urban services presently available.
      (2)   The report includes a tabulation of proposed population density and
the numbers and types of proposed dwellings and other buildings and spaces to
be occupied at full development.
      (3)   The report further describes by means of written narrative, as well
as maps, the impact of the proposed development on the following specific
subject areas once the anticipated population density is achieved within the
area to be developed:
         (a)   Watercourses and flood hazards;
         (b)   Natural vegetation;
         (c)   Wildlife;
         (d)   Erosion;
         (e)   Topsoil loss;
         (f)   Sedimentation of watercourses and reservoirs;
         (g)   Slope stability;
         (h)   Dust;
         (i)   Fire potential;
         (j)   Accumulation of solid or liquid wastes; and
         (k)   The need and desire for urban services.
      (4)   The report also evaluates the potential area wide economic impact
of the development on both private and public economic sectors and the
potential impact on school, public utility and transportation systems.
      (5)   Finally, the report recommends measures which, if undertaken, will
mitigate or obviate the adverse impacts resulting from construction of the
proposed development, and discusses the benefits to be gained from such
development, and what adverse impacts cannot be avoided and the extent of their
detrimental influence.
   EXCAVATION. Any disruption of the soil mantle and/or human-made surfacing of
the same. EXCAVATIONS may be either in the nature of a process or a use.
EXCAVATIONS undertaken for the purpose of preparing a site for an ultimate land
use or for repairing or constructing urban service facilities are processes
that are authorized by the building permit for which they are preparing.
EXCAVATIONS such as gravel pits, quarries or mines are uses which require
specific use authorization in the zoning district where located and require a
conditional permit.
   FAMILY. Any of the following who occupy a dwelling unit:
      (1)   One person living alone;
      (2)   Two or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, and
foster children living together as a single housekeeping unit; and up to two
other persons hired for compensation such as nannies, servants, gardeners,
custodians or security guards residing on the same premises where the
housekeeping unit is located;
      (3)   Up to five unrelated individuals living together as a single
housekeeping unit; or
      (4)   A group of persons with a disability living in a residential
facility for persons with a disability as permitted by this chapter.
   FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION. The keeping of animals and fowl on the premises
intended for family use on all single-family residential lots outlined in §
155.354(A).
   FARM ANIMALS. The keeping of animals and fowl commonly used for food or
fiber production or as a beast of burden, for commercial purposes or for
pleasure. The regulations for FARM ANIMAL density allowed in various zones is
contained in §
155.354.
   FEE SCHEDULE. The schedule or any appendix of fees adopted periodically by
resolution of the County Commission setting forth various fees charged by the
county.
   FEED YARD. An agricultural industry in which animals or fowl are kept and
intensively fed in a relatively restricted area, as contrasted with open
pasturage.
   FINAL PLAT. The final drawing of a subdivision and dedication prepared for
filing with the County Recorder which complies with applicable requirements set
forth in this chapter and other titles of this code and provisions adopted
pursuant thereto. Such plat shall also be in conformity with UCA §§ 17-27a-603
et seq., as amended.
   FIREFIGHTING FACILITIES. Such water supply, water lines, fire hydrants and
other protective devices as may be required in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter or other applicable standards.
   FLOOD HAZARD. A hazard to land or improvements due to inundation or overflow
water having sufficient velocity to transport or deposit debris, scour the
surface soil, dislodge or damage buildings or erode the banks of watercourses.
   FLOOD, 100-YEAR. A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   FLOOD, 10-YEAR. A flood having a 10% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   FLOODPLAIN, 100-YEAR. The area adjacent to a drainage channel which may be
inundated by a 100-year flood as designated on the most recent flood insurance
rate map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOODPLAIN SOILS. Areas subject to periodic flooding and listed in the soil
survey prepared by the national conservation service which encompasses the
county as being on the floodplain or subject to flooding.
   FLOODWAY. An area designated by FEMA as subject to periodic inundation.
   FOOD PROCESSING. The processing of milk, other dairy products, meat or field
crops or any other grown food, the bottling, canning or packaging of
agricultural products.
   FRONTAGE. The length, in feet, of the front lot or parcel line which is
coterminous with the front street line.
   FRONTAGE, LOT. See definition of FRONTAGE.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed and/or used for the storage
of motor vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it
is accessory; provided, that a garage shall be considered part of the dwelling
if the garage and dwelling have a roof or wall in common.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building, or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling, leasing,
renting or storing motor vehicles.
   GENERAL OFFICE SPACE. A building, or portion thereof, used for
administrative, clerical, computer or professional activities which do not
require the land area/floor space associated with retail or industrial uses.
   GENERAL PLAN. A document that a county adopts that sets forth general
guidelines for proposed future development of:
      (1)   The unincorporated land within the county; or
      (2)   For a Mountainous Planning District, the land within the
Mountainous Planning District.
   GEOLOGIC HAZARD.
      (1)   A surface fault rupture;
      (2)   Shallow groundwater;
      (3)   Liquefaction;
      (4)   A landslide;
      (5)   A debris flow;
      (6)   Unstable soil;
      (7)   A rock fall; or
      (8)   Any other geologic condition that presents a risk:
         (a)   To life;
         (b)   Of substantial loss of real property; or
         (c)   Of substantial damage to real property.
   GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the county.
   GRADING. Either an excavation or fill, or the act of excavating or filling.
   GROUP HOMES. A home for certain handicapped or elderly persons as defined by
state law as being permitted in residential areas of the county by conditional
use permit. (See definitions of ELDERLY PERSON and HANDICAPPED PERSON.)
   HANDICAPPED PERSON. A person who has a severe, chronic disability
attributable to a mental or physical impairment, or to a combination of mental
and physical impairments, that is likely to continue indefinitely and that
results in a substantial functional limitation in three or more of the
following areas of major life activity:
      (1)   Self-care;
      (2)   Receptive and expressive language;
      (3)   Learning;
      (4)   Mobility;
      (5)   Self-direction;
      (6)   Capacity for independent living;
      (7)   Economic self-sufficiency; and
      (8)   Requires a combination or sequence of special interdisciplinary or
generic care, treatment or other services that are individually planned and
coordinated to allow the person to function in, and contribute to, a
residential neighborhood.
   HELI-SKIING. A commercial recreational use providing for off trail, downhill
skiing or snowboarding that is accessed by a helicopter, as opposed to a ski
lift. HELI-SKIING is considered to have little or no impact on public health,
safety and general welfare; therefore, is permitted as a use and/or activity
for seasonal recreation activities in a specific zone as opposed to a specific
parcel of property.
   HILLSIDE AREA. Any property with a slope of 25% or greater. HILLSIDE AREAS
are not considered buildable and may not be included within a building
envelope.
   HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATION. A community association which is organized within a
development in which individual owners share common interests and
responsibilities for open space, landscaping, roads, infrastructure or
facilities.
   HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services, primarily for
inpatients, and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including as
an integral part of the institution such related facilities as laboratories,
outpatient departments, training facilities, central service facilities and
staff offices.
   HOTEL. A building designed for or occupied as the more or less temporary
abiding place of 16 or more individuals who are lodged for compensation, with
or without meals.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept
for company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats and other common household pets,
but not any animals which are likely to inflict harm or endanger the health,
safety or welfare of any person or property. This definition shall not include
a sufficient number of dogs or cats as to constitute a “kennel,” as defined in
this section.
   IMPACT FEE. A payment of money imposed under the Impact Fees Act, UCA § 11-
36a.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Those surfaces that do not absorb precipitation (water)
and thus cause ponding and/or runoff. All buildings, parking areas, driveways,
roads, sidewalks and any areas in concrete and asphalt, shall be considered
IMPERVIOUS SURFACES within this definition. In addition, other areas determined
by the County Engineer to be impervious within the meaning of this definition
will also be classed as IMPERVIOUS SURFACES.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE RATIO. A measure of the intensity of land use. It is
determined by dividing the total area of all impervious surfaces within the
site by the base site area.
   IMPOUND/SECURITY LOT. A security lot fenced, with or without a guard dog,
and illuminated, where police or privately impounded vehicles may be kept for
legal evidence or other purposes, or while awaiting repairs. Normally where
damaged vehicles are taken after an accident.
   IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE. A surety bond, letter of credit, financial
institution bond, cash, assignment of rights, lien or other equivalent security
required by a county to guaranty the proper completion of landscaping, or an
infrastructure improvement required as a condition precedent to:
      (1)   Recording a subdivision plat; or
      (2)   Development of a commercial, industrial, mixed-use or multi-family
project.
   IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY. An applicant’s unconditional warranty that the
applicant’s installed and accepted landscaping or infrastructure improvement:
      (1)   Complies with the county’s written standards for design, materials
and workmanship; and
      (2)   Will not fail in any material respect, as a result of poor
workmanship or materials, within the improvement warranty period.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Work, objects, devices, facilities or utilities required to be
constructed or installed in a land development. Such IMPROVEMENTS may include,
but are not limited to, street or private lane construction to required
standards, water facilities, sewer facilities, sidewalks, curbs and gutters,
drainage facilities, street trees, street signs, streetlights, traffic control
or safety devices, fire hydrants and such other facilities or construction
required by this chapter, subdivision regulations or by the Planning Commission
and/or governing body for the necessary proper development of the proposed land
development.
   INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PLAN. Comprehensive management for best assurance of
maintaining standards and conditions of approval is the intent in the
administration of a conditional use permit. Therefore, every assurance will be
required to maximize the meeting of the community’s performance standards and
minimize the problems of their enforcement through approved comprehensive
management plans which have been prepared by the applicant and approved by the
governing body. Single responsible management is felt crucial to consistent
care and observance of binding regulations in assuring compatibility with the
surrounding area of certain developments negotiated with the community. Agreed
upon penalties for violations of the management plan are considered an
important integral part of enforcement.
   INTERNAL LOT RESTRICTION. A platted note, platted demarcation or platted
designation that: Runs with the land; creates a restriction that is enclosed
within the perimeter of a lot described on the plat; or designates a
development condition that is enclosed within the perimeter of a lot described
on the plat.
   JUNK. Old scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper trash, rubber
debris or other waste or salvage materials; dismantled, junked or wrecked
automobiles or parts thereof; and old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous metal
materials.
   JUNKYARD. The use of any lot, portion of a lot or tract of land for the
storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap
material, or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or
other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof; provided, that this definition
shall be deemed not to include such uses which are clearly accessory and
incidental to any agricultural use permitted in the district.
   KENNEL. Any premises where three or more dogs, or five or more cats, older
than four months, are kept for the purpose of boarding, keeping, breeding,
buying, grooming, holding for adoption, letting for hire, training for profit
or selling.
   LAND, AGRICULTURAL. Land used for bona fide agricultural purposes, or which
is projected for agricultural use by the General Plan or this chapter, as
adopted by the county, but not including legally existing nonconforming uses
located in areas so projected.
   LAND, COMMERCIAL. Land used for bona fide commercial purposes, or which is
projected for commercial use by the General Plan or this chapter, as adopted by
the county, except legally existing nonconforming uses in areas designated
commercial in this chapter.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS (PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS). Adopted
construction standards, including, but not limited to, drawings, tables, charts
and references which have been adopted by the governing body by resolution and
which set standards for the construction of improvements to land, and which
regulate said construction of improvements to land.
   LAND, INDUSTRIAL. Land used for bona fide industrial purposes, or which is
projected for industrial use by the General Plan or this chapter, as adopted by
the county, except legally existing nonconforming uses in areas designated
industrial in this chapter.
   LAND USE APPLICANT. A property owner, or the property owner’s designee, who
submits a land use application regarding the property owner’s land.
   LAND USE APPLICATION.
      (1)   An application that is:
         (a)   Required by a county; and
         (b)   Submitted by a land use applicant to obtain a land use decision.
      (2)   The term does not mean an application to enact, amend or repeal a
land use.
   LAND USE AUTHORITY.
      (1)   A person, board, commission, agency or body, including the local
legislative body, designated by the local legislative body to act upon a land
use application; or
      (2)   If the local legislative body has not designated a person, board,
commission, agency or body, the local legislative body.
   LAND USE DECISION. An administrative decision of a land use authority or
appeal authority regarding:
      (1)   A land use permit;
      (2)   A land use application; or
      (3)   The enforcement of a land use regulation, land use permit or
development agreement.
   LAND USE INTENSITY. The degree to which land is used by humans, ranging from
no use to unremitting, continual and concentrated use of the land. LAND USE
INTENSITY is normally measured by:
      (1)   Type of use (i.e., agricultural, residential, commercial or
industrial);
      (2)   Period of use in average hours per day;
      (3)   Numbers of humans, associated animals and machines which occupy the
land during the average hours of use; and
      (4)   The percent of the land covered by human-made structures.
   LAND USE PERMIT. A permit issued by a land use authority.
   LAND USE REGULATION.
      (1)   A legislative decision enacted by ordinance, law, code, map,
resolution, specification, fee or rule that governs the use or development of
land;
      (2)   Includes the adoption or amendment of a zoning map or the text of
the zoning code; and
      (3)   Does not include:
         (a)   A land use decision of the legislative body acting as the land
use authority, even if the decision is expressed in a resolution or ordinance;
or
         (b)   A temporary revision to an engineering specification that does
not materially:
            1.   Increase a land use applicant’s cost of development compared
to the existing specification; or
            2.   Impact a land use applicant’s use of land.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The County Commission.
   LETTER OF INTENT. Letter from the service provider stating that it plans to
serve the property. It is not a commitment. The service provider can provide
conditions of service such as whether there is sufficient utility capacity, the
required infrastructure to safely and effectively deliver the utility, timely
payment of fees and connection charges and requirements pertaining to those
that must be completed before the final plat is approved.
   LIGHT MANUFACTURING. Only those processes which clearly do not threaten the
natural environment with any more pollution than that normally experienced in
the neighborhood or immediate vicinity may be considered light manufacturing
and permitted in an area. Uses such as electronics, nontoxic welding or
soldering of small items, assemblage of relatively small portable devices,
highly controlled testing and small area accessory warehouse or storage
facilities to accommodate the in-house manufactured items with their associated
stocks of supplies are allowed.
   LIVESTOCK. For purposes of §
155.425 of this code, the term LIVESTOCK includes cattle, sheep, goats, swine,
horses, mules, donkeys, poultry and any other domestic animal or domestic fur
bearer raised or kept for profit.
   LOT. A tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown
on a subdivision plat that has been recorded in the office of the County
Recorder.
   LOT AREA. The area contained within the property lines of the individual
parcels of land shown on a subdivision plat or required by this chapter,
excluding any area within an existing or proposed public or private street
right-of-way, any area required as open space under this chapter, or the area
of a canal, waterway or ditch which is located within a lot or parcel.
   LOT AREA PER DWELLING UNIT, AVERAGE. The average lot area for all dwelling
units of a single type. Individual lots may be smaller or larger than the
average; provided, that the average size is maintained and that all other
standards of this chapter are met.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot or parcel abutting two intersecting or intercepting
streets where the interior angle of intersection or interception does not
exceed 1,350 degrees. CORNER LOTS shall have two front yards and two side
yards.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot lines
measured in the main direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE or DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot or parcel abutting two
parallel or approximately parallel streets.
   LOT, FLAG. The generally wide portion of a flag lot comprising the buildable
area of the lot.
   LOT HELD IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP. All contiguous land held in one ownership at
the time of the passage of this chapter, or at any time hereafter, whether or
not such land has been or is described separately, has separate chains of
title, is described on one or more than one property tax notice or is otherwise
divided on paper.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, LEGAL NONCONFORMING. A lot which was legally created prior to the
adoption of this
chapter.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT.
      (1)   A relocation of a lot line boundary between adjoining lots or
between a lot and adjoining parcels in accordance with UCA § 17-27a-608,
whether or not the lots are located in the same subdivision and with the
consent of the owners of record.
      (2)   The term does not mean a new boundary line that:
         (a)   Creates an additional lot; or
         (b)   Constitutes a subdivision.
      (3)    The term does not include a boundary line adjustment made by the
Department of Transportation.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. For an interior lot, the lot line adjoining the street. For
a corner lot or through lot, each lot line adjoining a street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. Ordinarily, that line of a lot which is opposite and most
distant from the front line of the lot. In the case of a triangular or gore
shaped lot, a line ten feet in length within the parcel parallel to and at a
maximum distance from the front lot line. In cases where this definition is
ambiguous, the Zoning Administrator shall designate the REAR LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front or rear lot line. (This
does not apply to any yard fronting on a street, which is by definition a
“front yard line.”)
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding the lot.
   LOT, PANHANDLE/POLE. The generally narrow portion of a flag lot that
connects the flag to the street and generally provides ingress/egress for the
lot.
   LOT, RESTRICTED. A lot having an average slope of 15% or more; or a lot
which does not contain at least 75 by 100 feet; or the minimum size of a lot
permitted in the zoning district where located, with an average slope of less
than 15%; or a lot which has vehicular ingress to the main building or
structure which, upon completion of construction on the site, has a slope of
15% or greater; or a lot subject to geologic hazards.
   LOT, UNRESTRICTED. A lot having an average slope of less than 15% and
containing a buildable area of at least 75 by 100 feet, with an average slope
of less than 15%, which buildable area is designated as such on the subdivision
plat in which the lot is located, if the average slope of the lot is greater
than 15%.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
the required front yard setback line or rear yard setback line, whichever is
shorter.
   MAIN USE OR BUILDING. The principal use which will occur on a lot or the
principal structure to be used by the principal use on a lot, to which all
other uses and structures are accessory.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. A map of the county which shows the existing and future
public street system, and which has been officially adopted by the Planning
Commission and governing body as the MAJOR STREET PLAN for the county.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A multisectional mobile home not exceeding two stories in
height and manufactured after June 15, 1976, which is subject to and complies
with the federal manufactured home construction and safety standards (42 U.S.C.
§ 5403), that when joined forms a residence for human occupancy that measures
20 by 40 feet or larger, and is designed to be installed on a permanent
foundation system which can be a permanent foundation wall.
   MARKET ANALYSIS. An economic analysis of the feasibility of a project.
   MASTER TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORTATION PLAN. The portion of the General Plan
which defines the future alignments of streets and their rights-of-way,
including maps or reports or both, which have been approved by the Planning
Commission and County Commission as provided in UCA §§ 17-27a-403 et seq., as
amended.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A division of at least 100 contiguous acres of
agricultural land to create one new lot that, after the division, is separate
from the remainder of the original 100 or more contiguous acres of agricultural
land, and which meets the requirements of this chapter.
   MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT. A development that includes residential and
nonresidential uses allowed in the zoning district, on the same site.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable unit, designed and constructed for
conveyance on roads and highways on its own chassis or on flatbed or other
trailers, and designed and constructed to be installed with or without a
permanent foundation for human occupancy as a residence which may include one
or more components that can be retracted for towing or transporting purposes,
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity, or two or more such units
separately towable or transportable but designed to be joined into one integral
unit, except that it does not include recreational vehicle, as defined in this
section.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A space designed and approved by the county for occupancy
by mobile homes and meeting all requirements of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land that has been planned and improved for
the placement of mobile homes for nontransient use and consisting of two or
more mobile home spaces, where the entire project is to be under single
ownership or management and meets all of the requirements of this chapter for
mobile home parks.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A space within a mobile home park designed and to be used
for the accommodation of one mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of the mobile home space which has been reserved
for the placement of the mobile home and its appurtenant structures or
additions.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and intended for residential
use where the lots are to be individually owned or leased and occupied by
mobile homes.
   MODERATE INCOME HOUSING. Housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the
median gross income for households of the same size in the county in which the
housing is located.
   MODULAR HOME. A permanent dwelling structure built in prefabricated units
which are assembled and erected on the site or at another location and brought
as a unit to the site; said MODULAR HOME is classed as a mobile home until it
is placed on a permanent foundation and complies with all governing Building
Codes.
   MONUMENT. A permanent survey marker established by the County Surveyor and/
or a survey marker set in accordance with the County Surveyor’s specifications
and referenced to county survey MONUMENTS.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings for the accommodation of transient
guests, comprising individual sleeping or living units and designed and located
to serve the motoring public.
   MUNICIPALITY. A city or town.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE COURSE. Those areas, varying in width, along streams,
creeks, ditches, gullies, springs or washes which function as natural drainage
channels.
   NATURAL RETENTION AREA. An area of poorly drained soils which lies along
stream channels or swales, or is adjacent to floodplain soils, which is subject
to periodic flooding.
   NON-AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT. A residential subdivision a commercial
subdivision or an industrial subdivision and/or a development established with
a development agreement.
   NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE. A structure that:
      (1)   Legally existed before the structure’s current land use
designation; and
      (2)   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does
not conform to the setback, height restrictions or other regulations, excluding
those regulations that govern the use of land.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of land that:
      (1)   Legally existed before the current land use designation;
      (2)   Has been maintained continuously since the time the land use
ordinance regulation governing the land changed; and
      (3)   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance.
   NURSING HOME (REST HOME, CONVALESCENT HOME). A home for the aged,
chronically ill or incurable persons in which three or more persons not of the
immediate family are received, kept or provided with food and shelter or care
for compensation; but not including hospitals, clinics or similar institutions
devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of the sick or injured.
   OFF-SITE FACILITIES. Improvements not on individual lots but generally
within the right-of- way and the boundaries of the development which they
serve, and as further outlined in this chapter.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. The space required to park one passenger vehicle,
which space shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
   ON-SITE FACILITIES. Construction or placement of the main building, and its
appurtenant improvements on a lot.
   OPEN SPACE. Land used for recreation, agriculture, resource protection,
amenity or buffers; is freely accessible to all residents of the development,
except in the case of agricultural lands where access may be restricted; and is
protected by the provisions of this chapter to ensure that it remains in such
use. OPEN SPACE does not include land occupied by nonrecreational buildings,
roads or road rights-of-way; nor does it include the yards or lots of single-
or multiple-family dwelling units or parking areas as required by the
provisions of this chapter. OPEN SPACE should be left in a natural state,
except in the case of recreation uses which may contain impervious surfaces.
Such impervious surfaces shall be included in the calculation of the impervious
surface ratio.
   OPEN SPACE, USABLE. USABLE OPEN SPACE shall be any portion of a lot or
building which meets all the following conditions:
      (1)   The open space shall be open to the sky or shall be open to view on
at least two sides;
      (2)   The space shall be readily accessible by foot traffic from the
dwelling unit to which it is accessory;
      (3)   If the space is provided on a balcony, roof or other facility above
grade, it shall have such protective devices as are deemed necessary by the
Zoning Administrator to ensure reasonably safe usage by children and adults;
and
      (4)   The space shall not be provided from any required front or side
yard, parking area or driveway space.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others, or in a
representative capacity (including, without limitation, an authorized agent,
executor or trustee) has legal or equitable title to any property.
   PARCEL. Any real property that is not a lot.
   PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.
      (1)   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining parcels adjusting
the mutual boundary, either by deed or by a boundary line agreement in
accordance with UCA § 17-27a-523, if no additional parcel is created and:
         (a)   None of the property identified in the agreement is a lot; or
         (b)   The adjustment is to the boundaries of a single person’s
parcels.
      (2)   PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT does not mean an adjustment of a parcel
boundary line that:
         (a)   Creates an additional parcel; or
         (b)   Constitutes a subdivision.
      (3)   PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT does not include a boundary line
adjustment made by the Department of Transportation.
   PARK. A playground or other area or open space providing opportunities for
active or passive recreational or leisure activities.
   PARK STRIP. The area located between a street right-of-way line and the edge
of asphalt or curb, but not including driveways, sidewalks or trails.
   PARKING FACILITY (PARKING LOTS, PARKING STRUCTURES). A building or open
area, other than a street, used for the parking of more than four automobiles
and available for public use, whether free, for compensation or accommodation
for clients or customers.
   PASSIVE SOLAR SYSTEM. A direct thermal system which utilizes the structure
of a building and its operable components to provide for collection, storage
and distribution of heating or cooling during the appropriate times of the
year, by utilizing the climate resources available at the site. It includes
those portions and components of a building that are expressly designed and
required for the collection, storage and distribution of solar and the
architectural and engineering design or system simulation necessary to balance
or optimize passive components.
   PEDESTRIANWAY (WALKWAY, CROSSWALK). A right-of-way designed for use by
pedestrians and not intended for use by motor vehicles of any kind. A
PEDESTRIANWAY may be located within or without a street right-of-way, at grade
or grade separated from vehicular traffic.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. An agreement, in a form approved by the county, that
ensures the integrity of required improvements throughout construction, such as
curb, gutter and sidewalk, and which is a requirement for the issuance of
building permits for dwellings in approved subdivisions.
   PERMANENT MONUMENT. Any structure of concrete, masonry and/or metal
permanently placed on or in the ground, including those expressly placed for
surveying reference, which meets the requirements of the county for permanent
monuments.
   PERMITTED USE. A use of land which is allowed within a particular district
without the necessity of obtaining a conditional use permit.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity, including a trustee, receiver,
assignee or similar representative of any of the foregoing.
   PETITION, VERIFIED. A petition by residents of the county, subscribed and
sworn to before a notary.
   PHYSICAL CONSTRAINTS ANALYSIS. Consists of a scaled graphical illustration
of the following real feature of the land: Property areas proposed for
development may be subject to a Sensitive Area District ordinance or
designation.
      (1)   The project will not consist of any building envelopes on natural
or human-made slopes over 25% grade without site-specific review by a geologist
and/or geotechnical engineer.
      (2)   The project will not show any structures within a distance from any
fault line that would jeopardize or compromise the health, safety or welfare of
persons or property as determined by a qualified professional geologist. A
fault line is the expression of a fault as seen at the surface of the earth. It
may be identified from geologic maps, excavations, air photos or other means.
Portions of it may be hidden by overlying erosion materials, soil, landslide
debris or other natural or human-made material. When hidden, the fault line may
be assumed to exist along the linear extension of a line between the ends of
two exposed portions of the fault line.
      (3)   The project will not consist of activities on or disturbance of any
wetland areas, except as approved by the Army Corps of Engineers.
      (4)   The project will not contain any platted lot within any landslide
hazard areas as determined by a geologist and/or geotechnical engineer unless
approved by the Planning Commission as part of the open space area.
         (a)   A landslide hazard area is an area where landslides are known to
exist. These may be active (currently moving) or inactive.
         (b)   Any disturbance of the ground or irrigation in a landslide
hazard area will be subject to extensive geologic review prior to project
approval. This review must include mapping of the limits of known landslides as
well as the depth to the glide surface of the landslide if any structures are
located in the potential path of a landslide or are near the head of the
landslide.
         (c)   There may also be requirements for monitoring soil saturation
and earth movement.
         (d)   Known landslides will be recorded on the plat for the
development.
         (e)   All owners of structures within the landslide area will be
encouraged to carry landslide hazard insurance.
         (f)   Roads will avoid known landslides. If roads in landslide hazard
areas become dedicated to the county, they may become part of a special
district as determined by the County Commission and may bear a higher
maintenance fee than other roads in the county due to the anticipated higher
cost of maintenance. Any higher fees collected for maintenance will remain in
the Special District Fund to cover road costs of potential future catastrophic
events in the district.
         (g)   Septic systems will not be allowed on any landslide or near a
landslide where it could cause the landslide to be saturated with water as
determined by the geologist or geotechnical engineer.
         (h)   Potential landslide areas are those areas where landslides are
not currently known to exist, but which have similar geologic conditions
(surface geology, dip of geologic formations, steepness of slope and the like)
as landslide areas. The geologic review will include evaluation of potential
for landslides. Landslides may be expected to be triggered in these areas under
the right combination of existing conditions combined with human-made changes.
Potential landslide areas may also carry special conditions on land uses (i.e.,
watering restrictions, septic tank restrictions, drainage requirements and
setbacks from erosion scarps).
      (5)   The project will not consist of any development within any flood
hazard area, except as provided in local, state and federal Building Codes.
      (6)   The project will not consist of any development within any shallow
groundwater hazard areas (i.e., areas where groundwater is, during its highest
point in the water cycle year, within two feet of the ground surface or within
two feet of the deepest ground disturbance of any structure), areas of springs
or seeps or surface water areas. Under certain circumstances when properly
engineered, structures may build in shallow groundwater areas upon approved
fill material if it is sufficient to bring the structure to the minimum
elevation above the shallow groundwater. Any structures built on fill must have
specific approval prior to any disturbance of the ground or adding of fill
material. Approval will be subject to adequate engineering evaluation and shall
contain a plan to protect the groundwater from contamination during and after
construction.
      (7)   The project will not consist of any development within any areas
that are recommended locations for detention basins or established or proposed
road and utility corridors.
      (8)   The project will avoid any development that will protrude above any
ridgelines, except as provided in a ridgeline ordinance, if existing.
      (9)   The project application will include a preliminary geotechnical
evaluation of the site.
      (10)   The project applicant must include a concept plan showing the
layout of roads, lots and open spaces.
      (11)   All proposed density for projects shall be determined by the
Planning Commission and county legislative body.
   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT. The department of the county
authorized by the county to oversee the Zoning Administrator and the Building
Official, and to carry out the general land use and development goals and
policies of the county.
   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DIRECTOR. The individual appointed by the
County Commission to oversee the administration and functions of the Planning
and Development Services Department, and/or his or her designee.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Morgan County, Utah.
   PLAT. An instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map or
other graphical representation of lands that a licensed professional land
surveyor makes and prepares in accordance with UCA §§ 17-27a-603 or 57-8-13.
   POTENTIAL RESIDENTIAL AREA. Areas within a PC-Zoning District Overlay that
are proposed to be developed as multi-family or single-family dwellings.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The initial formal plat of a proposed land division or
subdivision showing information and features required by the provisions of this
chapter.
   PRIME AGRICULTURAL SOILS. Areas of soils most suited for agriculture, those
in capability units I, II or III, as indicated in the soil survey prepared by
the soil conservation service which encompasses the county.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or a building (as distinguished from an
accessory use).
   PRIVATE LANE. A type of private access which, in order to qualify as
required frontage and access, shall meet the standards defined by §§
155.385 through
155.450 of this code.
   PRIVATE NONPROFIT RECREATIONAL GROUNDS AND FACILITIES. Nonprofit
recreational grounds and facilities operated by a nonprofit corporation,
association or group.
   PROFESSIONAL TEAM, QUALIFIED. An individual or group of individuals
qualified by virtue of training, experience, state licensing where appropriate
and membership in professional associations which pass upon qualifications
prior to admittance to membership. A determination of whether or not a team is
qualified, in the sense explained above, shall be made solely by the Planning
Commission.
   PROTECTION STRIP. A strip of land bordering a subdivision, or a street
within a subdivision showing information and features required by the
provisions of this chapter.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   The federal government;
      (2)   The state;
      (3)   A county, municipality, school district, local district, special
service district or other political subdivision of the state; or
      (4)   A charter school.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A hearing at which members of the public are provided a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
   PUBLIC MEETING. A meeting that is required to be open to the public under
the Open and Public Meetings Act, UCA § 52-4.
   PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC USE. A use operated by a governmental or private
nonprofit agency having the primary purpose of serving the general public,
including public and private schools or universities (see definitions of
SCHOOL, PUBLIC and SCHOOL, PRIVATE), recreational facilities, cemeteries,
churches or other religious facilities (see definition of CHURCH), charitable
or philanthropic institutions or other similar uses.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITIES. For the public convenience,
certain infrastructure, including streets, utilities and utility facilities,
radio and television transmitting towers and stations and facilities determined
to be in the interest of the health, safety and welfare of the public, such as
police, fire, ambulance substations and animal control facilities, may be
allowed to serve various areas of the community as essential facilities.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. Streets, curb, gutter, sidewalk, water and sanitary
sewer lines, storm sewers, flood control facilities and other similar
facilities which are required to be dedicated to the county in connection with
subdivision, conditional use, site plan or other land use approval.
   RECEIVING ZONE. An unincorporated area of a county that the county
designates, by ordinance, as an area in which an owner of land may receive a
transferable development right.
   RECORD OF SURVEY MAP. A map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with
UCA §§ 10-9a-603, 17-23-17, 17-27a-603 or 57-8-13.
   RECREATION DWELLING. A dwelling designed for limited rather than primary
occupancy and generally located adjacent to or with easy access to recreational
areas. The primary purpose for the construction of such a dwelling is to
provide shelter during those limited periods of time when recreation is sought
in the adjacent areas. RECREATIONAL DWELLINGS shall not use the same minimum
lot area used to qualify for the minimum lot area of a main dwelling.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RECREATIONAL COACH). A vehicle, with or without motive
power, designed and constructed to travel on public streets, and designed for
use as a human habitation of a temporary and recreational nature.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (TRAVEL TRAILER PARK). Any area or tract of land
or a separately designated section within a mobile home park where lots are
rented or held out for rent to one or more owners or users of recreational
vehicles.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE. A plot of ground within a recreational vehicle
park designated and intended for the accommodation of one recreational vehicle.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY. The form of energy whose supply is natural, inexhaustible
and not dependent upon fossil fuel supplies. Examples include residential solar
heat, wind power, geothermal power and many other supply sources.
   REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS. Improvements which are required to be installed and
guaranteed in conjunction with an approved subdivision or land use permit.
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS may be public or private, on-site or off-site, as
necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter.
   RESIDENTIAL CLUSTERING. Is the grouping of lots within a subdivision closer
together than what may normally be permitted in order to provide an opportunity
to preserve land for open space, recreation, or agricultural purposes and
reduce impact to the area by requiring less infrastructure.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS. A single-family or multiple-family
dwelling unit that meets the requirements of §
155.367 of this code and any ordinance adopted under authority of this chapter.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS does not include a healthcare
facility.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS. A single-family or multiple-
family dwelling unit that meets the requirements of §
155.367 of this code and any ordinance adopted under authority of that section.
   RESIDUAL LAND. The land which does not meet the minimum standards for a lot
and therefore must be attached and become part of another parcel which does or
will conform to lot minimum standards or be attached to public land for public
purposes.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The portion of land dedicated to public use for street and/or
utility purposes or maintained in private use for similar purposes.
   ROADWAY WIDTH. For a street with battered or roll curb to back of curb,
otherwise the width of the actual paved surface.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE. A school which is operated by a quasi-public or private
group, individual or organization, for profit or nonprofit, and which has a
curriculum similar to that provided in any public school whether or not a
complete educational curriculum.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC. A school operated by a school district, charter school or
other public agency in the state.
   SECONDARY WATER SYSTEM. Any system which is designed and intended to
provide, transport and store water used for watering of crops, lawns,
shrubberies, flowers and other nonculinary uses.
   SECURITY SURVEILLANCE. When security is a paramount concern to a project, it
may require continuous and comprehensive surveillance of the private streets if
access is only through a guarded gate. Under these circumstances, it is in the
interests of the public to vary requirements sufficient to permit total control
of a manager.
   SENDING ZONE. An unincorporated area of a county that the county designates,
by ordinance, as an area from which an owner of land may transfer a
transferable development right.
   SENSITIVE AREA. An area of land which contains environmental or geological
hazards, which may also be subject to additional regulations in this chapter
and other laws.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. Any entity that provides services for water, sewer,
electricity, natural gas or other service to a specified area.
   SETBACKS. The minimum required distance on a lot defining a front, side and
rear yard in each applicable zone as measured perpendicularly from the
appropriate property lot line to the nearest building foundation or structural
footing, including permanent porches and stairways, except as modified by the
definition of YARD, as defined in this section.
   SIDEWALK. A passageway or pathways for pedestrians, excluding motor
vehicles.
   SIGN. A presentation or representation of words, letters, figures, designs,
pictures or colors, publicly displayed so as to give notice relative to a
person, a business, an article of merchandise, a service, an assemblage, a
solicitation or a request for aid; also, the SIGN structure supports, lighting
systems and any attachments, ornaments or other features used to draw the
attention of observers.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. A sign which involves motion or rotation of any part,
created by artificial means, or which displays flashing, revolving or
intermittent lights.
   SIGN AREA. The entire background area of a sign upon which copy could be
placed. In computing area of a sign background, only that face or faces which
can be seen from one direction at one time shall be counted. The supporting
incidental structure of the sign shall not be used in computing SIGN AREA.
   SIGN, AWNING. A sign which is integral with or placed on a translucent
awning or other “fabric” covering a framework and which is backlit.
   SIGN, CANOPY. A sign which is mounted on and supported by a canopy and may
be found either above the canopy or hanging beneath the canopy, but in all
cases mounted perpendicular to the building.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign on which the advertising message, lettering or
other graphic representation is intermittently changed by rotation or means
similar thereto.
   SIGN, FASCIA, FLAT OR WALL. A sign which is in any manner affixed to any
exterior wall of a building and which projects not more than 18 inches from the
face and does not extend more than six inches above the parapet, eaves or
building facade. A FASCIA SIGN may also be mounted above or below a canopy, not
necessarily flush with the wall, but in all cases only one side has copy. In
the manner described for the fascia unit, individual letter units may also be
installed as opposed to a box type sign. FLAT OR WALL SIGNS may be painted or
applied to the wall without projection from the wall.
   SIGN, FLASHING. A sign which contains or is illuminated by lights which are
intermittently cut on or off, change in intensity or otherwise create the
illusion of flashing or movement.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign which is supported by one or more upright
columns, poles or braces, in or upon the ground.
   SIGN, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the nearest finished
grade to the top of the sign, excluding any superficial trim. In the case of a
roof sign, the maximum height shall be measured from the roofline or the
parapet level, if applicable, at the location of such sign.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION AND INFORMATION. A sign displayed to indicate the name
or nature of a building, or of a use.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign in which a source of light is used in order to
make the message readable. This definition shall include internally and
externally lighted signs.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. Any sign attached to or made an integral part of a marquee.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign which advertises a product or service not
available on the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign which advertises products or services available on
the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN ORDINANCE. The sign ordinance of the county (§
155.368 of this code).
   SIGN, PROJECTING WALL. A sign which is affixed to an exterior wall or
building or structure, and which projects more than 18 inches from the building
or structure wall, and which does not extend above the parapet, eaves or
building facade of the building upon which it is placed.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign which is erected on or above the roofline of a building
and which is wholly or partially supported by the building.
   SIGN, ROTATING. A sign which revolves 3,600 degrees with continuing motion.
   SITE. A parcel or parcels of land intended to have one or more buildings or
intended to be subdivided into one or more lots.
   SITE AREA. All land area within the site as defined in the deed. Area shall
be determined from an actual survey rather than from a deed description.
   SITE PLAN. A document or map that may be required by a county during a
preliminary review preceding the issuance of a building permit to demonstrate
that an owners or developer’s proposed development activity meets a land use
requirement.
   SKYSPACE. The portion of the sky that must remain unobstructed for a solar
collector to operate effectively. The SKYSPACE can be measured for specific
time of year, use and location. (See also definition of SOLAR ACCESS.)
   SMALL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of eight or fewer lots which meets the
requirements of this chapter.
   SOLAR ACCESS. The availability of sunlight to solar collectors and solar
energy systems. SOLAR ACCESS to a site depends upon the specific system type
and most often demands rooftop, south wall, south lot or detached collector
protection.
   SOLAR ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. Includes active, passive and photovoltaic
solar systems which when placed on a structure supply energy to that structure.
    SOLAR GREENHOUSE, SUNSPACE, SUN PARLOR. An attached space to a building or
residence which may provide heat and/or food to users as part of a passive
solar energy system.
   SPECIAL DISTRICT. All entities established under authority of UCA Title 17A,
and any other governmental or quasi-governmental entity that is not a county,
municipality, school district or unit of the state.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building for the keeping of livestock
owned by the occupants of the premises and not kept for hire, remuneration or
sale.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. A detached accessory building where horses are boarded and/
or kept for hire.
   STEEP SLOPES. Areas where the average slope exceeds 8% which, because of
this slope, are subject to high rates of stormwater runoff, and therefore,
erosion.
   STORAGE UNITS. A facility under single ownership typically used to store the
private goods of multiple tenants; not designed with utility services to each
unit. A STORAGE UNIT will meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Less than two acres;
      (2)   Doors are visually buffered from view;
      (3)   Stormwater, access, parking and so forth detailed on the site plan;
      (4)   Landscaping approved and bonded;
      (5)   Residence/manager living by conditional use permit;
      (6)   Setbacks per zone district;
      (7)   Architecture and layout must blend in with surroundings; and
      (8)   Water, sewer and phone services are not provided to each unit.
   STORM, 100-YEAR. A storm event of the magnitude that has a 1% chance of
occurrence in any given year.
   STORM, TEN-YEAR. A storm having a 10% chance of annual occurrence.
   STORY, HALF. A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which are on at least two opposite exterior walls, do not extend more
than four feet above the floor of such story and the ceiling area of which does
not exceed two-thirds of the floor area of the same half story.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street, existing or proposed, which serves or is
intended to serve as a major trafficway and is designated in the General Plan
or master transportation plan as a limited access highway, major street parkway
or other equivalent term to identify those streets comprising the basic
structure of the street plan.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street, existing or proposed, which is the main means
of access to the major street system from local streets.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A minor terminal street provided with a turnaround of a
minimum radius as specified by adopted Construction and Fire Code standards.
   STREET, FREEWAY. A street with a fully controlled access designed to link
major destination points. A FREEWAY is designed for high-speed traffic with a
minimum of four travel lanes and is owned by the state. In the county,
Interstate 84 is the only street considered a FREEWAY.
   STREET, HALF. The portion of a street within or providing frontage to lots
within a subdivision comprising at least one-half of the minimum required
right-of-way on which improvements are constructed and in accord with at least
one-half of an approved typical street section, where the additional needed
right-of-way width is intended to be obtained in the future from the abutting
property owner prior to development.
   STREET, LOCAL. A minor street which provides access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A right-of-way which has been reserved by dedication unto
the subdivider, lot owners or homeowners’ association to be used as a private
access to serve property, in accordance with this chapter. All PRIVATE STREETS
and rights-of-way shall be approved by the county and maintained by the
subdivider or other private entity. PRIVATE STREETS are required to meet the
county’s right-of-way and construction standards for public roads.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A public right-of-way, including a public highway, public
avenue, public boulevard, public parkway, public road, public lane, public
alley, public viaduct, public subway, public tunnel, public bridge, public
byway, other public transportation easement or other public way.
   STREET, TERMINAL. An improved street or subsystem of streets with only one
point of connection to the overall street system.
   STREET TREE. An approved tree placed either within or adjacent to the
county’s public rights-of-way or private street sections. STREET TREES adjacent
to public rights-of-way are considered a type of public improvement.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires fixed location on
the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed location upon the ground.
Includes “building.”
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who undertakes to create a subdivision or has
property interest within a subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be
divided into two or more lots or other division of land for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or development either on
the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and conditions.
      (1)   SUBDIVISION includes:
         (a)   The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat or other recorded instrument,
regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or
lot; and
         (b)   Except as provided in this chapter, divisions of land for
residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for
commercial, agricultural and industrial purposes.
      (2)   SUBDIVISION does not include:
         (a)   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes;
         (b)   A boundary line agreement recorded with the County Recorder’s
office between owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in
accordance with UCA § 17-27a-523 if no new lot is created;
         (c)   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
            1.   Revising the legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one
legal description encompassing all such parcels; or
            2.   Joining a lot to a parcel.
         (d)   A bona fide division or partition of land in a county other than
a first-class county for the purpose of siting, on one or more of the resulting
separate parcels:
            1.   An electrical transmission line or a substation;
            2.   A natural gas pipeline or a regulation station; or
            3.   An unmanned telecommunications, microwave, fiber optic,
electrical or other utility service regeneration, transformation,
retransmission or amplification facility.
         (e)   A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with UCA §§ 17-
27a-523 and 17-27a-608 if:
            1.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the
adjustment; and
            2.   The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use
ordinance.
         (f)   A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the
deed or other instrument states in writing that the division:
            1.   Is in anticipation of future land use approvals on the parcel
or parcels;
            2.   Does not confer any land use approvals; and
            3.   Has not been approved by the land use authority.
         (g)   A parcel boundary adjustment;
         (h)   A lot line adjustment;
         (i)   A road, street or highway dedication plat;
         (j)   A deed or easement for a road, street or highway purpose; or
         (k)   Any other division of land authorized by law.
   SUBDIVISION AMENDMENT. An amendment to a recorded subdivision in accordance
with UCA § 17-27a-608 that:
      (1)   Vacates all or a portion of the subdivision;
      (2)   Alters the outside boundary of the subdivision;
      (3)   Changes the number of lots within the subdivision;
      (4)   Alters a public right-of-way, a public easement or public
infrastructure within the subdivision; or
      (5)   Alters a common area or other common amenity within the
subdivision.
   SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE. Evidence that:
      (1)   Is beyond a scintilla; and
      (2)   A reasonable mind would accept as adequate to support a conclusion.
   TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. The Zoning Administrator shall designate and
appoint certain professionals, officials and other competent resource persons
to serve as advisors meeting as a Technical Review Committee to assist for the
purpose of evaluating applications and making recommendations for action from
the land use authority.
   TEMPORARY USE. A use not allowed as a permitted, conditional or accessory
use where located and which is established for a limited time with the intent
to discontinue the use upon expiration of the time period authorized by a
temporary use permit.
   TRAIL. A path, hard- or soft-surfaced, intended for public use for
recreation and/or alternative transportation methods, and which may also
provide access to city, county, state or federal open lands or recreation
areas.
   TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHT. A right to develop and use land that
originates by an ordinance that authorizes a landowner in a designated sending
zone to transfer land use rights from a designated sending zone to a designated
receiving zone.
   UNINCORPORATED. The area outside of the incorporated boundaries of cities
and towns.
   URBAN SERVICES. Those services normally associated with urban living,
including, but not limited to, electricity, natural gas, streets, schools,
culinary water, sewage collection and treatment facilities and police and fire
protection.
   UTILITIES AND UTILITY FACILITIES. Includes facilities, lines and rights-of-
way for culinary water, pressure and gravity irrigation, sanitary sewer,
drainage and flood control, electrical, streetlights, natural gas,
telecommunications, microwave, fiber optics, cable television and telephone
transmission and underground conduits and junction boxes.
   VICINITY MAP (LOCATION MAP). A map or drawing, not necessarily to scale,
showing where a subdivision, or proposed subdivision, commercial development or
other property is located.
   VICINITY PLAN. A map or drawing, to scale, of any area proposed for
development, showing existing and proposed streets, buildings, public
facilities and utilities within the general influence area of the proposed
project, such as one-mile radius; boundaries of zoning districts, taxing
districts and other special districts on and in the immediate vicinity of the
land proposed for project; watercourses, impoundments, streams, springs, wells
and areas subject to continuous or occasional flooding on and in the immediate
vicinity of the land proposed for project and significant vegetative patterns
on and in the immediate vicinity of the land proposed for development.
   VIEW CORRIDOR. The viewable area or space between buildings that is
protected during development for the purpose of protecting scenic views.
   VISION CLEARANCE TRIANGLE (SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE, CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE).
See §
155.315 of this code.
   WARRANTY PERIOD. The period of time after the date of initial acceptance of
required subdivision improvements or required repairs to subdivision
improvements. The standard WARRANTY PERIOD shall be one year. The county may
increase the WARRANTY PERIOD to two years, if the county determines for good
cause that a lesser period would be inadequate to protect the public health,
safety and welfare due to substantial evidence of prior poor performance of the
applicant, unstable soil conditions within the subdivision or development area
or extreme fluctuations in climatic conditions that would render impracticable
the discovery of substandard or defective performance within a one-year period.
   WATER AND SEWER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT. Any water or sewer improvement
districts existing or hereinafter organized which have jurisdiction over the
land proposed for a land use application or subdivision.
   WATER SUPPLIER. Any water system, whether public or private, providing
wholesale or retail water service to the general public, including water for
indoor culinary use, outdoor irrigation use and any other beneficial use such
as livestock water, snowmaking, industrial use and the like, including service
by water systems to areas outside of their corporate boundaries or service
areas.
   WETLANDS. Areas known as marshes, swamps or wetlands, including all areas
greater than one-fourth acre where standing water is retained for a portion of
the year and unique vegetation has adapted to the area, or as regulated by the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
   WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE. A geographical area where structures and other
development meets or intermingles with wildland or vegetative fuels.
   WILL SERVE LETTER. A letter from a utility company which guarantees its
service, with or without conditions and explains available capacity and ability
and/or capacity to serve the proposed project, and a plan describing how the
applicable utilities will be extended to the development.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS. Includes structures and all apparatus to
utilize wind to drive generator.
   YARD. A required open space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as follows:
      (1)   Fences;
      (2)   Accessory buildings in a rear or side YARD (restrictions in this
chapter apply);
      (3)   Uncovered decks less than 18 inches in height from the finished
ground surface that project into a residential rear YARD not more than 15 feet;
or uncovered decks over walkout basements that are less than 18 inches in
height from the finished first story level that project into a residential rear
YARD not more than 15 feet;
      (4)   The ordinary projections of windows where the projection is above
the finished ground surface, roofs, cornices, chimneys, flues, other
cantilevered structures when part of the main building, nonstructural uncovered
stairways and porches and other ornamental features which project into a YARD
not more than three feet;
      (5)   Open or lattice enclosed exterior stairways, located in a
Commercial or Manufacturing Zone, projecting into a YARD not more than five
feet; and
      (6)   Structures less than 18 inches in height from the finished ground
surface.
   YARD, FRONT. A space on the same lot with a building, between the front line
of the building and the front lot line and extending across the full width of
the lot. The “depth” of the FRONT YARD is the minimum distance between the
front lot line and the front line of the building. (Note: On a corner lot,
there are two FRONT YARDS.)
   YARD, REAR. A space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line
of the building and the rear lot line and extending the full width of the lot.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the county to perform the
duties and responsibilities of Zoning Administrator, as defined by this
chapter. Unless otherwise designated by the Planning and Development Services
Director or County Commission, the Planning and Development Services Director
or his or her designee shall perform this function.
   ZONING MAP. The official map of the county which designates the zoning
classifications on areas of the unincorporated territory of the county which
regulates and restricts the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair or use of buildings or structures or the use of land all as set forth in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 10-17, passed 12-14-
2010; Ord. 11-03, passed 3-1-2011; Ord. 11-10, passed 6-21-2011; Ord. 11-11,
passed 9-20-2011; Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011; Ord. 11-16, passed 12-6-2011;
Ord. 12-01, passed 3-6-2012; Ord. 12-02, passed 5-1-2012; Ord. 12-09, passed 9-
18-2012; Ord. 14-08, passed 12-4-2014; Ord. 15-02, passed 3-17-2015; Ord. 16-
02, passed 3-15-2016; Ord. 17-01, passed 2-7-2017; Ord. 18-04, passed 5-15-
2018; Ord. 19-07, passed 12-3-2019; Ord. 20-02, passed 2-18-2020; Ord. 20-10,
passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 20-11, passed 9-1-2020; Ord. 21-09, passed 7-6-2021;
Ord. 23-04, passed 4-18-2023; Ord. 23-19, passed 12-19-2023; Ord. 24-06, passed
3-19-2024; Ord. 24-17, passed 8-6-2024)
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.020 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR AUTHORITY AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the governing body. In
the event of a failure to designate another party to hold said position, the
duties of the Zoning Administrator shall be discharged by the governing body.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized to enforce this chapter
and all provisions thereof and shall do so by any legal means available to him
or her, including, but not limited to, the following.
      (1)   Building permit issuance. Advise the Building Official on the
issuance of building permits. When the Zoning Administrator gives written
notification to the Building Official that an intended use, building or
structure would be in violation of this chapter, such written notification
shall be a presumption of illegality and the Building Official shall not issue
a building permit for such use, building or structure. (If the offices of
Building Official and Zoning Administrator are held concurrently by one person,
this person shall detail the violation in writing on the permit refusal
notification.)
      (2)   Inspections for compliance. Inspect the uses of buildings,
structures or land to determine compliance with this chapter. Such inspections
shall be made at reasonable times.
      (3)   Notices of violation. Issue notices of violation wherever buildings
or lands are being used contrary to the provisions of this chapter. (This shall
be done by serving notice in writing on any person engaged in said use and
posting such notice on the premises.)
      (4)   Report violations. Inform the governing body of all code violations
and recommend specific courses of action with regard to each violation.
      (5)   Records maintained. Maintain a file of title violations and action
to be taken by the governing body on such violations.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.021 ZONING REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Right to regulate. The County Commission may enact a zoning ordinance
establishing regulations for land use and development that furthers the intent
of this chapter.
   (B)   Preparation and adoption of zoning regulations.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall prepare and recommend to the County
Commission a proposed zoning ordinance, including both the full text of the
zoning ordinance and maps, that represents the Planning Commission’s
recommendations for zoning all or any part of the area within the county.
      (2)   The County Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
zoning ordinance recommended to it by the Planning Commission in compliance
with UCA § 17-27a-205.
      (3)   After public hearing the County Commission may:
         (a)   Adopt the zoning ordinance as proposed;
         (b)   Amend the zoning ordinance and adopt or reject the zoning
ordinance as amended; or
         (c)   Reject the ordinance.
   (C)   Amendments and rezoning. The County Commission shall comply with the
procedure specified in §
155.023 of this code, in preparing and adopting an amendment to this chapter or
the zoning map.
   (D)   Temporary regulations.
      (1)   The County Commission may, without a public hearing, enact
ordinances establishing temporary zoning regulations for any part or all of the
area within the county. Those temporary zoning regulations may prohibit or
regulate the erection, construction, reconstruction or alteration of any
building or structure or subdivision approval.
      (2)   The County Commission shall establish a period of limited effect
for the ordinances not to exceed six months.
      (3)   There shall be no claim for damages based on a temporary moratorium
under this division (D).
   (E)   Zoning districts.
      (1)   The County Commission may divide the territory over which it has
jurisdiction into zoning districts of a number, shape and area that it
considers appropriate to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
      (2)   Within those zoning districts, the County Commission may regulate
and restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or
use of buildings and structures and the use of land.
      (3)   The County Commission shall ensure that the regulations are uniform
for each class or kind of buildings throughout each district, but the
regulations in one district may differ from those in other districts.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. 13-03, passed 4-16-2013)
§ 155.022 AMENDMENTS TO TITLE AND ZONING MAP.
   The County Commission may amend this chapter, including the zoning map, but
only in accordance with the following procedure.
   (A)   The County Commission may instruct staff to study and make
recommendations for amendments to this chapter or the zoning map in response to
changes in policy or conditions generally within the county. Staff shall
forward a recommended amendment to the Planning Commission for their
consideration. The Planning Commission shall review and make recommendation to
the County Commission regarding the proposed amendment pursuant to §
155.023(D) of this code.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may instruct staff to study and make
recommendations for amendments to this chapter in response to changes in policy
or conditions generally within the county. Staff shall forward a recommended
amendment to the Planning Commission for its consideration. The Planning
Commission shall review and make recommendation to the County Commission
regarding the proposed amendment pursuant to §
155.023(D) of this code.
   (C)   Any property owner may initiate an amendment to this chapter or the
zoning map, as long as they are affected by the proposed amendment, by
submitting a complete application to the Planning and Development Services
Department in accordance with §
155.023(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) (Ord. 13-03, passed 4-16-2013)
§ 155.023 PROCEDURES FOR AMENDMENTS AND REZONINGS.
   (A)   Application. For any property owner-initiated amendment to this
chapter or the zoning map, the owner seeking such amendment shall submit a
complete application to the Planning and Development Services Department on a
form provided by the Zoning Administrator and in accordance with the following
submittal requirements:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant’s agent, if any;
      (2)   The name and address of every person or company the applicant
represents. For site-specific applications, the name and address of all owners
of the property;
      (3)   The requested amendment and reasons supporting the request;
      (4)   If the proposed amendment requires a change to the zoning map, the
application shall include:
         (a)   An accurate property map showing present and proposed zoning;
         (b)   All abutting properties showing present zoning; and
         (c)   An accurate legal description and an approximate common address
of the area proposed to be rezoned.
      (5)   If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of this
chapter, the application shall include chapter and section references and a
draft of the proposed text;
      (6)   A nonreturnable amendment application fee; and
      (7)   A sufficient number of plain white legal-size envelopes, addressed
to the required recipients specified in §
155.032 of this code, and with proper postage affixed.
   (B)   County initiated amendments. For County Commission or Planning
Commission initiated amendments, staff shall prepare an application pursuant to
relevant requirements of this chapter, which shall not have a fee requirement.
   (C)   Public notice. The county shall prepare and give notice of public
hearings to consider such amendment as provided by UCA § 17-27a-205 and §
155.032(E) of this code.
   (D)   Planning Commission review and recommendation.
      (1)   Upon receiving a recommendation from staff regarding an amendment
to this chapter or the zoning map, and after holding the required public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall review the amendment and prepare its
recommendation. The Planning Commission may recommend approval, approval with
modifications or denial of the proposed amendment and shall submit its
recommendation to the County Commission for review and decision.
      (2)   Changed or changing conditions make the proposed amendment
reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes stated in this chapter.
   (E)   County Commission review. The County Commission shall schedule and
hold a public hearing on the application as provided in §
155.031 of this code. Following the public hearing the County Commission may
approve, approve with modifications or deny the proposed amendment. Prior to
making a decision that goes contrary to the Planning Commission’s
recommendation, the County Commission may, but is not obligated to, remand the
amendment to the Planning Commission with a request for another recommendation
with additional or specific considerations. The Planning Commission shall
review such request as specified in division (D) above.
   (F)   Approval standards. A decision to amend the text of this chapter or
the zoning map is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the
County Commission and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making
an amendment, the County Commission and Planning Commission should consider the
following factors:
      (1)   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives
and policies of the county’s General Plan;
      (2)   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall
character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
      (3)   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect
adjacent property; and
      (4)   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the
subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
water supplies and wastewater and refuse collection.
   (G)   Reconsideration. Where an application for zoning amendment has been
denied, the Planning Commission and the County Commission shall not review the
same zoning amendment application within two years of a denial unless there is
a substantial change of conditions since the earlier application. A new
application, with applicable fee, shall be required and processed in accordance
with the procedure outlined in this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) (Ord. 13-03, passed 4-16-2013; Ord. 18-07, passed 11-13-
2018)
§ 155.024 BUILDING PERMIT; SITE PLAN REQUIRED.
   An application for a building or use permit shall be made to the county’s
Building Official and shall include a site plan, written acknowledgment from an
authorized representative of the local Fire District where the building or use
is to take place that the Fire District is aware of the proposed building, and
that all applicable impact fees authorized by law have been paid, and such
other information as may be required by county ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5)
§ 155.025 BUILDING, LAND USE AND OCCUPANCY PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. No building or structure shall be constructed,
reconstructed, altered or moved, and no land shall be used, except after the
issuance of a building, land use and occupancy permit for the same by the
Building Official.
   (B)   Compliance required prior to issuance. Building, use and occupancy
permits shall not be granted for the construction or alteration of any building
or structure, for the moving or removal of a building onto or from a lot, or
for the use or occupancy of a building or land, if such structure,
construction, alteration, moving, use or occupancy would be in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Report required. An occupancy permit shall not be issued until the
Zoning Administrator and Building Official shall have filed on record a report
finding that the structures and intended uses are in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, and specifically, as to location and completion of
both off-site (curb, gutter, sidewalk, paving, utilities, fences, ditches and
the like) and on-site (buildings and the like) improvements.
   (D)   Inspection and approval prior to occupancy. Buildings and structures
requiring a building permit pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
not be occupied nor put into use until the county Building Official has
inspected such building or structure, finds compliance with this chapter and
the Building Code of the county, and gives a written certificate of occupancy
and use to the owner or his or her agent to occupy and/or use the building or
structure in the manner approved by the issuance of a valid building permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6)
§ 155.026 CONSULTING FEES PAID BY APPLICANT.
   (A)   Requirements. Upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission as
provided in division (C) below, the governing body may require any applicant
applying for a permit or conditional use permit for any development or project
set forth in this chapter, including, but not limited to, any application for a
development, or any project that would require an amendment to the county’s
General Plan, to enter into a written agreement with the county wherein the
applicant agrees to pay for all reasonable consulting fees of one or more
consultants retained by the county and determined to be proper and necessary in
the interests of the health, safety and welfare of the people of the county and
in light of the limited resources available to the county. The consultants
shall be used to review and report on any aspect of an application or project
requirement of this chapter for a permit or a conditional use permit, including
an application for a development. Consultants may include, but are limited to,
planners and engineers approved by the Planning Commission. Applicants will not
be charged in excess of standard industry fees. Total fees charged to
applicants may be up to, but shall not exceed, 5% of the total fair market
value of the proposed project.
   (B)   Agreement; financial accounting. The agreement will outline that a
deposit of funds by the applicant, in an amount to be determined by the
Planning Commission after giving due consideration to the nature and scope of
the development or project and the financial ability of the applicant, will be
submitted to the County Treasurer, to be held in a trust. The county will then
retain the necessary and recommended consultants and pay them directly from
this account. The Planning Commission will review each invoice submitted by a
consultant for work completed and for reasonableness of fees. Each invoice duly
approved by the Planning Commission shall be submitted to the County Treasurer
for payment. The County Treasurer will monitor and make all disbursements from
this account based on invoices approved by the Planning Commission. Upon
written request, the County Treasurer shall provide the applicant with an
accounting of funds dispersed under this account. The agreement will further
describe the process for the deposit of additional funds by the applicant when
the account has been nearly depleted. If additional funds are not deposited,
the county reserves the right to stop all work on the review and/or approval of
the application upon written notice to the applicant, or as otherwise specified
in the agreement. The agreement will state that the funds may only be used to
review the applicant’s development or project, and that no funds will be
returned to the applicant, except those remaining after all approved invoices
have been paid.
   (C)   Criteria. The Planning Commission will consider the following criteria
and make appropriate findings when determining whether to recommend for
approval by the governing body the services of one or more independent
consultants:
      (1)   The nature, scope, duration and technical complexities of the
development or project;
      (2)   The overall impact the development or project will have to the
health, safety and welfare of the county, including, but not limited to,
environmental impact, fiscal impact, social, educational or historical impact,
demand impact on county services, future growth impact and the like; and
      (3)   The limited resources of the county, including, but not limited to,
personnel, expertise and/or fiscal resources.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7) (Ord. 11-16, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 155.027 INACTIVE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Conditions. Applications before the Zoning Administrator, Planning
Commission, County Commission or appeal authority shall be deemed inactive and
procedurally denied under the following conditions.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator, or assignee, determines that the
application is incomplete for the purposes of subsequent, substantive land use
authority review, and the applicant fails to correct or provide documentation
of a good faith effort to correct the identified deficiencies within six months
after receiving written notice of the deficiencies.
      (2)   The land use authority or appeals authority tables/postpones action
on the application pending further submittals from the applicant, and said
submittals are not received within six months from the date of the motion to
table/postpone the application.
   (B)   Reapplication. Applications which are deemed inactive and procedurally
denied may reapply upon submission of the required documents and submittal of a
new fee.
   (C)   Notification required. No application shall be deemed inactive or
procedurally denied until 14 days after written notice of such pending
determination is sent to the applicant by the Zoning Administrator or designee.
   (D)   Appeal. A determination to deem an application inactive or
procedurally denied may be appealed to the appeal authority in accordance with
the provisions of §
155.030 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8) (Ord. 13-05, passed 4-16-2013)
§ 155.028 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Created; membership; appointment.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members. Of the
seven Planning Commission seats, five shall be appointed by the Commission as
follows. Each County Commissioner shall nominate one individual for appointment
to the Planning Commission from the following areas:
         (a)   Mountain Green;
         (b)   Peterson/Enterprise;
         (c)   Stoddard/Milton;
         (d)   Croydon/Round Valley; and
         (e)   Richville/Porterville.
   (2)   Each nominated individual will then be ratified by the County
Commission.There shall be two at large Planning Commission seats. Interested
residents of the county shall submit applications to the Planning Department.
Applications will be provided to the County Commission for consideration and
possible appointment.
   (B)   Term of office. The terms of the seven Planning Commissioners shall be
four years. Their terms shall begin on March 1 of the year of their appointment
and shall end on the last day of February of the fourth year of their term.The
terms of the five Planning Commissioners nominated and appointed by the County
Commission as described in division (A)(1) and (2) above shall continue until
March 31 of the year the new Commissioners would be sworn in to take their
seats. Each election new or existing Planning Commissioners will need to be
nominated and (re)ratified for the next term of office of the County
Commission. New County Commissioners shall have three months to nominate a
Planning Commissioner as outlined above. If this occurs the term of the
Planning Commissioner whose seat would be changed based on the newly elected
County Commissioner shall be extended during the interim.
   (C)   Compensation.
      (1)   The members of the Planning Commission shall serve as such without
compensation, except that the governing body shall fix per diem compensation
for the members of the Planning Commission based on necessary and reasonable
expenses and on meetings actually attended. The actual expenses incurred shall
be based upon presentation of proper receipts and vouchers.
      (2)   Each member of the Planning Commission shall be required to attend
(or have attended previously) one two-day training seminar, or equivalent,
within 12 months of initial appointment. Training fees and per diem expenses
shall be paid for by the county. Exceptions may be granted by the governing
body based on previous experience or professional certification. Additional
training may be required by the Planning Commission on federal, state or local
laws, including this chapter.
   (D)   Vacancies and removals for cause. Vacancies of appointed members
occurring otherwise than through the expiration of terms shall be filled for
the remainder of the unexpired term. The governing body shall have the right to
remove any member of the Planning Commission for misconduct and may remove any
member for nonperformance of duty. Unexcused absences from three consecutive
regular scheduled meetings of the Planning Commission may be considered by the
governing body as nonperformance of duty. Vacancies will be filled as provided
in division (A) above.
   (E)   Chairperson. The Planning Commission shall elect from its members a
Chairperson, whose term shall be for one year.
   (F)   Employees and staff. The Planning Commission shall have power and
authority to employ experts and a staff, and to pay such expenses as may be
reasonable and necessary for carrying out the powers hereinafter set forth, but
not in excess of such sums as may be appropriated by the governing body and/or
which may be placed at the disposal of the Planning Commission by gift or
otherwise.
   (G)   Rules and regulations adopted. The Planning Commission may adopt such
rules and regulations governing its procedures as it may consider necessary or
advisable, and shall keep records of its proceedings, which records shall be
open to inspection by the public at all reasonable times. The adopted rules and
regulations shall be presented to the governing body for its approval or
disapproval. Only after the formal approval of the governing body shall the
rules and regulations be enforceable.
   (H)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission is hereby designated the
land use authority of the county for the following:
      (1)   Prepare and recommend a General Plan, and amendments to the General
Plan, to the County Commission as provided in this chapter;
      (2)   Recommend zoning ordinances and maps, and amendments to zoning
ordinances and maps, to the County Commission as provided in this chapter;
      (3)   Administer provisions of this chapter, where specifically provided
for in this chapter, as adopted by the County Commission;
      (4)   Recommend subdivision regulations and amendments to those
regulations to the County Commission;
      (5)   Hold a public hearing on proposed subdivision regulations before
making its final recommendations to the County Commission;
      (6)   Recommend approval or denial of subdivision applications as
provided in this chapter;
      (7)   Advise the County Commission on matters as the governing body
directs;
      (8)   Recommend approval or denial of conditional use permits; and
      (9)   Exercise any other powers that are necessary to enable it to
perform its function or delegated to it by the County Commission.
   (I)   Required annual training. While Morgan County is considered a 4th
Class County, all Planning Commissioners shall be required to complete all
training as outlined within UCA § 17-27A-302(6)(b)(i) and (ii) Planning
Commission Powers and Duties - Training Requirements.
      (1)   One hour of annual training on general powers and duties with
County Attorney and Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Three hours of annual training on land use, which may include:
         (a)   Appeals and variances;
         (b)   Conditional use permits;
         (c)   Extractions;
         (d)   Impact fees;
         (e)   Vested rights;
         (f)   Subdivision regulations and improvement guarantees;
         (g)   Land use referenda;
         (h)   Property rights;
         (i)   Real estate procedures and financing;
         (j)   Zoning (form-based and use-based); and
         (k)   Drafting ordinances and code that complies with state statute.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-9) (Ord. 10-17, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 16-03, passed 7-5-
2016; Ord. 17-21, passed 4-4-2017; Ord. 24-07, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 24-13,
passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.029 GENERAL PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The governing body and the Planning Commission shall prepare and
adopt a Comprehensive General Plan for:
         (a)   The present and future needs of the county; and
         (b)   The growth and development of the land within the county or any
part of the county.
      (2)   The plan may provide for:
         (a)   Health, general welfare, safety, energy conservation,
transportation, prosperity, civic activities and recreation, educational and
cultural opportunities;
         (b)   The reduction of waste of physical, financial or human resources
that result from either excessive congestion or excessive scattering of
population;
         (c)   The efficient and economical use, conservation and production of
the supply of food and water, and of drainage, sanitary and other facilities
and resources;
         (d)   The use of energy conservation and solar and renewable energy
resources;
         (e)   The protection of environmental values and open spaces; and
         (f)   The protection of urban development.
      (3)   The governing body and the Planning Commission may determine the
comprehensiveness, extent and format of the General Plan.
   (B)   Plan preparation.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall make and recommend to the governing
body a proposed General Plan for the area within the county.
         (a)   The plan may include planning for incorporated areas if, in the
Planning Commission’s judgment, they are related to the planning of the
unincorporated territory or of the county as a whole.
         (b)   Elements of the county plan that address incorporated areas are
not an official plan or part of a municipal plan for any municipality, unless
it is adopted by the municipal Planning Commission and the governing body of
the municipality.
      (2)   The General Plan, with accompanying maps, plats, charts and
descriptive and explanatory matter, shall show the Planning Commission’s
recommendations for the development of the territory covered by the plan, and
may include, among other things:
         (a)   A land use element that:
            1.   Designates the proposed general distribution and location and
extent of uses of land for housing, business, industry, agriculture,
recreation, education, public buildings and grounds, open space and other
categories of public and private uses of land as appropriate; and
            2.   May include a statement of the standards of population density
and building intensity recommended for the various land use categories covered
by the plan.
         (b)   A transportation and circulation element consisting of the
general location and extent of existing and proposed freeways, arterial and
collector streets, mass transit and any other modes of transportation that are
appropriate, all correlated with the land use element of the plan;
         (c)   An environmental element that addresses:
            1.   The protection, conservation, development and use of natural
resources, including forests, soils, rivers and other waters, harbors,
fisheries, wildlife, minerals and other natural resources; and
            2.   The reclamation of land, flood control, prevention and control
of the pollution of streams and other waters, regulation of the use of land on
hillsides, stream channels and other environmentally sensitive areas, the
prevention, control and correction of the erosion of soils, protection of
watersheds and wetlands and the mapping of known geologic hazards.
         (d)   A public services and facilities element showing general plans
for sewage, waste disposal, drainage, local utilities, rights-of-way,
easements, facilities for them, police and fire protection and other public
services;
         (e)   A rehabilitation, redevelopment and conservation element
consisting of plans and programs for the elimination of blight and for
redevelopment, including housing sites, business and industrial sites and
public building sites;
         (f)   An economic element composed of appropriate studies and an
economic development plan that may include review of county revenue and
expenditures, revenue sources, identification of base and residentiary
industry, primary and secondary market areas, employment and retail sales
activity;
         (g)   Recommendations for implementing the plan, including the use of
zoning ordinances, subdivision ordinances, capital improvement plans and other
appropriate actions; and
         (h)   Any other elements that the governing body and the Planning
Commission considers appropriate.
      (3)   The Planning Commission should do an internal review of the General
Plan at least once every five years and recommend changes, if any, for adoption
to the governing body in the form of plan revisions or amendments.
   (C)   Plan adoption.
      (1)   After completing a proposed General Plan for all or part of the
area within the county, the Planning Commission shall schedule and hold a
public hearing on the proposed plan. After the public hearing, the Planning
Commission may make changes to the proposed General Plan.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall then forward the proposed General
Plan to the governing body.
      (3)   The governing body shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
General Plan recommended to it by the Planning Commission. The governing body
shall publish notice of the time, place and purpose of the public hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county at least ten days before the
hearing at which the proposed General Plan is to be considered and public
comment heard.
      (4)   After the public hearing, the governing body may make any
modifications to the proposed General Plan that it considers appropriate.
      (5)   The governing body may:
         (a)   Adopt the proposed General Plan without amendment;
         (b)   Amend the proposed General Plan and adopt or reject it as
amended; or
         (c)   Reject the proposed General Plan.
      (6)   The General Plan is an advisory guide for land use decisions.
   (D)   Amendment of plan. The governing body may amend the General Plan by
following the procedures required by division (C) above.
   (E)   Effect of plan on public uses. After the governing body has adopted a
General Plan or any amendments to the General Plan, no street, park or other
public way, ground, place or space, no publicly-owned building or structure and
utility, whether publicly- or privately-owned, may be constructed or authorized
until and unless:
      (1)   It conforms to the plan; or
      (2)   It has been considered by the Planning Commission and, after
receiving the advice of the Planning Commission, approved by the governing body
as an amendment to the General Plan.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-10)
§ 155.030 APPEAL AUTHORITY; APPEALS AND VARIANCE HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall be
appointed as the county appeals authority as follows.
      (1)   The appeals and variance hearing officer shall be appointed by the
County Commission.
      (2)   The appeals and variance hearing officer shall be appointed for a
term of one year and thereafter may be appointed for succeeding one-year terms.
      (3)   The appeals and variance hearing officer shall, as a minimum, have
such training and experience as will qualify him or her to conduct
administrative or quasi-judicial hearings regarding land use, land development
and regulatory codes dealing with issues related to land use.
      (4)   The County Commission may remove the appeals and variance hearing
officer for cause upon receipt of written charges filed against the appeals and
variance hearing officer with the County Commission. The County Commission
shall provide the appeals and variance hearing officer with a public hearing if
one is requested.
      (5)   In the case of death, resignation, removal or disqualification, the
position of appeals and variance hearing officer shall be promptly filled by a
replacement appointed by the County Commission for the unexpired term of the
previous appeals and variance hearing officer.
      (6)   The appeals and variance hearing officer shall be considered an
independent contractor; and as such will enter into a year-long contract for
services at the beginning of each appointed term. Terms for compensation and
reimbursement will be determined and agreed upon in the aforementioned
contract. The terms and conditions of the contract shall ultimately be approved
by the County Commission prior to any individual entering into an agreement
with the county to serve as the appeals and variance hearing officer.
      (7)   The County Commission may, from time to time, appoint an appeals
and variance hearing officer pro tempore on a temporary basis when necessitated
by the absence, unavailability, incapacity or disqualification of the regularly
appointed appeals and variance hearing officer. Each appeals and variance
hearing officer pro tempore shall, as a minimum, have qualifications which are
similar to the regularly appointed appeals and variance hearing officer.
   (B)   Organization and procedure. The appeals and variance hearing officer
shall organize and exercise his or her powers and duties as follows.
      (1)   The appeals and variance hearing officer may adopt reasonable
policies and procedures in accordance with county ordinances to govern the
conduct of its meetings and hearings and for any other purposes considered
necessary for the functioning of the position of appeals and variance hearing
officer. Such policies and procedures shall be approved by the County
Commission before taking effect.
      (2)   The appeals and variance hearing officer shall hold meetings as
needed to consider matters within its purview under this chapter. The appeals
and variance hearing officer meeting shall be held at such times and dates as
deemed necessary by the appeals and variance hearing officer. All meetings and
hearings shall be properly noticed and held in accordance with the Open and
Public Meetings Act set forth in UCA §§ 52-4-1 et seq., as amended. Written
minutes of all meetings of the appeals and variance hearing officer shall be
prepared and filed in the office of the County Clerk for review and access by
the public. All records of the meetings shall be subject to the provisions of
the Government Records Access Management Act, UCA §§ 63G-2-101 et seq., as
amended.
      (3)   The decision of the appeals and variance hearing officer takes
effect on the date when the appeals and variance hearing officer issues a
written decision.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the appeals and variance
hearing officer shall be limited to the matters set forth below. Each of such
powers and duties shall be exercised pursuant to the procedural and other
provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Hear and decide appeals from administrative decisions applying the
provisions of this chapter where not otherwise specifically designated;
      (2)   Hear and decide variances from the terms of this chapter;
      (3)   Hear appeals related to determinations made regarding the
existence, expansion or modification of nonconforming uses; and
      (4)   Hear appeals regarding the interpretation of the zoning maps and
disputed questions on lot lines, district boundary lines or similar questions
as they arise in the administration of the zoning regulations only after a
written decision has been made by the land use authority.
   (D)   Appeals. Appeals to the appeals and variance hearing officer shall be
filed in writing with the Zoning Administrator within 30 days from the date of
the decision or action appealed. The officer or department from whom the appeal
is taken shall forthwith transmit to the appeals and variance hearing officer
all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken.
Appeals shall only be accepted in which final action of the land use authority
has been made, as evidenced by issuance of a permit or other final written
action. The Zoning Administrator shall determine the completeness of the appeal
and shall reject any appeal filed without the required fee or submitted after
the 30-day deadline has expired.
      (1)   The appeals and variance hearing officer shall determine the
correctness of a decision of the land use authority in its interpretation and
application of this chapter. Only those decisions in which a land use authority
has applied this chapter to a particular application, person or parcel may be
appealed to the appeals and variance hearing officer. No person may challenge a
legislative decision by a land use authority to the appeals and variance
hearing officer, including land use ordinance amendment, General Plan amendment
or interpretation or zoning map amendment.
      (2)   In reviewing a decision of a land use authority, the appeals and
variance hearing officer must affirm that decision, unless it is found that a
decision interpreting or applying this chapter was arbitrary, capricious or
illegal. An appeal is not subject to de novo review.
      (3)   In exercising his or her powers, the appeals and variance hearing
officer may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify an order,
decision or determination, to make such order, decision or determination,
consistent with county ordinances and other applicable laws.
      (4)   Appeals may not be used to waive or modify the terms or
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Decisions of the appeals and variance hearing officer. At the hearing
of any matter, the parties affected may appear in person with or without an
attorney. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall decide all appeals and
other issues brought before it within a reasonable time.
   (F)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal to the appeals and variance hearing
officer shall not stay proceedings taken in furtherance of the action appealed
from unless such proceedings are specifically stayed by order of the Zoning
Administrator. An appellant may request a stay by submitting to the Zoning
Administrator, in writing, an application for a stay setting forth the reasons
why a stay is necessary to protect against imminent harm. In determining
whether or not to grant a stay, the Zoning Administrator shall ensure that all
potentially affected parties are given the opportunity to comment on the
request. A ruling on the request for a stay shall be given within five days
from the date the request is received by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator, in granting a stay, may impose additional conditions to mitigate
any potential harm that may be caused by the stay, including requiring the
appellant to post a cash escrow financial guarantee. Within ten days of the
Zoning Administrator’s decision regarding the grant or denial of a stay, any
aggrieved party may appeal the decision to the appeals and variance hearing
officer, whose decision will be final.
   (G)   Appeals from the appeals and variance hearing officer. Any person
aggrieved by a final decision of the appeals and variance hearing officer may
have and maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction, provided that the petition for such relief is presented
to the court within 30 days from the date of the decision of the appeals and
variance hearing officer.
   (H)   Variances.
      (1)   Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the
requirements of this chapter as applied to a parcel of property that he or she
owns, leases or in which he or she holds some other beneficial interest, may
apply to the appeals and variance hearing officer for a variance from the terms
of this chapter.
      (2)   The appeals and variance hearing officer may grant a variance if:
         (a)   1.   Literal enforcement of this chapter would cause a hardship
for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general purpose of
this chapter;
            2.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that
do not generally apply to other properties in the same zone;
            3.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same zone;
            4.   The variance will not substantially affect the General Plan
and will not be contrary to the public interest; and
            5.   The spirit of this chapter is observed, and substantial
justice done.
         (b)   In determining whether or not enforcement of this chapter would
cause unreasonable hardship under division (H)(2)(a)1. above, the appeals and
variance hearing officer may not find an unreasonable hardship unless:
            1.   a.   The alleged hardship is located on or associated with
property for which the variance is sought; and
               b.   The alleged hardship comes from circumstances peculiar to
the property, not from conditions that are general in the neighborhood.
            2.   In determining whether or not enforcement of this chapter
would cause unreasonable hardship under division (H)(2)(a)1. above, the appeals
and variance hearing officer may not find an unreasonable hardship if the
hardship is self-imposed or economic.
         (c)   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances
attached to the property under division (H)(2)(a)2. above, the appeals and
variance hearing officer may find that special circumstances exist only if the
special circumstances:
            1.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
            2.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties
in the same zone.
      (3)   The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the
conditions justifying a variance have been met.
      (4)   Variances run with the land.
      (5)   The appeals and variance hearing officer may not grant use
variances.
      (6)   In granting a variance, the appeals and variance hearing officer
may impose additional requirements on the applicant that will:
         (a)   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
         (b)   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived
or modified.
   (I)   District court review of appeals and variance hearing officer
decision.
      (1)   Any person adversely affected by any decision of the appeals and
variance hearing officer may petition the district court for a review of the
decision in accordance with UCA §§ 17-27a-801 et seq., as amended.
      (2)   In the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the appeals and
variance hearing officer’s decision was arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
      (3)   The petition is barred unless it is filed within 30 days after the
appeals and variance hearing officer’s decision is final. As a condition
precedent to judicial review, each adversely affected person shall timely and
specifically challenge the land use authority’s decision, in accordance with
this chapter.
      (4)   The appeals and variance hearing officer shall transmit to the
reviewing court the record of its proceedings, including its minutes, findings,
orders and, if available, a true and correct transcript of its proceedings. If
the proceeding was tape recorded, a transcript of that tape recording is a true
and correct transcript for purposes of this division (I)(4).
      (5)   If there is a record, the district court’s review is limited to the
record provided by the appeals and variance hearing officer. The court may not
accept or consider any evidence outside the appeals and variance hearing
officer’s record unless that evidence was offered to the appeals and variance
hearing officer and the court determines that it was improperly excluded.
      (6)   If there is no record, the court may call witnesses and take
evidence.
      (7)   The court shall affirm the decision of the appeals and variance
hearing officer if the decision is supported by substantial evidence in the
record.
      (8)   The filing of a petition does not stay the decision of the appeals
and variance hearing officer. Before filing the petition, the aggrieved party
may petition the appeals and variance hearing officer to stay its decision.
Upon receipt of a petition to stay, the appeals and variance hearing officer
may order its decision stayed pending district court review if the appeals and
variance hearing officer finds it to be in the best interest of the county.
After the petition is filed, the petitioner may seek an injunction staying the
appeals and variance hearing officer’s decision.
   (J)   Ex parte contact.
      (1)   Ex parte contact between the appeals and variance hearing officer
and opposing parties involved in litigation with the county involving land use
issues shall be prohibited. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall not
participate in site or office visits, electronic communication, written
communication or verbal conversation, either face to face or over the
telephone, with any individual or any representative of a company or entity
involved in legal proceedings with the county involving land use issues. This
prohibition shall include plaintiffs who have filed suit against the county,
claimants who have served a notice of claim on the county and defendants in
actions filed by the county, such as those in violation of provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   The appeals and variance hearing officer shall be restricted from
ex parte contact, including site or office visits, electronic communication,
written communication and verbal conversation, either face to face or over the
telephone, with any individual or representative of a company or entity when
such interaction involves a request for hearings, variances or appeals of
administrative decisions. This restriction on ex parte contact applies to all
variances, appeals of administrative decisions or special exceptions, after an
application for such is filed with the Zoning Administrator, while the
application is under review by the appeals and variance hearing officer or
while the application is under appeal, if an appeal is filed. The appeals and
variance hearing officer shall not participate in ex parte contact with
individuals or representatives of a company or entity opposed to a request for
a hearing, variance or appeal of administrative decision.
      (3)   Receipt of written information regarding an active request for a
hearing, variance, appeal of administrative decision or special exception shall
be permitted, provided such written information is disclosed at the next
meeting of the appeals and variance hearing officer where the matter is being
heard and submitted as a part of the record of that meeting.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-11) (Ord. 11-03, passed 3-1-2011) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.031 PUBLIC HEARINGS, PUBLIC COMMENT AND PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   Any public hearing, public comment item or meeting required under this
chapter shall be scheduled and held subject to the requirements of this
section.
   (A)   Scheduling a public hearing, public comment item or public meeting. An
application requiring a public hearing, public comment or public meeting shall
be scheduled within a reasonable time in light of:
      (1)   The complexity of the application submitted;
      (2)   The number of other applications received which require a public
hearing or public comment;
      (3)   Available staff resources; and
      (4)   Applicable public notice requirements.
   (B)   Public hearing and public comment procedures. The following procedures
shall apply to a public hearing or public comment items.
      (1)   Any person may appear at a public hearing or an agendized public
comment item and submit evidence, either individually or as the agent of a
person or an organization. Each person who appears at a public hearing or
agendized public comment item shall state his or her name and, if appearing on
behalf of a person or an organization, state the name of the person or
organization being represented.
      (2)   The land use authority, body or official conducting a public
hearing or agendized public comment item may exclude testimony or evidence that
it finds to be unduly repetitious or otherwise irrelevant.
      (3)   The land use authority, body or official conducting a public
hearing or agendized public comment item may, upon the body’s or official’s own
motion, postpone the hearing or public comment item. An applicant may request
and shall be granted one postponement if requested 48 hours prior to a noticed
meeting. Thereafter, any postponement shall be granted at the discretion of the
body or official conducting the public hearing or agendized public comment
item.
   (C)   Withdrawal of application. An applicant may withdraw an application at
any time prior to action on the application by the land use authority,
decision-making body or official. Application fees shall not be refundable if
prior to withdrawal:
      (1)   A staff review of the application has been undertaken; or
      (2)   Notice for a public hearing, public comment item or meeting on the
application has been mailed, posted or published.
   (D)   Record of public hearing or public meeting. Except where required
otherwise by statute, the land use authority, body or official conducting the
public hearing or meeting shall record the proceedings thereof by any
appropriate means. A copy of the public hearing or public meeting record may be
acquired upon request and payment of a fee to cover the cost of duplication of
the record. The minutes, recordings, all applications, exhibits, papers and
reports submitted in any proceeding before the decision-making body or
official, and the decision of the decision-making body or official shall
constitute the record thereof. The record shall be made available for public
examination, pursuant to applicable provisions of the state’s Government
Records Access and Management Act, UCA § 63G-2, as amended.
   (E)   General requirements for findings and decisions. Action shall be taken
in compliance with any time limits established in this chapter. Except for the
County Commission, whose decision shall be made by motion or ordinance, all
final decisions shall be in writing and shall include at least the following
elements:
      (1)   A summary of evidence presented to the decision-making body or
official;
      (2)   A statement of applicable development standards;
      (3)   A statement of findings of fact or other factors considered,
including the basis upon which such facts were determined and specific
references to applicable standards set forth in this chapter or other titles of
this code; and
      (4)   A statement of approval, approval with conditions or disapproval,
as the case may be.
   (F)   Notification. Notice of a decision by the land use authority,
decision-making body or official shall be provided to an applicant within a
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-12) (Ord. 12-04, passed 5-1-2012; Ord. 18-07, passed 11-13-
2018)
§ 155.032 NOTICING.
   Required notice of public meetings and public hearings for land use
applications and ordinances shall include and comply with the following
provisions.
   (A)   Mailing list and labels.
      (1)   The applicant for a site-specific land use application which
requires a public hearing shall provide the Planning and Development Services
Department with an approved list of all owners of real property located within
1,000 feet of the boundary of the subject property parcel, as shown on the
official records of the County Recorder.
      (2)   The applicant shall pay to the county a fee in the amount of the
actual costs incurred by the county in providing the notice and shall bear sole
responsibility to ensure the accuracy of the property owner list.
   (B)   Applicant notification. For all land use applications, the county
shall be required to give notice to the applicant of the date, time and place
of each public hearing and public meeting to consider the application, and of
any final action on a pending application. The county shall also provide to
each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the applicant or the
pending application at least three business days before the public hearing or
public meeting and notify the applicant of any final action on a pending
application.
   (C)   Notice to third parties. For site-specific land use applications which
require a public hearing, the county shall mail notice to the record owner of
each parcel within a 1,000-foot radius of the subject property, and the
applicant shall post a sign on the property according to the following
regulations.
      (1)   The applicant shall post a county-provided sign along each street
on which the subject property has frontage. If the subject property does not
abut a street, then the sign should be posted on a nearby street as determined
by the Zoning Administrator. Sign shall be of sufficient size, durability,
print quality and location that it is reasonably calculated to give notice to
those passing by. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to remove and
dispose of the sign(s) within five calendar days after the final hearing or
meeting regarding the application. Third-party property owners who live within
the 1,000-foot radius but outside of the county boundaries shall be sent notice
equivalent to that sent to property owners within the county.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit a signed affidavit of public posting.
      (3)   The affidavit shall include a photograph verifying that the sign
has been installed, at least ten days prior to the required public hearing or
meeting.
      (4)   Failure to post the public notice sign and provide the required
verification at least ten days prior to the required public hearing will cause
a delay in the processing of the application, to allow for the required public
hearing notice.
      (5)   If the sign is destroyed or damaged the applicant shall replace the
sign within 12 hours upon being notified.
   (D)   General plan adoption or amendment. The county shall provide advance
notice of the date, time and place for public hearings and meetings regarding a
General Plan adoption or amendment as follows.
      (1)   The county shall provide notice of the first public hearing to
consider the adoption or modification of all or any portion of the General Plan
at least ten calendar days before the public hearing. Notice shall be:
         (a)   Published on the state’s public notice website created in the
state code;
         (b)   Mailed to each affected entity; and
         (c)   Posted in at least three public locations within the county or
on the county’s official website.
      (2)   The county shall publish in a newspaper of general circulation in
the area at least three calendar days before the public hearing.
      (3)   The county shall provide notice of each public meeting regarding
the adoption or modification of all or any part of the General Plan at least 24
hours before the meeting. Notice shall be:
         (a)   Submitted to a newspaper of general circulation in the area and
published on the state’s public notice website created in the state code; and
         (b)   Posted in at least three public locations within the county or
on the county’s official website.
   (E)   Adoption or amendment of land use ordinance or zoning map. The county
shall provide notice of the date, time and place for public hearings and
meetings regarding a Land Use Ordinance or zoning map adoption or modification
as follows:
      (1)   The county shall provide notice of the first public hearing to
consider the adoption or any modification of a Land Use Ordinance or zoning
map. Notice shall be:
         (a)   Mailed to each affected entity at least ten calendar days before
the public hearing;
         (b)   Posted in at least three public locations within the county or
on the county’s official website; and
         (c)   Published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area at
least three days before the public hearing and on the state’s public notice
website at least ten days before the public hearing or in lieu of the previous
two requirements mailed at least ten days before the public hearing to each
property owner whose land is directly affected by the Land Use Ordinance change
and each adjacent property owner within 1,000 feet of a specific Land Use
Ordinance amendment application boundary.
      (2)   The county shall provide notice of each public meeting regarding
the adoption or modification of a Land Use Ordinance or zoning map at least 24
hours before the meeting. Notice shall be posted in at least three public
locations within the county or on the county’s website.
   (F)   Subdivision plat. The county shall provide advance notice of the date,
time and place for public meetings regarding a proposed subdivision as follows:
      (1)   The county shall mail notice of the first public meeting to
consider a proposed subdivision not less than ten calendar days before the
first public meeting addressed to the record owner of each parcel within 1,000
feet of the subject property; and
      (2)   Not less than ten calendar days before the first public meeting,
the applicant shall post on the property one county provided sign on a street
on which the subject property has frontage. If the subject property does not
abut a street, then the sign shall be posted on a nearby street as determined
by the Zoning Administrator. The sign shall be of sufficient size, durability,
print quality and location that it is reasonably calculated to give notice to
those passing by.
   (G)   Subdivision plat amendments.
      (1)   The county shall provide advance notice of the date, time and place
for at least one public meeting regarding a proposed subdivision plat amendment
as follows:
         (a)   The county shall mail notice of the first public meeting and any
required public hearings to consider a proposed subdivision plat amendment not
less than ten calendar days before the first public meeting addressed to the
record owner of each parcel within 1,000 feet of the subject property; or
         (b)   Not less than ten calendar days before the first public meeting
and any required public hearings, the applicant shall post on the property one
county provided sign on a street on which the subject property has frontage. If
the subject property does not abut a street, then the sign shall be posted on a
nearby street as determined by the Zoning Administrator. The sign shall be of
sufficient size, durability, print quality and location that it is reasonably
calculated to give notice to those passing by.
      (2)   For a subdivision that involves a vacation, alteration or amendment
of a street, notice shall also be provided as required by division (H) below.
   (H)   Proposals to vacate or amend a public street, right-of-way or
easement. For any proposal to vacate some or all of a public street, right-of-
way or easement, the County Commission shall hold a public hearing, after
receiving a recommendation from the Planning Commission, and give notice of the
date, place and time of the hearing at least ten days before the public
hearing. Notice shall be:
      (1)   Mailed to the record owner of each parcel that is adjacent to,
accessed by or within 300 feet of the public street, right-of-way or easement;
      (2)   Mailed to each affected entity;
      (3)   Posted on or near the street, right-of-way or easement at least one
county provided sign in a manner that is calculated to alert the public. The
sign shall be of sufficient size, durability, print quality and location that
it is reasonably calculated to give notice to those passing by;
      (4)   Published on the state’s public notice website created in UCA §
63A-16-601; and
      (5)   Published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in
which the land subject to the petition is located at least three days before
the public hearing.
   (I)   Challenge of notice. If notice given under authority of this section
is not challenged in accordance with applicable appeal procedures within 30
days after the meeting or action for which notice was given, the notice shall
be deemed adequate and proper.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-13) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 12-04, passed 5-1-
2012; Ord. 13-03, passed 4-16-2013; Ord. 17-10, passed 2-7-2017; Ord. 18-07,
passed 11-13-2018; Ord. 17-11, passed 2-7-2017; Ord. 21-09, passed 7-6-2021)
DOCUMENT AND PLAN SUBMISSION
§ 155.045 DOCUMENT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Presubmission procedures. To facilitate the handling of applications,
the County Commission may adopt presubmission procedures to allow for adequate
investigations and staff review and may require compliance with such
presubmission review procedures as a prerequisite to formal receipt and action
by the land use authority. Presubmission review shall in no way be interpreted
to mean final review or approval by the land use authority.
   (B)   Submission and docketing for review. Upon receipt of all required fees
(see county fee schedule) and information for any specific step of the review
procedure, the Zoning Administrator and other members of the Technical Review
Committee shall review the application for completeness and compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and other pertinent county regulations. When the
Zoning Administrator determines that the application is ready for review by the
land use authority, the Zoning Administrator shall forward the application,
along with a staff report, to the land use authority. Incomplete applications
shall not be forwarded for review.
   (C)   Applicability of application and document requirements to types of
uses.
      (1)   Complete applications are required for all land uses and
developments, as required by this chapter.
      (2)   Applications, preapplication consultation, preliminary design
plans, and final plans shall be required for all the following land
developments:
         (a)   Mobile home parks (MHP);
         (b)   Mobile home subdivisions (MH SUB);
         (c)   Recreational vehicle parks (RVP);
         (d)   Commercial (COM) and industrial sites (IND);
         (e)   Land excavations and fills;
         (f)   Public and private recreation facilities (golf courses, sports
complexes, swimming pools, recreation trails, ski resorts and the like); and
         (g)   Two-family and multi-family developments.
   (D)   Applications submitted and reviewed in steps. Applications shall be
submitted and reviewed in steps. Each step shall be reviewed by the Zoning
Administrator, and as appropriate the Technical Review Committee, before an
application and recommendations are forwarded to and reviewed by the land use
authority. The necessity of submitting revised and additional information,
documents and/or drawings shall be determined by the land use authority or
Zoning Administrator, as appropriate. The steps in the approval process are as
follows:
      (1)   Step one: Preapplication consultation; and
      (2)   Step two: Application review and approval.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 11-16, passed 12-6-
2011)
§ 155.046 PREAPPLICATION CONSULTATION.
   (A)   Consultation encouraged. Applicants are strongly encouraged to
schedule a preapplication consultation with the Zoning Administrator, which
will enable a review of a proposed project for general scope and conditions
which might impact the proposed project and the county.
      (1)   Step one: Schedule a meeting with the Zoning Administrator to
present the conceptual proposal.
      (2)   Step two: The Zoning Administrator will provide comments relating
to the proposal’s general compliance with the county’s codes, regulations,
standards and plans. Comments from the Zoning Administrator do not constitute
review or approval of any application by the land use authority.
   (B)   Document requirements. The following items should be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator for preapplication review in order to facilitate the
provision of guidance regarding the project:
      (1)   Location map. A map showing where the project is located;
      (2)   A vicinity plan. An aerial map at a scale of one inch equals 100
feet, or other competent base map showing the area within one-fourth mile of
the project boundaries giving context to the proposed development. The
following elements shall be drawn to scale on said map:
         (a)   Proposed streets;
         (b)   Buildings, existing and proposed;
         (c)   Public facilities;
         (d)   Utilities;
         (e)   Boundaries of zoning districts;
         (f)   Taxing and other special districts;
         (g)   Watercourses, impoundments, streams, springs, wells (existing
and proposed), wellhead protection, floodplains and areas subject to continuous
or occasional flooding;
         (h)   Significant vegetative patterns; and
         (i)   Geologic hazards.
      (3)   A sketch/site plan. A scaled drawing of and information pertaining
to a proposed development site. A site plan shall include the following:
         (a)   The name, telephone number and business address of the developer
and owner;
         (b)   The name, telephone number and business address of the project
designer;
         (c)   The dimensions of the site and total acreage;
         (d)   North point and scale of the drawing;
         (e)   Locations and names of existing and proposed buildings;
         (f)   Locations and names of existing and proposed streets;
         (g)   Public and private easements and rights-of-way related to the
site;
         (h)   Existing survey monuments;
         (i)   Watercourses and impoundments;
         (j)   Location and description of existing and proposed vegetation;
         (k)   Location of proposed parking;
         (l)   Location and size of utility service (water, sewer, power, gas,
telephone, cable) lines;
         (m)   Location of proposed septic or sewer connection; and
         (n)   Preliminary location of all proposed on-site uses and desired
improvements (and off-site improvements if considered essential at this stage).
The plan is to convey information that is necessary to determine feasibility
and identify problems that need to be solved in the preliminary design plan.
   (C)   Preapplication submittal review.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the preapplication submittal and associated fee,
the Zoning Administrator may distribute copies to the Technical Review
Committee and other agencies for review and comment.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the concept plan application
for compliance with all applicable regulations. The Zoning Administrator shall
notify the applicant of review findings and comments, which may assist the
applicant and land use authority in evaluating the proposed development when
submitted for formal land use application review.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 155.047 APPLICATION REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Submit to Zoning Administrator. The applicant shall submit any
required land use application to the Zoning Administrator. The applicant shall
submit all items required by this chapter and other county regulations and
shall address any preapplication comments that may have been provided.
Applications submitted without all required items shall be considered
incomplete and not processed until deemed complete.
   (B)   Document requirements. The following items shall be submitted in an
application to the Zoning Administrator for application review:
      (1)   An application, signed and notarized by the property owner and all
required fees;
      (2)   A preliminary title report covering the entire land in the proposed
project, including a certificate of title insurance for any land to be
dedicated to the county for public use;
      (3)   When applicable, letters from the public agencies which will
provide water and sewer service to the proposed development. The letter should
state what type of interim system, if any, may be allowed until full service
can be provided by the public agency, and that potable water will be available
to the developer in quantities and quality as required by state requirements
for the project;
      (4)   A letter from each utility company serving the project, addressed
to the Zoning Administrator, stating that they have reviewed the plan and are
setting forth their comments concerning the extent of services availability;
the design of utility easements; and the approximate costs to the developer. A
copy of the plan approved by the utility company shall be returned, initialed
and stamped by the company, to the Zoning Administrator for placement in the
application file;
      (5)   Statement of the estimated starting and completion dates for each
phase of development, including proposed grading work and any landscape work;
      (6)   A copy of any proposed protective covenants, articles of
incorporation, association or condominium bylaws or development agreements;
      (7)   Tabulations showing the square footage and percent of total area
proposed in:
         (a)   Off-street parking;
         (b)   Streets;
         (c)   Developed parks;
         (d)   Natural open spaces or undeveloped parks; and
         (e)   Landscaping.
      (8)   Tabulations showing the square footage and percent of area covered
by buildings, existing and proposed;
      (9)   Tabulations showing the square footage and total floor space by
type of use, i.e., residential, commercial, industrial and the like;
      (10)   Estimated construction cost and proposed method of financing of
the streets and related facilities; water distribution system; sewage
collection system; storm drainage facilities; and such other elements as may be
necessary and considered to be required improvements for the project; and
      (11)   Appropriate supporting documents showing compliance with state air
emissions and water discharge standards, including storm drainage system.
   (C)   Project design information and plans.
      (1)   Data geotechnical report, which also includes any information
required by the geologic hazard or sensitive area ordinances, from a
professional engineer and/or geologist, as necessary;
      (2)   Fire hazard assessment and fire protection plan, as required by the
Wildland Urban Interface Code;
      (3)   Site plan drawings showing location of all on-site and off-site
construction;
      (4)   A map showing the existing contours at two-foot intervals for
predominant ground slopes within the project up to 5% grade and five-foot
contours for the predominant ground slopes within the project over 5% grade.
Elevations shall be based on mean sea level data. In cases of predominantly
level topography through a project, one-foot interval contours may be required;
      (5)   Location and size of all existing and proposed easements and
rights-of-way, including solar, utility lines, water and sewage lines, storm
drains and facilities, watercourses, irrigation systems, land drains and the
like;
      (6)   Dimensioned parking layout showing location of individual parking
stalls, driveways and other areas of ingress and egress;
      (7)   Grading plan;
      (8)   Generalized landscaping plans for the site and, if appropriate,
information relating to the landscaping on adjacent or surrounding areas
affected by the proposed development. Such landscaping plans shall be prepared
to scale by a landscape architect, licensed in the state, showing:
         (a)   The location of all trees, shrubs, plants and ground cover,
including the common and Latin names, caliper size, gallon size or height
specifications, as appropriate;
         (b)   Special effects and decorative materials;
         (c)   The locations and type of automatic irrigation systems
(sprinkler, bubbler and the like); and
         (d)   Recreation equipment.
      (9)   Storm drainage system design shall:
         (a)   Consider the drainage system as a whole and shall include:
            1.   Runoff from the entire development site;
            2.   Where applicable, the system shall be designed to accommodate
the runoff from those areas adjacent to and upstream from the development site;
            3.   The effects of the stormwaters on lands downstream;
            4.   Limit peak runoff discharge from any new development site area
to two-tenths cubic feet per second per acre. Detention ponds with discharge
control structures shall be used to store stormwater runoff in excess of the
peak permissible discharge; and
            5.   If no drainage facilities are available for receiving runoff
from the development site, stormwater runoff shall be retained and disposed on-
site.
         (b)   Include all facilities necessary to accommodate that quantity of
water attributable to a storm having a minimum ten-year frequency.
            1.   Gutter capacities will be limited to that flow which will not
create a hazard, damage or flood adjacent properties and which can be safely
intercepted at the inlets.
            2.   Stormwater inlets and catch basins shall be provided within
the roadway improvements at points approved by the County Engineer.
            3.   No ditch or canal shall be approved as suitable for the
disposal of storm drainage water without the written permission of the
appropriate ditch or canal company, or of the water users of said ditch or
canal. No ditch or canal shall be used for stormwater disposal unless
adequately improved to handle such water as might be reasonably expected to
flow in the canal or ditch as irrigation water, the project runoff water and
any other water expected to reach such canal or ditch. No ditch, canal or other
waterway shall be permitted within property dedicated or to be dedicated for
public use, except as specifically approved by the land use authority. The
developer shall remove such waterways from property to be dedicated before
submission of the final plat.
            4.   Complete design calculations shall be submitted with the plans
for the storm drainage system.
      (10)   Engineering plans:
         (a)   Typical street cross-sections. This may be shown by reference to
the street cross-sections adopted by the county.
         (b)   Profiles of all streets, water, sewer and drainage lines. These
profiles should be shown on separate sheets but to a scale no smaller than one
inch equals 20 feet vertical and one inch equals 40 feet horizontal.
         (c)   Detailed engineering. Plans showing lot lines, site grading,
street improvements, drainage and public utility locations.
         (d)   Drainage plan and drainage calculations. Details of any proposed
drainage structures, cribbing, terraces and/or surface protection, not
including vegetation cover, required as a result of grading or excavation and
required for the support of adjoining property.
         (e)   Minimum construction and improvement standards. Engineering
plans shall be designed and drawn to minimum industry or higher standards, but
in all cases shall meet county adopted construction standards.
         (f)   Legal descriptions and labels. Legal descriptions and labels of
major parcels, and parcels to be dedicated to the public.
      (11)   On curved boundaries and all curves in the plan, sufficient data
shall be given to enable the reestablishment of the curves on the ground. This
curve data shall include the following for circular curves:
         (a)   Radius of curve;
         (b)   Central angle;
         (c)   Tangent;
         (d)   Arc length; and
         (e)   Chord (bearing and length).
      (12)   Parcels not included in the original phase of development shall be
marked “not included in this phase,” and a phasing plan shall be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator for review and presentation to the land use authority.
The boundaries of all phases shall be completely indicated by bearings and
distances;
      (13)   All streets, walkways and alleys shall be designated as such, and
streets shall be numbered; bearings and dimensions must be given;
      (14)   All easements shall be designated as such, and bearings and
dimensions given;
      (15)   All lands within the boundaries of the plan shall be accounted for
either as lots, walkways, streets, alleys, common areas, building areas,
parking areas, drainage facilities, landscape areas and permanent open space,
future phases and the like;
      (16)   All bearings and lengths shall be given for all lot lines, except
that bearings and lengths need not be given for interior lot lines where the
bearings and lengths are the same as those of both end lot lines;
      (17)   Parcels not contiguous may be included in one plan if they will be
developed concurrently, and, contiguous parcels owned by different parties may
be included in one plan, provided that all owners authorize the application;
      (18)   Lengths shall be shown to hundredths of a foot, and angles and
bearings shall be shown to seconds;
      (19)   The information on the plan shall include description of project
boundaries, public streets and easements (utility, drainage, access and the
like), as well as other design elements and the following:
         (a)   Name of development, astronomic north arrow and basis thereof,
date and names of developer and engineer;
         (b)   Name and address of owner or owners of record;
         (c)   Total acreage of development project and total number of lots
and acreage of each;
         (d)   Township, range, section (and quarter section, if portion);
         (e)   Graphic scale; and
         (f)   Any additional information required by county ordinance, or by
state law.
      (20)   The dimensions and format of the plan shall conform to county
requirements; and
      (21)   A copy of all required plan submittals in digital format for
AutoCAD (DWG file) shall be submitted. Architectural plans or renderings not
created in AutoCAD shall be submitted electronically in PDF format.
   (D)   Application review procedure.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall, upon receipt of the complete
application, distribute copies of the plan to the County Engineer, other
members of the Technical Review Committee, and to such other governmental
departments and agencies for review and comment as in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator may contribute to a decision based on the best information for
the public interest. If a plan is revised, the redlined copy of the previous
plan shall be returned for comparison purposes.
      (2)   The land use authority shall consider the application for approval
when determined complete by the Zoning Administrator and accompanied by a staff
report.
      (3)   The land use authority shall approve only those applications which
the Planning Commission finds:
         (a)   To be developed in accordance with the standards and criteria
specified in this chapter and other applicable regulations;
         (b)   To create no substantial financial hardship to the county;
         (c)   To create no substantial environmental consequence which will
adversely impact upon adjacent properties and the health, safety or welfare of
the inhabitants of the county when weighed against the positive impacts of such
development; and
         (d)   To mitigate possible adverse impacts from the proposed
development, the land use authority shall determine from a review of the
application whether the soil, slope, vegetation and the drainage
characteristics of the site are such as to require substantial cutting,
clearing, grading and other earthmoving operations in the construction of the
development, or otherwise threaten an erosion hazard and, if so, the land use
authority shall require the developer to provide soil erosion, geological
hazard and sedimentation control plans and specifications. Such control plans
and specifications shall be prepared by a qualified professional team with the
costs of preparation of such plans and specifications being borne by the
developer and applicant. Also, when in the opinion of the land use authority
public facilities should be constructed within the boundaries of a proposed
development for the benefit of the community as established in the
Comprehensive General Plan or capital facilities plan of the county, the
developer shall reserve a site appropriate in area and location for such public
facility. The cost and proportionate share analysis of requiring community wide
facilities within a development site shall be finalized by a development
agreement between the applicant and the county.
      (4)   After review of the application at a public meeting, the land use
authority shall approve, disapprove or approve with conditions the application,
and notify the applicant in writing of such action, or may postpone action to
allow the applicant time to provide materials or additional information needed
by the land use authority, to then determine appropriate action. A land use
application should only be denied if it does not conform to the adopted rules,
regulations and ordinances, technical inaccuracies or insufficiencies or
incomplete information.
      (5)   Any approval or denial made by the land use authority shall be
transmitted to the applicant in writing, including any conditions of approval
and findings. The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the written decision to
the applicant.
      (6)   After approval of a land use application, the owner and applicant
may proceed toward further development, permitting, licensing or subdivision
pursuant to the requirements of this chapter and all other county requirements.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 155.048 SUPPLEMENTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   As built construction drawings. The development and applicant shall
furnish as built drawings of all required public improvements once constructed.
Submission of as built drawings will be required prior to the issuance of an
occupancy permit by the county, or release of development agreement or
improvements guarantee. (Include also any common facilities that could ever
apply for public acceptance or maintenance.)
   (B)   Review of improvement guarantee agreement. The County Commission shall
review and execute a developer’s improvement guarantee agreement, as necessary,
to guarantee completion of the required improvements. The only allowed
financial guarantee method is funds directly deposited with the County
Treasurer.
   (C)   Fees. Fees shall be charged to applicants as may be required by an
adopted fee schedule for excavation permits, zoning amendments, building
permits, occupancy permits, conditional use permits, design review, Planning
Commission and appeal authority hearings and/or meetings and such other
services as are required by this chapter to be performed by public officers,
agencies or outsourced consultants and the like. Such fee schedule shall be
established by the County Commission by resolution and shall be in amounts
reasonably needed to defray costs to the public.
   (D)   Copies. The number of copies required to be submitted to the county
for a land use application shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator and
included with the development application form. Additional copies may be
required by the Zoning Administrator as may be needed for proper review and
plan distribution.
   (E)   Formal action and hearings. Formal action and hearings on any
application shall be conducted in accordance with this chapter and the state’s
Open and Public Meetings Act, being UCA §§ 52-4-1 et seq.
   (F)   Dedication of land to public. Acceptance of dedication of proposed
public lands, utility or street rights-of-way in an approved plan can be made
only by the County Commission, and only after review of title insurance by the
County Attorney.
   (G)   Application forms. Application for any required land use permit shall
be submitted on forms prepared for that purpose by the Zoning Administrator.
   (H)   Retention of plans. Plans, specifications and reports for all
applications submitted to the county shall become the property of the public
and shall be retained by the county in accordance with the Utah Government
Records Access and Management Act, UCA §§ 63G-2-101 et seq.
   (I)   Expiration.
      (1)   Unless there is substantial action under a land use permit within a
maximum period of one year from the date of its issuance, said permit shall
expire and shall have no further force or effect. Application for a building
permit, business license, subdivision and communication with the county
regarding requirements for proceeding toward other permit applications are
considered types of substantial action. Every conditional use permit shall run
with the land, unless specific conditions regarding time limitation are placed
on the permit which are necessary to mitigate potential detrimental effects.
      (2)   Unless otherwise prohibited, upon written request and for good
cause shown, any land use authority having authority to grant approval of an
application may, without any notice or hearing, grant extensions of any time
limits imposed by this chapter on such application, its approval or the
applicant, provided a written request for such extension has been received by
the Zoning Administrator prior to the date of expiration, or provided the
county has initiated an extension prior to the date of expiration. The total
period of time granted by any such extension or extensions shall not exceed
one-half the length of the original time period.
   (J)   Phased development. Land use application approval may be granted on
less than the entire parcel owned or controlled in certain situations, as
approved by the land use authority. The development of the project shall be in
an orderly manner and in such a way that the phases will be contiguous, the
required improvements will be made available for the full, effective and
practical use and enjoyment thereof by the lessees or the grantees of any of
the lands developed within the time hereinafter specified. Approvals are only
valid and vested as approved per a complete application submittal per phase,
and as per the specific conditions of approval for each phase. Subsequent
phases in a development shall be required to submit a complete application and
fees and to meet all submittal and review requirements for each phase based on
the land use regulations in place at the time of phase submittal, unless their
requirements are altered by other code provisions or development agreement.
   (K)   Changes. Any significant changes made in an approved drawing require
resubmission of the drawing for approval by the Planning Commission and
governing body, and additional fees may be required.
   (L)   Additional required information. The Planning Commission, governing
body, Zoning Administrator, County Planner, County Engineer, Building Official,
Fire Chief or County Attorney may require such additional information as
necessary to complete a proposal for the written record, demonstrate
capability, solve anticipated problems or show geotechnical solutions to site
development.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 11-03, passed 3-1-
2011; Ord. 12-04, passed 5-1-2012)
ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
§ 155.060 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the territory of the county, which has
adopted this chapter, is divided into one or more of the following listed
zoning districts as shown on the zoning maps on file in the county office.
   (A)   Multiple Use, Agriculture and Rural Residential Districts.
 
A-20    Agriculture District
F-1     Forestry District
MU-1 60 Multiple Use District
RR-1    Rural Residential District
RR-5    Rural Residential District
RR-10   Rural Residential District
 
   (B)   Residential and Multiple-Family Residential Districts.
 
R1-8  Residential District
R1-12 Residential District
R1-20 Residential District
RM-7  Multiple Residential District
RM-15 Multiple Residential District
 
   (C)   Commercial and Industrial Districts.
BP  Business Park District
CB  Commercial Buffer District
CH  Highway Commercial District
CS  Commercial Shopping District
GC  General Commercial District
I   Industrial District
LM  Light Manufacturing District
MGC Mountain Green Commercial District
NC  Neighborhood Commercial District
PC  Peterson Commercial District
TC  Town Center District
TPC Technical and Professional Campus District
 
   (D)   Special Districts and Overlay Zones.
 
AOZ Airport Overlay Zone
GH  Geologic Hazards
ROZ Redevelopment Overlay Zone
RSD Resort Special District
SA  Sensitive Area District
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1) (Ord. 17-36, passed 12-19-2017; Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-
2018)
§ 155.061 FILING OF TITLE AND MAP.
   This chapter and the map or maps shall be filed in the custody of the County
Clerk as provided by law and may be examined by the public subject to the
reasonable regulations established by the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010)
§ 155.062 RULES FOR LOCATING BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any district, the following
rules shall apply.
   (A)   Wherever the district boundary is indicated as being approximately
upon the centerline of a street, alley or block or along a property line, then,
unless otherwise definitely indicated on the map, the centerline of such
street, alley, block or such property line, shall be construed to be the
boundary of such district.
   (B)   Whenever such boundary line of such district is indicated as being
approximately at the line of any river, irrigation canal or other waterway,
railroad right-of-way, public park or other public land or any section line,
then in such case the center of such river or stream, canal or waterway or of
such railroad right-of-way, or the boundary line of such public land or such
section line, shall be deemed to be the boundary of such district.
   (C)   Where such district boundary lines cannot be determined by the above
rules, their location may be found by the use of the scale appearing upon the
map.
   (D)   Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the district
boundary location, the Planning Commission shall interpret the map.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010)
§ 155.063 AUTHORIZED USES WITHIN DISTRICTS ARE PLENARY.
   The uses of land allowed in each district shall be plenary and uses of land
not specifically allowed as set forth therein shall be prohibited in the
respective district.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-4) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010)
§ 155.064 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS IN EACH DISTRICT.
   In addition to the requirements imposed within each district, the
requirements contained in each of the various chapters and sections of this
chapter may apply. The applicability of an overlay district may also be
evidenced by notation on the zoning map.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-5) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010)
§ 155.065 LOTS LOCATED IN TWO OR MORE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   If a lot permitting residential uses is located within the boundaries
of two or more zoning districts, then a dwelling structure may be located
anywhere on such lot. Minimum area and frontage required by this chapter, shall
apply based on the zoning district in which the frontage is established and
located (example: RR-1 equals 200 feet).
   (B)   Yard, setback and coverage requirements shall be administered based on
the zoning district in which the structure is located.
   (C)   In no event shall there be located on such lot more than one dwelling
structure. From and after the construction of a dwelling structure on any such
lot, the lot may not be further subdivided.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-6) (Ord. 17-02, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 155.066 LOT AND PARCEL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Before a building permit may be issued on a lot or parcel, the following
requirements shall be met:
   (A)   Area, as is required by this chapter;
   (B)   Frontage, as is required by this chapter; and
   (C)   All other use and code requirements, except as noted in this chapter
(see §§
155.311 and
155.365 of this code).
(Prior Code, § 8-5-7) (Ord. 18-04, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 155.067 LOT AND PARCEL FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Property shall be contiguous fronting on one side of a single public
or private street or a private lane.
   (B)   An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the
frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts, or that common line
between a lot or parcel and a public right-of-way.
   (C)   Access shall be required by way of the lot or parcel’s frontage and
must meet driveway standards as set forth in §
155.427(R) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-8) (Ord. 18-04, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 155.068 FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESS EASEMENTS IN MU-160, F-1 AND A-20.
   (A)   Properties utilizing access easements for one dwelling unit are not
required to meet minimum frontage requirements in the MU-160, F-1 and A-20 Zone
Districts.
   (B)   Lots or parcels that are not adjacent to or share a boundary line with
a public or private road shall provide evidence of easements for access to the
property.
   (C)   Access easements shall be a minimum of 26 feet wide and shall be
recorded against adjacent properties in favor of the lot or parcel in
perpetuity and shall allow access for emergency personnel and apparatus, in
accordance with §
155.427(Q) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-9) (Ord. 18-04, passed 5-15-2018)
MULTIPLE USE, AGRICULTURE AND RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 155.080 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Multiple Use Districts. The purpose of providing a Multiple Use
District is to establish areas in mountain, hillside, canyon, mountain valley,
desert and other open and generally undeveloped lands where human habitation
should be limited in order to protect land and other open space resources; to
reduce unreasonable requirements for public utility and service expenditures
through uneconomic and unwise dispersal and scattering of population; to
encourage use of the land, where appropriate, for forestry, grazing,
agriculture, mining, wildlife habitat and recreation; to avoid excessive damage
to watersheds, water pollution, soil erosion, danger from brushland fires,
damage to grazing and livestock raising and to wildlife values; to avoid the
premature development of lands by discouraging intensive development until the
ultimate best use of the land can be recommended by the Planning Commission to
the governing body; and to promote the health, safety, convenience, order,
prosperity and general welfare of the inhabitants of the community.
   (B)   Forestry District.
      (1)   The purposes of providing a Forestry District are to encourage the
appropriate use of certain mountainous, hillside and canyon area of the county
for watershed, forestry, grazing, agriculture, wildlife habitat and limited
recreational uses, as well as the reduction of requirements for unreasonable
public utility and service expenditures which would be caused by concentrated
urban uses in the district; to protect watersheds and water supplies from
pollution; and to promote the health, morals, convenience, order, prosperity
and general welfare of the inhabitants of the county.
      (2)   The intent of providing a Forestry District is to separate those
areas of the county which should best remain relatively undeveloped from those
areas which can support greater development, as provided for and encouraged in
other districts.
   (C)   Agriculture Districts. The purposes of providing an Agriculture
District are to promote and preserve in appropriate areas conditions favorable
to agriculture and to maintain greenbelt spaces. These districts are intended
to include activities normally and necessarily related to the conduct of
agriculture and to protect the district from the intrusion of uses inimical to
the continuance of agricultural activity.
   (D)   Rural Residential Districts.
      (1)   The purposes of providing a Rural Residential District are:
         (a)   To promote and preserve in appropriate areas conditions
favorable to large lot family life;
         (b)   Maintaining a rural atmosphere;
         (c)   The keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl; and
         (d)   Reduced requirements for public utilities, services and
infrastructure.
      (2)   These districts are intended to be primarily residential in
character and protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-1)
§ 155.081 CODES AND SYMBOLS.
   In the following sections of this subchapter, uses of land or buildings
which are allowed in various districts are shown as “permitted uses,” indicated
by a “P,” “P1,” “P2” or “P3” in the appropriate column, or as “conditional
uses,” indicated by a “C1,” “C2” or “C3” in the appropriate column. If a use is
not allowed in a given district, it is either not named in the use list or it
is indicated in the appropriate column by a dash, “-.” If a regulation applies
in a given district, it is indicated in the appropriate column by a numeral to
show the linear or square feet required, or by the letter “A.” If the
regulation does not apply, it is indicated in the appropriate column by a dash,
“-.”
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-2) (Ord. 14-08, passed 12-4-2014; Ord. 15-02, passed 3-17-
2015)
§ 155.082 USE REGULATIONS.
   No building, structure or land shall be used, and no building or structure
shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained in the
Multiple Use, Agricultural or Rural Residential Districts, except as provided
in this subchapter.
 Districts
 MU- 160 F-1 A-20 RR- 10 RR- 5 RR- 1
                                                                             Districts
                                                                             MU- F- A- RR- RR- RR-
                                                                             160 1  20 10  5   1
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to conditional uses      C1  C1 C1 C1  C1  C1
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to permitted             P   P  P  P   P   P
agricultural uses
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to permitted uses        P   P  P  P   P   P
Agricultural and forestry:
   Agribusiness                                                           C2  -  C2 C2  C2  -
   Agriculture including allowing the raising, keeping, grazing and
pasturing of animals; the tilling of the soil; the raising of crops;         P   P  P  P   P   P
horticulture and gardening
   Apiary and aviary                                                      P   P  P  P   P   P
   Family food production                                                 P   P  P  P   P   P
   Farms devoted to raising and marketing chickens, turkeys or other fowl Pr  P  P  P   P   P
poultry, fish or frogs, mink or rabbits, including wholesale and retail sale
   Forest industry, such as a sawmill, wood products plant and the like   C2  C2 C2 -   -   -
   Forestry, except forest industry                                       P   P  P  P   P   P
   Fruit/vegetable stand                                                  C1  C1 C1 C1  C1  C1
Bed and breakfast inn                                                        C1  -  C1 C1  C1  C1
Cemetery:
   Private cemetery                                                       -   -  -  -   -   -
   Public cemetery                                                        C3  C3 C3 C3  C3  C3
Commercial recreation use (subject to regulations in §
155.348 of this code):
   Heli-skiing                                                            P1  P1 -  -   -   -
County fairgrounds uses                                                      -   -  C3 -   -   -
Dams and reservoirs                                                          C3  C3 C3 C3  C3  C3
Dude ranch (no separate cooking facilities in accessory lodging structures)  C2  C2 C2 -   -   -
Dwellings:
   Accessory apartment                                                    C1  -  C1 C1  C1  C1
   Homes or mobile homes on bona fide farms or for worker housing         C1  -  C1 -   -   -
   Recreation dwelling (shall not utilize the same minimum lot area as a  C1  C1 C1 -   -   -
main dwelling)
   Residential facilities for handicapped or elderly                      C3  -  C3 C3  C3  C3
   Single-family dwelling                                                 C1  -  P  P   P   P
Home occupation                                                              P   -  P  P   P   P
Household pets                                                               P   P  P  P   P   P
Kennel                                                                       C2  -  C2 C2  C2  -
Land excavations                                                             C2  C2 C2 C2  C2  C2
Mine, quarry, gravel pit, rock crusher, concrete batching plant or asphalt
plant, oil and gas wells, steam wells, test borings for exploration and the  C3  C3 C3 -   -   -
like
Mobile home developments, including mobile homes in mobile home parks/       A   A  A  A   A   A
subdivisions, are permitted in a planned district only
Power generation (commercial)                                                C2  C2 C2 -   -   -
Power generation (personal use)                                              C1  C1 C1 C1  C1  C1
Private park or recreational grounds, private recreational camps or resorts,
including accessory or supporting dwellings or dwelling complexes and        C2  C2 C2 -   -   -
commercial service uses owned or managed by the recreational facility to
which it is accessory
Public and quasi-public uses. Exception: Public school                       C3  C3 C3 C3  C3  C3
   Airports                                                               C3  C3 C3 -   -   -
   Specialized correction facilities                                      C3  -  C3 C3  C3  -
Public facilities or public service facilities. Exception: Governmentally
operated essential service facilities such as police, fire, ambulance        C3  C3 C3 C3  C3  C3
substations and animal control facilities
Public schools and governmentally operated essential service facilities      P   P  P  P   P   P
Public stable, riding academy or riding ring, horse show barns or other      C2  -  C2 C2  C2  -
equestrian facilities under single management
Railroad facilities and rights-of-way                                        C3  C3 C3 C3  C3  C3
Recreational vehicle storage (personal storage only)                         P   P  P  P   P   P
Religious uses (including churches, rectories and other faith-based uses)    P   P  P  P   P   P
Special uses:                  
   Child daycare centers, subject to regulations as set forth in §       -   -  C1 C1  C1  C1
155.347 of this code
Swimming pool (private)                                                      P   P  P  P   P   P
Temporary buildings for uses incidental to an approved construction project,
including temporary living quarters, which buildings must be removed within  C1  C1 C1 C1  C1  C1
90 days of completion or abandonment of the construction work
Temporary gravel pit, crusher, subject to the provisions of §               C3  C3 C3 C3  C3  -
155.090 of this code
Temporary meteorological monitor tower, subject to regulations in §         P   P  P  -   -   -
155.091 of this code
                                                                             Subject to
Temporary uses                                                               regulations in §
                                                                             155.324 of this code
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-3) (Ord. 10-11, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-
2010; Ord. 10-17, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 11-10, passed 6-21-2011; Ord. 11-11,
passed 9-20-2011; Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011; Ord. 12-01, passed 3-6-2012;
Ord. 14-08, passed 12-4-2014; Ord. 15-02, passed 3-17-2015; Ord. 15-06, passed
6-21-2015; Ord. 18-08, passed 11-13-2018; Ord. 20-10, passed 7-21-2020; Ord.
23-04, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 155.083 AREA REGULATIONS.
 
                                      Districts
                                      MU-160 F-1         A-20 RR-10 RR- 5 RR- 1
The minimum lot area in acres for any
main use in the districts regulated
by this subchapter, except as allowed
for utility uses and governmentally   160    1/4 section 20   10    5     1
operated essential service facilities
in §
155.326 of this code, shall be:
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-4) (Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 155.084 WIDTH AND FRONTAGE REGULATIONS.
 
                                                            Districts
                                                            MU- F-1   A-  RR- RR- RR-
                                                            160       20  10  5   1
The minimum width and frontage (see §§
155.066 through
155.068 of this code for frontage requirements) in feet for
any lot or parcel in the districts regulated by this        500 1,320 330 330 250 200
subchapter, except as allowed for utility uses and
governmentally operated essential service facilities in §
155.326 of this code, shall be:
Where lots have lot lines that are adjacent to and share a
boundary line with a public or private road, the minimum
lot width shall also be 70% of the minimum frontage along   350 924   231 231 175 140
that road. Wellhead protection zones must be wholly
contained on the lot
Lots that are not adjacent to or share a boundary line with
a public or private road shall provide evidence of          A   A     A   A   A   -
easements for access to the property. See §
155.427(Q) for access easement requirement
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-5) (Ord. 15-06, passed 6-21-2015; Ord. 18-04, passed 5-15-
2018; Ord. 21-01, passed 3-2-2021; Ord. 22-01, passed 1-4-2022)
§ 155.085 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard regulations.
 
                                  Districts
                                  MU-160 F-1  A-20    RR-   RR-   RR- 1
Accessory buildings may have the
same minimum front yard depth as
main buildings if they have the
same side yard required for main  8      8      8    8        8        8
buildings; otherwise, they shall
be set the following distance in
feet from the rear of the main
building
The minimum depth in feet for the
front yard for main buildings and
accessory buildings in districts  30     30     30   30       30       30
regulated by this subchapter
shall be:
Where the existing minimum right-
of-way on which the lot fronts is
less than 66 feet, the setback    63     63     63   63       63       63
shall be measured from the
centerline and in feet shall not
be less than:
Where the proposed minimum right-
of-way is more than 66 feet, the
setback in feet shall be 1/       A      A      A    A        A        A
2 proposed right-of-way plus 30
feet
 
   (B)   Rear yard regulations.
 
                                      Districts
                                      MU-160 F-1  A-20 RR-10 RR- 5 RR- 1
The minimum depth in feet for the rear yard in the districts regulated by
this subchapter shall be:
Accessory buildings                   10     10     10   10    10    10
Main buildings                        60     200    60   60    50    30
Utility facilities and governmentally 15     15     15   15    15    15
operated essential service facilities
 
   (C)   Side yard regulations.
 
                                      Districts
                                      MU-160 F-1  A-20 RR-10 RR- 5 RR- 1
The minimum side yard in feet for districts regulated by this subchapter
shall be:
Accessory buildings                   60     60     10   10    10    10
Main buildings                        60     60     60   60    20    15
Utility facilities and governmentally 15     15     15   15    15    15
operated essential service facilities
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-6) (Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 155.086 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The maximum height for all buildings and structures in districts regulated
by this subchapter shall be 35 feet, except as specifically provided for in
other sections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-7) (Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 155.087 COVERAGE REGULATIONS.
 
                                       Districts
                                        MU-160 F-1  A-20 RR-10 RR- 5    RR- 1
The maximum coverage in percent for any
lot in the districts regulated by this
subchapter, except as allowed for
utility uses and governmentally         -      -      -    5     10    20
operated essential service facilities
in §
155.326 of this code, shall be:
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-8) (Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 155.088 RECREATION DWELLINGS.
   Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the contrary, the following
additional provisions shall apply to recreation dwellings located in MU-160 and
F-1 Zones:
   (A)   Width and frontage regulations may be waived, provided the dwelling
and any accessory buildings are accessible by a legal right-of-way held by the
property owner;
   (B)   The dwelling and all accessory buildings shall be set back no less
than 200 feet from all property boundary lines;
   (C)   For legal conforming lots existing on or before March 1, 2001, the
minimum acreage for a recreation dwelling shall be 160 acres, or a one-quarter
section. For legal conforming lots created after March 1, 2001, the minimum
acreage for a recreation dwelling in the F-1 Zone shall be 320 acres or a one-
half section; and
   (D)   Prior to receipt of a building permit, the property owner must execute
and record as an addendum to their property deed, and show proof thereof to the
Building Inspector, an owner’s acknowledgment of responsibility and
indemnification in substantially the following form:
 
   Owner’s Acknowledgment of Responsibility and Indemnification
      State of Utah   )
               ) ss.
      Morgan County )
      We (I), the undersigned owners of the property located at (describe property boundaries) acknowledge and agree to maintain
and repair the private right-of-way, driveway or road accessing the property described herein and any dwelling or accessory
buildings located thereon, and to remove snow and otherwise maintain reasonable access to our (my) dwelling and accessory building
(s). We (I) agree that failure to maintain the road under all conditions may relieve Morgan County of emergency service
obligations. We (I) agree to indemnify and hold Morgan County harmless from any claim, damage or liability that may arise against
the county or its employees, agents or representatives related to our (my) failure to maintain the road under all conditions. We
further acknowledge that failure of the local jurisdiction or Planning Commission to observe or recognize hazardous, unknown or
unsightly conditions, or to recommend denial of this conditional use because of said unrecognized hazardous, unknown or unsightly
conditions shall not relieve the developer or owner from responsibility for the condition or damages resulting therefrom, and
shall not result in the local jurisdiction or Planning Commission, its officers or agents, being responsible for the conditions
and damages resulting therefrom.
      Subscribed and sworn to before me this        day of            , 20            
                                                                 
      Signature(s)
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-9)
§ 155.089 IMPROVEMENTS COMPLETED OR BONDED AND IN PROGRESS BEFORE BUILDING
PERMIT ISSUED.
   Improvements are to be in compliance with standards adopted by the county.
 Districts
 MU-160 F-1 A-20 RR-10 RR-5 RR-1
                                      Districts
                                      MU-160 F-1 A-20 RR-10 RR-5 RR-1
Address numbers                       A      A   A    A     A    A
Culinary water facilities2            A      A   A    A     A    A
Curb and gutter3                      -      -   -    -     -    -
Firefighting facilities2, 3           A      A   A    A     A    A
Sidewalk1                             -      -   -    -     -    -
Street base2                          A      A   A    A     A    A
Street dust treatment (oil or similar A      -   -    A     A    A
treatment)
Street grading2                       A      A   A    A     A    A
Streetlights1                         -      -   -    -     -    A
Street monuments1                     -      -   -    A     A    A
Street name signs1                    A      A   A    A     A    A
Street paving1                        -      -   -    A     A    A
Surface drainage facilities2          A      A   A    A     A    A
Survey monuments boxes1               A      A   A    A     A    A
Wastewater disposal facilities        A      A   A    A     A    A
Notes to table:
   1    Improvements are applicable only to subdivisions, unless
required by conditional use permit.
   2    Construction completed prior to issuing building permits.
   3    Indicates refer to fire officials for latest regulations.
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-10) (Ord. 10-11, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-13, passed 7-20-
2010)
§ 155.090 TEMPORARY GRAVEL PITS.
   (A)   In conjunction with an approved development or subdivision, the
Planning Commission may approve a temporary gravel pit and associated crusher
as a conditional use permit. Said gravel pit shall only be permitted in order
to provide materials used on the approved development or subdivision site
related to infrastructure, improvement installation or individual lot
improvements.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply.
      (1)   Distance to dwellings. Mining operations (including extraction,
stockpiling, staging, crushing) shall be located a minimum of 500 feet from any
existing dwelling.
      (2)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation shall be limited to 7:00
a.m. to 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
      (3)   Transportation of materials. Transporting of materials off-site is
prohibited. Only roadways within the development area shall be used for moving
materials.
      (4)   Safe operation. Operation must meet any and all county, state and
federal requirements for safety, noise, erosion and dust control as applicable.
      (5)   Site plan. The developer shall submit a site plan prepared by a
licensed surveyor and/or engineer detailing the location of all proposed uses
on the site, proposed berms or landscaping to be used for visual and/or noise
buffer, a metes and bounds description of the proposed extraction areas and
limits of disturbance, storm drainage, roadways, dust control and any other
information as applicable and requested.
      (6)   Reclamation plan. The developer shall submit a detailed reclamation
plan for the entire site, including extraction, staging, stockpiling and
crushing areas. Said plan shall be prepared by a licensed surveyor and/or
engineer and shall indicate proposed final slopes, placement and depths of
topsoil, soil and slope stability calculations and proposed vegetation
materials to be used.
      (7)   Budget for reclamation. The developer shall be required to submit
an estimated reclamation budget prepared by a qualified individual, taking into
account inflation projections based on the proposed length of operation.
      (8)   Bond or escrow. A condition of approval shall be the submittal of a
bond or escrow account in favor the county, in a form acceptable to the County
Attorney, in the amount of 115% of the estimated reclamation budget, as
approved by the County Engineer.
      (9)   Conditions for partial release. 
         (a)   Partial release of the escrow or bond shall be approved by the
County Engineer as the required reclamation improvements have been completed
and inspected.
         (b)   The 15% amount of the bond or escrow shall be retained for a
period of one year from the date of final inspection approval by the County
Engineer to guarantee the reclamation from defect in either, slope stability,
storm drainage or vegetation.
      (10)   Time limit for reclamation. Developer shall be required to reclaim
the site in accordance with the approved reclamation plan within six months
following the expiration of the conditional use permit or discontinued use of
the pit.
      (11)   Applicability to other provisions. Application under this section
shall not void or invalidate any other requirements for a gravel pit or
crushing operation as defined in other sections of this chapter.
      (12)   Further restrictions. The Planning Commission may place any
further restrictions or conditions with the conditional use permit, as deemed
appropriate to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
      (13)   Term of approval; extension.
         (a)   Approval shall be granted for a period of one year.
         (b)   The Planning Commission may grant extension of said approval in
one-year increments upon expiration of each approval period; provided, that the
development or subdivision has been approved for multiple phases; the developer
or designee has satisfactorily met all required conditions of the conditional
use permit; and the development has progressed in a timely manner as agreed
upon within the development agreement (when existing) and in accordance with
the approved phasing plan, evidenced by submission and approval of phased final
plats.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-11)
§ 155.091 TEMPORARY METEOROLOGICAL MONITORING TOWERS.
   (A)   Permitted as conditional use. Temporary meteorological monitoring
towers shall be permitted as a conditional use in conjunction with permitted
mining operations for the purpose of collecting air quality data, specifically
wind speed, direction, temperature, solar radiation, solar reflection and
humidity in the vicinity of said mining operation.
   (B)   Height limit. Towers shall be limited in height to 100 meters.
   (C)   Design. Towers shall be designed by a licensed engineer.
   (D)   Placement on property. Placement of the tower shall be located on a
property with consideration of neighboring land uses and facilitating maximum
safety.
   (E)   Bond required. The applicant shall post a bond in favor of the county
in an amount of 115% of the removal and site reclamation costs for the removal
of said temporary tower.
   (F)   Term of permit. The conditional use permit shall only be valid for a
period of 18 months from the commencement of construction with removal and
reclamation of the site within that period.
   (G)   Liability insurance. The owner shall provide to the county an
insurance policy releasing the county from liability in the event of any injury
resulting from said installation, operation, removal or failure of the tower
structure.
(Prior Code, § 8-5A-12)
RESIDENTIAL AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 155.105 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the following districts is:
   (A)   Residential District R1-20: To provide areas for very low density,
single-family residential neighborhoods of spacious and uncrowded character;
   (B)   Residential District R1-12: To provide areas for low density, single-
family residential neighborhoods of spacious and uncrowded character;
   (C)   Residential District R1-8: To provide areas for medium low density,
single-family residential neighborhoods where low and medium costs of
development may occur;
   (D)   Multiple Residential District RM-7: To provide areas for medium
residential density with the opportunity for varied housing styles and
character; and
   (E)   Multiple Residential District RM-15: To provide areas for medium high
residential density with the opportunity for varied housing styles and
character.
(Prior Code, § 8-5B-1)
§ 155.106 CODES AND SYMBOLS.
   In this subchapter, uses of land or buildings which are allowed in various
districts are shown as “permitted uses,” indicated by a “P” in the appropriate
column, or as “conditional uses,” indicated by a “C1,” “C2” or “C3” in the
appropriate column. If a use is not allowed in a given district, it is either
not named in the use list or it is indicated in the appropriate column by a
dash, “-.” If a regulation applies in a given district, it is indicated in the
appropriate column by a numeral to show the linear or square feet required, or
by the letter “A.” If the regulation does not apply, it is indicated in the
appropriate column by a dash, “-.”
(Prior Code, § 8-5B-2) (Ord. 14-08, passed 12-4-2014)
§ 155.107 USE REGULATIONS.
   No building, structure or land shall be used, and no building or structure
shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained in the
Rural Residential District, Single-Family Residential District or Multiple
Residential District, except as provided in this section.
 Districts
 R1-20 R1-12 R1-8 RM- 7 RM-15
                                                                              Districts
                                                                              R1- R1- R1- RM- RM-
                                                                              20  12  8   7   15
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to conditional uses       C1  C1  C1  C1  C1
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to permitted uses         P   P   P   P   P
Agricultural and forestry:
   Agriculture, including grazing and pasturing of animals; the tilling of P
the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture, and gardening
   Farm animals (see § 155.354)                                           P*  P*  P*  -   -
   Tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and gardening   P   P   P   P   P
Bed and breakfast inn                                                         -   -   -   -   -
Dwellings:
   Internal accessory dwelling unit                                        P   P   P   P   P
   Residential facilities for handicapped or elderly, provided they are    C3  C3  C3  C3  C3
separated at least 3/4 mile from another similar facility
   Single-family dwelling                                                  P   P   P   P   P
   Two-family dwelling                                                     -   -   -   P   P
   Three-family dwelling                                                   -   -   -   C2  C2
   Four-family dwelling                                                    -   -   -   C2  C2
   Multiple-family dwelling                                                -   -   -   C2  C2
   Two-family dwelling on corner lots requires 2 front and 2 side yards    -   -   -   A   A
 
 Districts
 MU- 160 F-1 A-20 RR- 10 RR- 55 RR-1
                                                                            Districts
                                                                            MU- F- A- RR- RR- RR-
                                                                            160 1  20 10  55  1
Dwellings:
   Homes or mobile homes on bona fide farms or for worker housing        C1  -  C1 -   -   -
   Internal accessory dwelling unit                                      P   -  P  P   P   P
   Recreation dwelling (shall not utilize the same minimum lot area as a C1  C1 C1 -   -   -
main dwelling)
   Residential facilities for handicapped or elderly                     C3  -  C3 C3  C3  C3
   Single-family dwelling                                                C1  -  P  P   P   P
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5B-3) (Ord. 10-11, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-
2010; Ord. 10-17, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 11-11, passed 9-20-2011; Ord. 11-15,
passed 11-1-2011; Ord. 12-01, passed 3-6-2012; Ord. 14-08, passed 12-4-2014;
Ord. 15-06, passed 6-21-2015; Ord. 20-10, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 21-09, passed
7-6-2021; Ord. 23-04, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 155.108 AREA REGULATIONS.
 
                                             Districts (In Square Feet)
                                             R1-20  R1-12  R1-8   RM- 7  RM-15
The minimum lot area in square feet for any
single-family dwelling structure in the      20,000 12,000 8,000  7,000  8,000
districts regulated by this subchapter shall
be:
The additional lot area in square feet for
each additional dwelling unit in a dwelling  -      -      -      6,000  3,500
structure shall be:
For group dwellings, the additional lot area
for each separate dwelling structure after
the first dwelling structure in square feet  -      -      -      5,000  3,500
shall be (in addition to that required
above):
Minimum lot area in square feet for all main
uses or buildings other than dwellings,
except as allowed for utility uses and       20,000 12,000 10,000 10,000 10,000
governmentally operated essential service
facilities in §
155.326 of this code, shall be:
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5B-4) (Ord. 18-03, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 155.109 WIDTH REGULATIONS.
 
                                                  Districts
                                                  R1-20 R1-1 2 R1-8 RM- 7 RM-15
The minimum width in feet for any lot in the
districts regulated by this subchapter, except as
allowed for utility uses and governmentally       100   90     70   70    70
operated essential service facilities in §
155.326 of this code, shall be:
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5B-5) (Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 155.110 FRONTAGE REGULATIONS.
 
                                                            Districts
                                                            R1- R1- R1- RM- RM-
                                                            20  12  8   7   15
The minimum width of any lot at the street right-of-way
line in feet in the districts regulated by this subchapter,
except as allowed for utility uses and governmentally       50  45  40  45  45
operated essential service facilities in §
155.326 of this code, shall be:
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5B-6) (Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 155.111 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard regulations.
 Districts
 R1-20 R1-1 2 R1-8 RM- 7 RM-15
                                                                              Districts
                                                                              R1- R1- R1- RM- RM-
                                                                              20  1 2 8   7   15
Accessory buildings may have the same minimum front yard depth as main
buildings if they have the same side yard required for main buildings;        10  10  8   6   8
otherwise, they shall be set back the following number of feet from the rear
of the main building
On corner lots, main buildings shall have 2 front yards and 1 rear yard, and  A   A   A   A   A
1 side yard
The minimum depth in feet for the front yard for main buildings and accessory 30  30  30  30  30
buildings in districts regulated by this subchapter shall be:
   Or the average of the existing buildings on the block where 50% or more of
the frontage is developed
   However, in no case shall it be less than                               25  25  25  20  20
   Or be required to be more than                                          30  30  30  30  30
 
   (B)   Rear yard regulations.
 
                                                   Districts
                                                   R1-20 R1-12 R1-8 RM- 7 RM-15
Accessory buildings                                10    10    -    -     -
Provided that on corner lots which rear on a side
yard of another lot accessory buildings in all     A     A     A    A     A
such districts shall be located not closer than 10
feet to such side yard
The minimum depth in feet for the rear yard in the 30    25    25   25    25
districts regulated by this subchapter shall be:
Utility facilities and governmentally operated     10    10    10   10    10
essential service facilities
 
   (C)   Side yard regulations.
 Districts
 R1-20 R1-12 R1-8 RM- 7 RM-15
                                                                            Districts
                                                                            R1- R1- R1- RM- RM-
                                                                            20  12  8   7   15
The minimum side yard in feet for any dwelling in districts regulated by    10  10  8   6   6
this subchapter shall be:
The total width of the 2 required side yards in feet shall be:              24  24  18  18  18
Except that in no case shall the total width of the 2 side yards be less    A   A   A   A   A
than the height of the building
Other main buildings shall have a minimum side yard in feet of              20  20  15  15  15
   And a total width of the 2 required side yards in feet of not less tha40  40  25  45  45
The minimum side yard in feet for a private garage or accessory building    10  10  6   6   6
shall be:
   Provided that no private garage or other accessory buildings shall be A   A   A   A   A
located in feet closer to a dwelling on an adjacent lot than 10 feet
On corner lots, main buildings shall have 2 front yards and 1 rear yard,    A   A   A   A   A
and 1 side yard
The side yard in feet shall not be less than                                10  10  8   6   8
Utility facilities and governmentally operated essential service facilities 10  10  10  10  10
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5B-7) (Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 155.112 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The maximum height for all buildings and structures in districts regulated
by this subchapter shall be 35 feet, except as specifically provided for in
other sections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-5B-8) (Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 155.113 COVERAGE REGULATIONS.
 
                                               Districts
                                               R1-2 0 R1-12 R1-8 RM- 7 RM-15
The maximum coverage in percent for any lot in
the districts regulated by this subchapter,
except as allowed for utility uses and         40     40    4035 35    50
governmentally operated essential service
facilities in §
155.326 of this code, shall be:
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5B-9) (Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011; Ord. 23-01, passed 2-7-
2023)
§ 155.114 DEPTH REGULATIONS.
 
                                                            Districts
                                                            R1- R1- R1- RM- RM-
                                                            20  12  8   7   15
The minimum depth of a lot in feet in districts regulated
by this subchapter, except as allowed for utility uses and  150 130 100 95  100
governmentally operated essential service facilities in §
155.326 of this code, shall be:
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5B-10) (Ord. 11-15, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 155.115 IMPROVEMENTS COMPLETED OR IN PROGRESS BEFORE BUILDING PERMIT ISSUED.
   Improvements are to be in compliance with standards adopted by the county.
 Districts
 R1-20 R1-12 R1-8 RM- 7 RM-15
                                               Districts
                                               R1-20 R1-12 R1-8 RM- 7 RM-15
Address numbers                                A     A     A    A     A
Culinary water facilities2                     A     A     A    A     A
Curb and gutter1, 2                            A     A     A    A     A
Firefighting facilities2, 3                    A     A     A    A     A
Public utilities (power, gas, telephone, cable A     A     A    A     A
television and the like)1
Sidewalk1                                      A     A     A    A     A
Street base2                                   A     A     A    A     A
Street grading2                                A     A     A    A     A
Streetlights1                                  A     A     A    A     A
Street monuments1                              A     A     A    A     A
Street name signs1                             A     A     A    A     A
Street paving1                                 A     A     A    A     A
Surface drainage facilities2                   A     A     A    A     A
Survey monuments1                              A     A     A    A     A
Wastewater disposal facilities                 A     A     A    A     A
Notes to table:
   1    Improvements are those applicable only to subdivisions, unless
required by conditional use permit.
   2    Construction completed prior to issuing building permits.
   3    Indicates refer to fire officials for latest regulations.
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5B-11) (Ord. 10-11, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-13, passed 7-20-
2010)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
§ 155.130 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the following districts is:
   (A)   Commercial Buffer District (CB). To provide areas for appropriate
transitions of commercial uses;
   (B)   Neighborhood Commercial District (NC). To provide areas in appropriate
locations where convenience buying outlets may be established to serve
surrounding residential neighborhoods. The regulations of this district are
designed to promote a combination of retail and service facilities which in
character and scale are necessary to meet day to day needs of area residents;
   (C)   Town Center District (TC). To provide areas in appropriate locations
where a combination of business, commercial, entertainment, residential and
related activities may be established and maintained. Regulations of this
district are designed to provide a compatible environment for commercial and
residential uses. The district has strict design standards for architecture,
landscaping and other performance requirements as reflected in §§
155.265 through
155.270 of this code. A mix of commercial and residential uses, in the same
building or on the same site is allowed in this zoning district;
   (D)   Commercial Shopping District (CS). To provide areas in appropriate
locations where a combination of businesses, commercial, entertainment and
related activities may be established, maintained and protected. The
regulations of this district are designed to promote and encourage the
development of comparison shopping centers;
   (E)   Highway Commercial District (CH). To provide areas in appropriate
locations adjacent to highways or major streets where activities dependent upon
or catering to thoroughfare traffic and the traveling public may be
established, maintained and protected. The regulations of this district are
designed to encourage harmony between traffic needs and centers for retail
commercial, entertainment, automotive facilities and other appropriate highway-
related activities;
   (F)   General Commercial District (GC). To provide areas in appropriate
locations where a combination of businesses, commercial, entertainment and
related activities may be established, maintained and protected. Regulations of
this district are designed to provide a suitable environment for those
commercial and service uses which are vital to economic life, but some of which
would be intrusive and disruptive in a shopping center type of commercial
development;
   (G)   Business Park District (BP). To provide areas for appropriate
transitions of between commercial uses and residential uses. Developments are
intended to reduce impact adjacent properties by using landscaping, setbacks
and building design;
   (H)   Technical and Professional Campus District (TPC). To provide areas for
the construction of research and development parks, educational facilities and
campuses, trade and technical schools and colleges, health care facilities
(including hospitals, clinics and labs) and other associated and allied
industries;
   (I)   Mountain Green Commercial District (MGC). To provide areas of
transition between technical and professional campus zoning and residential
uses within the Mountain Green area;
   (J)   Peterson Commercial District (PC). To provide areas of transition
between existing residential and agricultural uses and other zoning districts;
   (K)   Light Manufacturing District (LM). To provide areas in appropriate
locations where light manufacturing, industrial processes and warehousing not
producing objectionable effects may be established, maintained and protected.
The regulations of this district are designed to protect environmental quality
of the district and adjacent areas; and
   (L)   Industrial District (I). To provide for areas in appropriate locations
where heavy industrial processes necessary to the economy may be conducted. The
regulations of this district are designed to protect environmental quality of
the district and adjacent areas.
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-1) (Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.131 CODES AND SYMBOLS.
   In following sections of this subchapter, uses of land or buildings which
are allowed in various districts are shown as “permitted uses,” indicated by a
“P” in the appropriate column, or as “conditional uses,” indicated by a “C1,”
“C2” or “C3,” in the appropriate column. If a use is not allowed in a given
district, it is either not named in the use list or it is indicated in the
appropriate column by a dash, “-.” If a regulation applies in a given district,
it is indicated in the appropriate column by a numeral to show the linear or
square feet required, or by the letter “A.” If the regulation does not apply,
it is indicated in the appropriate column by a dash, “-.”
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-2) (Ord. 17-36, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 155.132 USE REGULATIONS.
   No building, structure or land shall be used, and no building or structure
shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained in the
Commercial and Industrial Districts, except as provided in this subchapter.
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to uses authorized by
conditional use permit in any district are also authorized by issuance of a
conditional use permit in any such district. “Temporary uses,” as defined in §
155.008 of this code, are authorized in any district upon issuance of a
conditional use permit for the same. All uses prohibited except as stated in
the use table.
 
C1 CUP Zoning Administrator
C2 CUP Planning Commission
C3 CUP County Commission
P  Permitted
 
 CB NC TC CS CH GC BP TP C MG C PC L M I
                                                                      CB NC TC CS CH GC BP TP MG PC L  I
                                                                                           C  C     M
Accommodation and food services:
   Banquet halls with catering staff                               -  -  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 -  -  -  -  -
   Bed and breakfast inns                                          C1 C1 P  C1 C1 C1 -  -  -  -  -  -
   Caterers                                                        -  -  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 -  -  -  -  -
   Coffee shops, on-premises brewing                               P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  C1 C
                                                                                                       1
   Health spas (i.e., physical fitness facilities) with            -  -  P  C2 C2 C2 C2 -  -  -  -  -
accommodations
   Hotels (except casino hotels)                                   C1 -  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 -  -
   Restaurants                                                     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  C1 C
                                                                                                       1
Agricultural:
   Agricultural industries                                         C2 -  -  -  -  -  C1 C1 C1 C1 P  P
   Agriculture: Tilling of soil, raising of crops and pasturing of P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
animals (non-intensive place holder until development occurs)
   Agriculture tourism                                             C1 C1 -  C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C
                                                                                                       1
   Dairy or food processing                                        C1 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C1 C
                                                                                                       1
   Mining or quarrying                                             -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P
Cemetery:
   Private cemetery                                                -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
   Public cemetery                                                 C3 C3 C3 -  -  C3 C3 C3 C3 C3 -  -
Construction:
   Construction; storage yard, equipment, materials                -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 -  P  P
   Construction; sub-contractors (painters, plumbers, HVAC and the -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 -  P  P
like)
   General contractors’ office                                   -  -  P  -  -  -  -  -  C2 -  P  P
Educational services:
   Academies, elementary or secondary                              P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -
   Boarding schools, elementary or secondary                       P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -
   Child day care centers (as defined in the state code)           P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Colleges and universities                                       P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Colleges, community                                             P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Colleges, universities, and professional schools                P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Elementary and secondary schools                                P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -
   Finishing schools, secondary                                    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Healthcare and social assistance offices                        P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   High schools                                                    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Junior high schools                                             P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Laboratories, medical and dental                                -  -  P  -  -  -  P  P  -  -  P  P
   Medical clinic                                                  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  C1 C
                                                                                                       1
   Military academies, elementary or secondary                     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
Entertainment:
   Art galleries (except retail)                                   -  -  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Art museums                                                     -  -  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Athletic club facilities, physical fitness, dance, gymnasiums,  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -
fitness centers
   Bowling alleys                                                  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -
   Bowling centers                                                 P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -
   Community museums                                               -  -  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Country clubs                                                   -  -  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -  -
   Drive-in motion picture theaters                                -  -  -  C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 -  C1 -
   Electronic game arcades                                         -  -  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -  -
   Family fun centers                                              -  -  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -  -
   Indoor play areas                                               -  -  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -  -
   Movie theaters (except drive-in)                                -  -  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 -  C1 -
   Pinball arcades                                                 -  -  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -  -
   Recreational sports club facilities                             P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -
   Rinks, ice or roller skating                                    P  P  -  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -
   Stables, horse racing                                           -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P  -  -  -  -
   Swimming pools                                                  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -
   Tennis club facilities                                          P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -
   Theater/cinemas                                                 C1 C1 P  P  P  P  C1 C1 -  -  -  -
   Video game arcades (except gambling)                            -  -  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -  -
Finance and insurance:
   Bank and financial services                                     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  C1 C1 C
                                                                                                       1
   Professional, scientific and technical service offices          P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  C1 C
                                                                                                       1
Manufacturing:
   Aircraft manufacturing and repair                               -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   All-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and parts manufacturing             -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Ammunition and mines manufacturing                              -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Automobile and automobile part manufacturing                    -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Automobile auctions, wholesale                                  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Bicycles and parts manufacturing                                -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Boats (i.e., suitable or intended for personal use) manufacturin-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Central-mixed concrete manufacturing                            -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 P
   Chemical and plastics manufacturing                             -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
   Computers manufacturing                                         -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Concrete batch plants (including temporary)                     -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 P
   Electronic manufacturing                                        -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Electronic markets, durable goods, wholesale trade              P  P  -  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  P  P
   Electronic markets, nondurable goods, wholesale trade           P  P  -  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  P  P
   Engine manufacturing                                            -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Food and beverage manufacturing                                 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Heavy industrial manufacturing                                  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 P
   Home fixture and furniture manufacturing                        -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Light industrial manufacturing                                  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P  P
   Machine shop and metal manufacturing                            -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 P  P
   Machinery and equipment manufacturing                           -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Medical manufacturing                                           -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C2 -  -  C2 P
   Metal manufacturing small or precision equipment                -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Motorcycles and parts manufacturing                             -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Paper product manufacturing                                     -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P
   Petroleum products manufacturing                                -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
   Pharmaceutical manufacturing                                    -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P
   Photovoltaic cells manufacturing                                -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Printing activities                                             -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Ready-mix concrete manufacturing and distributing               -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 P
   Semiconductor circuit networks (i.e., solid-state integrated    -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
circuits) manufacturing                                                                                2
   Semiconductor devise or related material manufacturing          -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Silicon parts, components or material manufacturing             -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Solar cells manufacturing                                       -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Textile, clothing, leather, leather and allied manufacturing    -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Truck or transit-mixed concrete manufacturing                   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 P
   Wholesale manufacturing and trade                               -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Wholesale trade and warehousing                                 -  -  -  -  C1 -  C1 -  -  -  P  P
   Woods product manufacturing (furniture)                         -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P  P
Office:
   Automobile rental (or other vehicle rental)                     -  -  -  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  P  -
   Commercials, television, production                             -  -  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 -  C1 -
   Computer data storage services                                  -  -  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 -  C1 -
   Data processing services                                        -  -  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 -  C1 -
   Film studios producing films                                    -  -  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 -  C1 -
   Libraries                                                       P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -
   Office, general use                                             P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  P  -
   Publishers (except exclusive internet publishing)               P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  P  -
   Record production, duplication or distribution                  -  -  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 -  C1 -
   Sound recording studios                                         -  -  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  P  -
Residential:
   Recreation vehicle parks                                        C1 -  -  C1 C1 C1 -  -  -  -  C1 -
   Residential care facilities                                     C1 -  -  C1 C1 C1 -  -  -  -  -  -
   Residential live-work                                           C3 C1 -  C3 P  P  -  -  -  -  -  -
   Residential units as part of a mixed-use development            -  -  P  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
   Retirement home/assisted living                                 -  C1 -  -  C1 -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Retail trade:
   Auto parts and supply stores                                    -  -  P  C2 C2 C2 -  -  -  -  P  P
   Auto salvage yards (i.e., retailing used auto parts)            -  -  -  C2 C2 C2 -  -  C2 -  C1 P
   Automobile dealers, new and used                                -  -  -  C2 C2 C2 -  -  -  -  P  P
   Camper dealers, recreational                                    -  -  -  C2 C2 C2 -  -  -  -  P  P
   Grocery                                                         -  P  P  P  P  P  P  C1 P  P  C1 C
                                                                                                       1
   Motor home dealers                                              -  -  -  C2 C2 C2 -  -  -  -  P  P
   Recreational vehicle (RV) dealers (campers, motor homes, boats, -  -  -  C2 C2 C2 -  -  -  -  P  P
ATV, motorcycles or similar)
   Retail store (not listed elsewhere)                             P  P  P  P  P  P  C1 C1 P  P  C1 C
                                                                                                       1
Transportation:
   Bus terminal or station                                         C1 C1 P  C1 P  C1 P  C1 C1 C1 P  P
Other services:
   Aircraft upholstery repair                                      -  -  -  P  P  P  P  -  P  -  P  P
   Animal clinic and hospital                                      C1 C1 P  -  P  -  C1 C1 C1 C1 P  P
   Automatic car wash, truck wash                                  C1 C1 P  P  P  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 P  P
   Automobile repair service                                       -  -  -  C2 C2 C2 C2 C2 -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       2
   Barber shops                                                    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -
   Beautician services                                             P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -
   Churches                                                        C2 C2 P  C2 C2 C2 C2 -  C2 -  -  -
   Commercial and industrial machinery and equipment (except       -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
automobile and electronic) repair and maintenance                                                      1
   Comprehensive healthcare facilities                             C1 C1 P  P  P  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 P  P
   Cosmetology salons or shops                                     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -
   Day spas                                                        P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -
   Drinking place (alcoholic beverages)                            C1 C1 P  P  P  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 -  -
   Drive-in restaurant                                             C1 C1 P  P  P  P  -  C1 C1 C1 -  -
   Engine repair, small engine                                     -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C1 P
   Esthetician (i.e., skin care) services                          P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -
   Fairgrounds                                                     -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C3 C
                                                                                                       3
   Furniture repair shops                                          -  -  -  P  P  P  P  -  P  -  P  P
   Gasoline service station                                        C1 C1 P  P  P  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 P  P
   Laundry services (laundromat, dry cleaner pick-up only)         C1 C1 P  P  P  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 P  P
   Liquor, packaged sales (check the state code)                   C1 P  P  P  P  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C
                                                                                                       1
   Parking garage                                                  P  C1 P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
   Radio and television communication facilities                   C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 P  P
   Repair shop (small equipment, personal items)                   C1 C1 -  C1 C1 C1 C1 P  C1 C1 P  -
   Sexually-oriented businesses, as defined in §                  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C
155.481 of this code                                                                                   3
   Storage facility enclosed                                       C1 C1 -  C1 P  P  C1 C1 C1 C1 C1 C
                                                                                                       1
   Storage outdoor                                                 C2 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  P  P
   Tailor                                                          P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
   Tanning salons                                                  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  -  -  -  -  -
   Tractor, farm or construction equipment repair and maintenance  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
services                                                                                               1
   Welding repair services (e.g., automotive, general)             -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  C2 C
                                                                                                       1
   Window shade repair and maintenance shops                       -  -  -  P  P  P  P  -  P  -  P  P
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-3) (Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-2018; Ord. 19-07, passed 12-3-
2019; Ord. 20-10, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 22-05, passed 2-1-2022; Ord. 23-09,
passed 6-20-2023)
§ 155.133 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The maximum height for all buildings and structures in districts regulated
by this subchapter, except as specifically provided for in other sections of
this chapter, shall be:
 
                  Districts
                  CB NC TC CS CH GC BP TPC MGC PC LM I
Feet              35 35 35 35 35 35 35 35  35  35 35 No limit
Number of stories 3  3  3  3  3  3  3  3   3   3  3  No limit
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-4) (Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.134 SETBACK AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   The minimum depth and/or length for yards in the districts regulated by this
subchapter shall be (in feet):
 
                                                            Districts
                                                                  TC  TC      C  G  B  TP MG P  L
                                                            CB NC Com Res* CS H  C  P  C  C  C  M  I
                                                                  *
Front yard                                                  25 25 10  25   25 25 25 25 25 25 25 25 2
                                                                                                   5
Rear yard                                                   20 20 5   20   20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 2
                                                                                                   0
Side yards                                                  10 10 5   10   10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 1
                                                                                                   0
Except as determined by CUP or for utility uses and
governmentally operated essential service facilities in §  A  A  A   A    A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A
155.326 of this code
*The setbacks for the Town Center Zone are divided into commercial (com) and residential (res) uses.
The setback shall be determined by the principal use of the property.
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-5) (Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.135 IMPROVEMENTS COMPLETED OR BONDED AND IN PROGRESS BEFORE BUILDING
PERMIT ISSUED.
   Improvements are to be in compliance with standards adopted by the county.
 Districts
 CB NC TC CS CH GC BP TP C MG C P C L M I
                                    Districts
                                    CB NC TC CS CH GC BP TP C MG C P C L M I
Address numbers                     A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Culinary water facilities           A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Curb and gutter1                    A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Firefighting facilities1,2          A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Public utilities: Power, gas,
telephone, cable television and the A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
like
Sidewalk                            A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Street base1                        A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Street grading1                     A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Streetlights                        A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Street monuments boxes              A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Street name and traffic signs       A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Street paving                       A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Surface drainage facilities1        A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Survey monuments                    A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Wastewater disposal facilities      A  A  A  A  A  A  A  A    A    A   A   A
Notes to table:
   1    Construction completed prior to issuing building permits.
   2    Indicates refer to fire officials for latest regulations.
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-6) (Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-2018)
COMMERCIAL DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.150 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the design standards as set forth in this subchapter is to
enhance the economic viability and aesthetic value of the county. These design
standards will also establish a unified mien of the rural recreational nature
for which the county is known.
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-7I) (Ord. 20-03, passed 4-21-2020)
§ 155.151 SCOPE.
   (A)   Any lot or parcel located within the Commercial Zoning District(s)
shall be subject to the standards and regulations of this subchapter.
   (B)   Such standards and regulations are intended to be in addition to
existing standards and regulations for subdivision of property and other
applicable regulations of this chapter.
      (1)   Design standards are required in addition to other standards set
forth in this chapter and are indicated by the verb “shall.” In the event of
conflict between this section and other applicable provisions of this chapter,
the more restrictive provision shall apply.
      (2)   Compliance with design standards will be evaluated during the
building and/or land use permitting process.
      (3)   Applicable zoning districts include:
Zoning Districts
Zoning Districts
BP  Business Park District
CB  Commercial Buffer District
CH  Highway Commercial District
CS  Commercial Shopping District
GC  General Commercial District
MGC Mountain Green Commercial District
NC  Neighborhood Commercial District
PC  Peterson Commercial District
TPC Technical and Professional Campus District
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-7II) (Ord. 20-03, passed 4-21-2020)
§ 155.152 NONRESIDENTIAL AND MIXED-USE DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   These standards are intended to improve the aesthetics and
functionality of nonresidential and mixed-use projects which help make the
county a more desirable place to live, conduct business and visit.
   (B)   The specific purposes of this section include:
      (1)   Creating a sense of place and identification by forming a built
environment that exudes quality and superior design;
      (2)   Prioritizing pedestrian travel with improved walkability and safety
while still accommodating automobiles through site design standards;
      (3)   Improving the aesthetics of nonresidential and mixed-use buildings
with durable materials and design variations through architectural design
standards;
      (4)   Conserve the use of water with xeriscaped areas that utilize
drought-tolerant trees and plant species through landscape standards; and
      (5)   Creating vibrant, healthy and sustainable nonresidential areas for
the citizens of the county.
   (C)   To meet the intent of this section, the following provisions shall be
applied to all new nonresidential and mixed-use developments and exterior
remodels within the Commercial Zones.
      (1)   Architectural standards.
         (a)   The design of a building shall be considered on all sides of the
building, with each facade being required to meet the terms of this section.
         (b)   The following architectural standards shall apply to new
development and exterior remodels of nonresidential properties within the
Commercial Zones.
            1.   General design concepts. Development shall be designed for its
specific context with a design unique to the Commercial Zones. Developments
containing two or more buildings shall possess a similar design theme, and the
site shall be designed such that the overall development is cohesive. Materials
should be complementary to building type, style, scale and finish. Colors that
conform to natural scenic beauty should be used to maintain the scenic nature
of the current community.
            2.   Entrances.
               a.   Street front entrances shall be developed on all new
buildings including sidewalk connections to the public sidewalk unless
otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
               b.   If approved differently by the Zoning Administrator, an
unobstructed sidewalk connection from the door location must be provided to
connect to the public sidewalk.
               c.   Areas between building entrances shall utilize sidewalks,
awnings, windows or other similar pedestrian friendly architectural features
(see Figure 155.152-1 below).
 
Figure 155.152-1: Area between building entrances is treated with awning and
windows to create a pedestrian friendly environment.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-24.png]
 
         (c)   Street facades. The facade that faces the street is the most
prominent in any nonresidential building. Buildings shall be designed with
large panes of glass on the main level oriented to the sidewalk (see Figure
155.152-2 below). The use of faux windows may be allowed if the use does not
allow for windows on all sides of the building. Unoccupied utility buildings
shall not be required to have large panes of glass facing the street.
 
Figure 155.152-2: Facade faces street with large panes of glass on first floor.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.png]
 
         (d)   Variation.
            1.   Nonresidential buildings shall be designed with architectural
wall variations spaced at intervals of 30 to 50 feet in linear width, depending
on the size of the project (see Figure 3 below).
            2.   The following architectural features shall be incorporated
into the design of each facade of the building:
               a.   Change in building materials;
               b.   Building projections measuring at least 18 inches to three
feet in depth based on the scale of the proposed building;
               c.   Roofline variations measuring at least three feet in
height; and
               d.   Awnings and lighting, or another architectural variation
approved on a case-by-case basis that creates visual interest.
 
Figure 155.152-3: Visual interest is created through variation in building
projections and construction materials.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.png]
 
         (e)   Vertical separation.
            1.   Buildings in excess of two stories in height shall exhibit
architectural detailing that establishes a vertical separation between lower
and upper stories (see Figure 155.152-4 below).
            2.   This may be accomplished by a mid-facade cornice or trim, a
change in material, style or color, a facade step-back or roofpitch with dormer
windows or other methods.
 
Figure 155.152-4: Vertical separation between stories has been established by a
change in building materials and architectural style.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.png]
 
 
         (f)   Building materials.
            1.   The majority of each facade (51% or more of the wall area
excluding windows and doors) shall be constructed of the following hard surface
building materials: Brick, stone, treated or split face decorative block (CMU),
fiber cement siding and panels, wood, concrete or other durable building
material as approved by the Planning Commission.
            2.   Stucco, EIFS or untreated concrete block (CMU) may be allowed
by the Planning Commission as an accent or secondary material only (see
Figure 155.152-5 below).
            3.   The Planning Commission may approve metal as an exterior
building material on a case-by-case basis if an applicant can show that the
type of metal is of a high grade and provides architectural quality to a
building (see
Figure 155.152-6 below).
            4.   Vinyl siding and standing seam metal (see
Figure 155.152-7) are prohibited for use as exterior wall building materials.
 
Figure 155.152-5: Building is constructed of rock and brick, with stucco
accents.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.png]
 
Figure 155.152-6: Metal used is of a high grade and provides an architectural
quality to the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.png]
 
Figure 155.152-7: Metal used is an industrial grade and has the look of
standing seam metal which detracts from the architectural quality of the
building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.png]
 
         (g)   Screening. Mechanical equipment shall be located or screened so
as not to be visible from public and private streets. Screens shall be
aesthetically incorporated into the design of the building, whether located on
the ground or the roof, and may include such treatments as balustrades, parapet
walls or landscaping. Screening materials shall be compatible with those of the
building.
         (h)   Building architectural orientation. Buildings shall have their
architectural orientation towards the front of the property. The front of the
property shall be defined as the street frontage from which the building is
accessed. Buildings on corner lot sites shall have an architectural orientation
towards each right-of-way.
      (2)   Site design standards. The following standards address building
orientation and pedestrian circulation for commercial areas of the Commercial
Zones, including streets, parking areas, sidewalks, plazas and other outdoor
places.
         (a)   Buildings shall be oriented to the right-of-way in order to
create a “street wall” along the street edge with a ten-foot front yard setback
to allow for some minor landscaped areas, courtyards or plazas.
         (b)   Office parks with two or more office buildings with a combined
total of 100,000 square feet or more may be oriented to an internal street or
common plaza of at least one-half acre in size in order to promote walkability
and functionality within the development. As part of the consideration, a
concept plan will be required to ensure the overall development is cohesive and
proper vehicular and pedestrian circulation is provided. When this development
option is utilized, a minimum of 50% of the street frontage shall have
buildings up to the street.
         (c)   In the case a project is located adjacent to a state road or
major arterial, a minimum 15-foot setback shall be required as measured from
the edge of right-of-way. Landscaping, courtyards and plazas are allowed within
the required setback; however, a drive-thru lane may not be allowed within the
required setback due to site impacts from potential street widening.
         (d)   The requirements of divisions (B)(2)(a) through (B)(2)(c) above
may be waived by the Planning Commission for institutional uses such as
hospitals, maintenance facilities, fire stations, public utility buildings,
transit stations, public schools or other institutional uses as determined by
the Planning Commission. The purpose of any waiver would be to allow
institutional uses that require access on all sides of the building flexibility
to be designed in a manner that promotes safety.
         (e)   Pedestrian circulation and street crossings: Nonresidential
projects shall provide a circulation plan and show the following site
improvements to improve pedestrian circulation and safety:
            1.   Pedestrian walkways that interconnect the adjacent street(s),
open spaces, parking areas, building entries and adjacent sites; walkways shall
be hard-surfaced with concrete or asphalt;
            2.   Crosswalks where pedestrian walkways cross streets and
internal roads shall be constructed of concrete or asphalt;
            3.   Raised central median strips, bulb-outs and other traffic
calming elements as required by the County Engineer on a case-by-case basis;
and
            4.   Master-planned trail connections where a project is located
adjacent to a master-planned development or county trail, the trail connection
shall be a minimum six feet in width and must be constructed of asphalt or
concrete.
         (f)   Paving and surface materials: Sidewalks and walkways shall be
constructed of concrete and include accent areas with similar materials. Color
tones should be medium to dark in order to create a uniform setting for the
surrounding building materials and colors.
         (g)   Fences and walls: In general, fences and walls shall be limited
to the rear and sides of buildings, helping to reinforce the feeling of rural
county as a small urban area. Fence and wall design shall conform to the
provisions set forth in §
155.345 of this code. Where possible, openings shall be provided in fences and
walls to provide pedestrian access to other neighboring nonresidential uses.
      (3)   Landscape treatments and embellishments. Landscaping shall be
installed in such a way that it enhances the built environment and creates an
aesthetically pleasing site. The following standards shall apply to new
development and renovations within the Commercial Zones:
         (a)   Street trees and landscape elements. Installing trees in
addition to the standards set forth in the Commercial Zone design standards and
public improvements specifications is encouraged. Small ornamental trees should
be avoided, and drought-tolerant species that will be large at maturity
encouraged.
         (b)   Xeriscape landscape. Xeriscape landscaping areas with the use of
native and drought-tolerant plant species provides improved aesthetics in
Commercial Zones. A minimum of 25% of the required open space area that is
improved must be xeriscaped.
         (c)   Street furnishings. Street furnishings should reflect the
character of the architectural and thematic style of the Commercial Zone.
Furnishings should be placed in safe, comfortable places and should take
advantage of key notes, plazas and views into and out of the site.
      (4)   Conflict. In the event that these provisions conflict with another
section of the county’s Land Use Management Code or General Plan, the more
restrictive provision shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-7III) (Ord. 20-03, passed 4-21-2020)
§ 155.153 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   These standards are intended to create multi-family developments that will
establish permanent neighborhoods and provide a sense of community. To meet the
intent of this section, the following provisions shall be applied to all new
multi-family residential and mixed-use developments, unless otherwise modified
by the Planning Commission. For exterior remodels, these standards shall be
required.
   (A)   Architectural standards.
      (1)   General design concepts.
         (a)   Development shall be designed for its specific context with a
design unique to the immediate area.
         (b)   Developments containing two or more buildings shall possess a
similar design theme, and the site shall be designed such that the overall
development is cohesive. Building architecture, exterior materials and colors
shall coordinate.
      (2)   Side and rear facades. These design standards shall be applicable
to all sides of a building, with each facade being required to meet the terms
of this section.
      (3)   Building materials.
         (a)   The majority of each facade (51% or more of the wall area
excluding windows and doors) shall be constructed of the following hard surface
building materials: Brick; stone; treated or splitface decorative block (CMU);
fiber cement siding; wood; concrete; or other durable building material as
approved by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   Stucco, EIFS or untreated concrete block (CMU) may be allowed by
the Planning Commission as an accents or secondary material only.
         (c)   The Planning Commission may approve metal as an exterior
building material and as a primary material on a case-by-case basis if an
applicant can show that the type of metal is of a high grade and provides
architectural quality to a building.
         (d)   Vinyl siding and standing seam metal are prohibited for use as
exterior building materials.
      (4)   Vertical separation. Buildings in excess of two stories in height
shall exhibit architectural detailing that establishes a vertical separation
between lower and upper stories. This may be accomplished by a mid-facade
cornice or trim, a change in material, style or color, a facade step-back or
roofpitch with dormer windows or other methods.
      (5)   Building entrances. Building entrances shall be oriented towards
the street or a common courtyard area and provide connecting pedestrian access
between the street or courtyard areas (see Figure 155.153-1 below).
 
Figure 155.153-1: Entrances are oriented to the street with rear-loading
garages.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.png]
 
      (6)   Detached appearance.
         (a)   Two family, three family and four family dwellings shall
maintain a single-family detached appearance to the greatest extent possible
(see
Figure 155.153-2 below).
         (b)   Instead of each unit mirroring the other, the dwellings shall be
designed so that they have the appearance of a large, single-family unit. This
can be accomplished by separating the entrance of one unit from the entrance to
the adjacent unit, or by utilizing grade changes and roofline variety.
 
Figure 155.153-2: Multi-family dwellings maintain the appearance of a larger
single-family dwelling.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-40.png]
 
      (7)   Variation. Multi-family dwellings greater than four units shall be
designed with architectural wall variations spaced at intervals of 30 to 50
feet in linear width, depending on the size of the project (see
Figure 155.153-3 below). The following architectural features shall be
incorporated into the design of the building: Change in building materials;
building projections measuring at least 18 inches to three feet in depth based
on the scale of the proposed building; roofline variations measuring at least
three feet in height; and awnings and lighting, or another architectural
variation as approved on a case-by-case basis that creates visual interest.
 
Figure 155.153-3: Visual interest is created through variation in building
projections and construction materials.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-42.png]
 
   (B)   Site design standards.
      (1)   Garages.
         (a)   Townhomes shall be designed oriented toward public roads with
rear-loading garages accessed by a paved parking area or alley way (see
Figure 155.153-4 below). Rear-loading garages are highly encouraged for
townhomes located on interior project roads with units oriented toward a road
or common courtyard area (see
Figure 155.153-4 below).
         (b)   Multiple unit structures shall have garages incorporated into
the primary structure with a minimum of 30% of the lower-level gross floor area
utilized as garage areas; additional garages may be detached from the principal
structure. A carport structure may be allowed in lieu of the 30% garage
requirement.
 
Figure 155.153-4: Garages are located on the rear side of the townhome units
with the front doors oriented to a courtyard area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44.png]
 
      (2)   Natural features. Townhome and multiple unit projects shall respect
and maintain natural features such as existing trees, hills, drainages,
wetlands, bodies of water or other natural features.
      (3)   Development plans.
         (a)   Development plans shall include a landscaping plan for the front
yards, which shall be installed by the developer.
         (b)   For projects with ten units or more, the landscaping plan shall
include at least one tree for every two dwelling units, half of which shall be
coniferous evergreen trees and one shrub of five-gallon size for each two
dwelling units. The coniferous trees shall be at least six feet in height and
the deciduous trees shall be at least two inches in caliper.
      (4)   Streets. Interior project streets shall include on-street parking,
curb extensions, sidewalk furniture and crosswalks.
      (5)   Fencing.
         (a)   Each multi-family dwelling project shall provide fencing along
interior property lines where incompatible or less intensive uses exist. The
required fencing must be a six-foot, sight-obscuring fence.
         (b)   Fences over four feet tall or sight-fencing shall not be located
between the buildings and the street. Where there is fencing located along the
street, openings in the fence shall be required to allow sidewalk access from
each building to the public sidewalk.
      (6)   Amenities. Each multi-family project with ten units or more shall
include amenities for the residents of the project. Because each project will
be different in nature, the amenities are likely to be different. The number of
amenities required shall be in proportion to the proposed number of units in
the development. Amenities shall be provided according to project size or
comparable equivalent amenities as required or recommended by the Planning
Commission and, if County Commission approval is required, as approved by the
County Commission. Amenities included are:
         (a)   Picnic areas. Picnic areas shall consist of a barbeque and two
tables on a concrete pad with a cover;
         (b)   Sports court. Sports courts shall be at least 500 square feet
and constructed with concrete or equivalent hard surface area;
         (c)   Playground. Playgrounds shall be constructed of commercial grade
materials and include equipment for younger children and older children;
         (d)   Club house. A club house shall be used for gatherings of
residents and be at least 750 square feet in size complete with restrooms;
         (e)   Pool. Pools shall be subsurface and be no less than 20 feet by
40 feet in size;
         (f)   Tennis courts. Tennis courts shall be professional regulation
size and be constructed of concrete or equivalent hard surface area; and/or
         (g)   Splash pad. Splash pads shall be at least 300 square feet in
size, include a minimum of three vertical spray features, and be constructed of
concrete.
      (7)   Street wall.
         (a)   Buildings shall be oriented to the right-of-way in order to
create a “street wall” along the street edge with no front yard setback except
to allow for some minor landscaped areas, courtyards or plazas.
         (b)   Parking shall not be located between the street and buildings
and shall be placed at the interior portion of the property (see Figure
155.153-5 below).
 
Figure 155.153-5: Apartment development with parking located on the interior
portion of the site and buildings oriented to the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.png]
 
      (8)   Xeriscaping. A minimum of 25% of the total landscape area must be
xeriscaped. Xeriscaping is strongly encouraged in passive open space areas with
turfgrass used in a central active open space area.
      (9)   Pedestrian circulation. Multi-family residential projects shall
provide a circulation plan and show the following improvements to improve
pedestrian circulation and safety:
         (a)   Pedestrian walkways that interconnect the adjacent street(s),
open spaces, parking areas, building entries, adjacent sites and adjacent
master-planned trails where applicable. Each building located along a public
road must provide a sidewalk connection from the building entrance to the
public sidewalk;
         (b)   Walkways shall be hard-surfaced with concrete or asphalt; and
         (c)   Crosswalks shall be placed where pedestrian walkways cross
streets and internal roads and shall be painted or made of concrete or asphalt.
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-7IV) (Ord. 20-03, passed 4-21-2020)
§ 155.154 CONNECTIVITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   These standards are intended to create a connected transportation
system between neighborhoods and commercial areas within the county.
   (B)   The specific purposes of this section include:
      (1)   Promoting walkability through additional connections and shorter
block lengths;
      (2)   Improving emergency response time;
      (3)   Increasing effectiveness of delivery access;
      (4)   Providing better routes to schools and parks;
      (5)   Reducing impacts of development on master-planned arterial and
collector roads by providing alternative routes; and
      (6)   Preventing isolated developments that increase dependency on
automobiles.
   (C)   To meet the intent of this section, the following provisions shall be
applied to all nonresidential developments within the Commercial Zones.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BLOCK LENGTH. The distance along any given road frontage between two
intersections with three or more connecting links (see Figure 155.154-1 below).
Links that connect into a cul-de-sac shall not be considered the termination
point of a block length.
 
Figure 155.154-1: Example block length measurements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-48.png]
 
         CHICANE. An extension of a curb typically on a local street to provide
an element of traffic calming.
         CONNECTIVITY INDEX. A ratio of roadway links and nodes that serves as
a metric for measuring the level of connectivity.
         CUL-DE-SAC LENGTH. The distance from the street intersection to the
throat of the cul-de-sac bulb (see Figure 155.154-2 below).
 
   Figure 155.154-2: Example of cul-de-sac length measurement.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-50.png]
 
         CURB EXTENSION. An extension of a curb in a roadway to narrow the road
at pedestrian crossings to provide additional safety for pedestrians and serves
as a traffic calming measure.
         LINKS. Streets that connect to nodes or external streets not included
in the proposed development.
         NODE. Street intersection or cul-de-sac located within a proposed
development. A street intersection exists where two or more named roads
intersect.
      (2)   Circulation plan. A circulation plan shall be provided as part of a
preliminary subdivision plat application.
         (a)   The circulation plan must address street connectivity,
pedestrian circulation, emergency access and parking movements. In cases where
cut-through traffic is likely, traffic calming measures such as curb
extensions, chicanes, raised crossings or other features may be required.
         (b)   The circulation plan shall show the connectivity index, block
length dimensions, cul-de-sac length dimensions, pedestrian facilities and any
proposed traffic calming features.
         (c)   The circulation plan must take into account access and
connectivity on adjacent parcels. On a case-by-case basis, the Planning
Director and County Engineer may require changes to stub road locations if it
will increase the connectivity within an adjacent property.
         (d)   A circulation plan will be required for proposed developments
with more than one acre in project size or with more than ten units. The
Planning Director and County Engineer may waive the requirement for a
circulation plan on a case-by-case basis.
      (3)   Nonresidential connectivity standards. All new nonresidential
subdivisions containing the dedication of public roads shall meet the following
connectivity index and block length standards. Private roads shall be reviewed
on a case-by-case basis: However, a public road may be required to prevent a
private road in a subdivision from stubbing into a future or existing public
road.
         (a)   Required connectivity index.
            1.   The minimum required connectivity index score shall be one and
one-half for nonresidential developments.
            2.   Reduction in required connectivity index: The required
connectivity index may be reduced if the applicant provides clear and
convincing evidence that it is impossible or impracticable to achieve due to
the following limitations:
               a.   Topography;
               b.   Natural features including lakes, rivers and designated
wetlands;
               c.   Existing adjacent development;
               d.   Rail corridors; and
               e.   Limited access roadways: Reductions in the required
connectivity index will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and must require
recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning Commission and
approval by the County Commission. The total allowed reduction to the required
connectivity index will be based on an analysis of existing conditions that
prevent connections. As part of the analysis, county staff will ensure the
internal connectivity of the subdivision meets the required connectivity index
and that connectivity is provided to adjacent properties where possible.
         (b)   Maximum block lengths. Maximum block lengths allowed shall be
500 feet for nonresidential subdivisions.
            1.   The maximum allowed block length may be increased if the
applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that it is impossible or
impracticable to achieve due to the following limitations:
               a.   Topography;
               b.   Natural features including lakes, rivers and designated
wetlands;
               c.   Existing adjacent development;
               d.   Rail corridors; and
               e.   Limited access roadways: Increases in block length will be
reviewed on a case-by-case basis and must require recommendations from the
reviewing departments and Planning Commission and approval by the County
Commission.
            2.   Cul-de-sacs shall not be allowed in any nonresidential zone
unless the applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that a cul-de-sac
is necessary to develop the entire parcel due to the following limitations:
               a.   Topography;
               b.   Natural features including lakes, rivers and designated
wetlands;
               c.   Existing adjacent development;
               d.   Rail corridors; and
               e.   Limited access roadways: Requests for cul-de-sacs within
nonresidential zones will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and must require
recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning Commission and
approval by the County Commission.
            3.   It is highly encouraged for nonresidential site plans to
provide cross-access to adjacent developments to allow auto and pedestrian
trips to occur between developments without the need of using the street (see
Figure 155.154-3 below).
 
Figure 155.154-3: Adjacent nonresidential uses provide cross-access which
reduces trips required on the surrounding streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-52.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-7V) (Ord. 20-03, passed 4-21-2020)
§ 155.155 OPEN SPACE CORRIDOR PRESERVATION.
   (A) Standards. These standards are intended to create a connected open space
corridor system between neighborhoods and commercial areas within the county.
The specific purposes of this section include:
      (1)   Promoting walkability through additional open space corridors;
      (2)   Preserve areas which allow for pedestrian access to the surrounding
area;
      (3)   Provide a buffer between residential, commercial and industrial
uses; and
      (4)   Providing better pedestrian routes to schools, parks, commercial
and industrial areas.
   (B)   Open space plan. An open space plan shall be provided as part of a
preliminary subdivision plat application. The open space plan must address
landscaping and pedestrian circulation in the open space areas and shall meet
the following requirements.
      (1)   Trails.
         (a)   Trails shall be placed in open space corridors to provide
pedestrian access to schools, parks, residential and commercial areas as part
of the overall pedestrian network
         (b)   Trails shall be maintained by private owners’ associations.
      (2)   Landscaping, landscape treatments and embellishments. Landscaping
shall be installed in such a way that it enhances the built environment and
creates an aesthetically pleasing open area.
         (a)   Street trees and landscape elements. Drought-tolerant species
that will be large at maturity shall be installed at least every 200 feet along
the open space corridors.
         (b)   Street furnishings. Street furnishings such as benches, small
play or exercise apparatus shall be installed in the open space corridor.
Furnishings should be placed in safe, comfortable places and should take
advantage of key notes, plazas and views into and out of the site.
         (c)   Xeriscape landscape. Xeriscape landscaping areas with the use of
native and drought-tolerant plant species provides improved aesthetics in
Commercial Zones. A minimum of 25% of the required open space area that is
improved must be xeriscaped.
         (d)   Exceptions. Requests for alternative open space corridor
standards will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and must require
recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning Commission and
approval by the County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8-5C-7VI) (Ord. 20-03, passed 4-21-2020)
SENSITIVE AREA DISTRICT
§ 155.170 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of the SA District is to designate and describe those
areas within the county that possess physical and/or environmental
characteristics which require special public consideration of use applications
which might affect the structure or the land; the management of surface or
subsurface water; safety of future land occupants due to increased fire or
storm hazards from the proposed development; or the uneconomic extension of
public facilities and services. Of specific concern is development in flood
prone areas, areas of steep slope, wetlands and other sensitive areas requiring
careful assessment prior to alteration.
   (B)   It is the intent of these regulations to permit the use of property,
while requiring design solutions which will avoid detrimental impacts on
sensitive natural areas, as well as provide protection from adverse natural
forces and hazards. Standards for said design solutions shall be as adopted
within this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-5E-1) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010)
§ 155.171 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a site where structures may be safely sited.
BUILDABLE AREAS must be clearly marked on the site plan and/or final approved
plat, as appropriate.
   DEVELOPMENT. Includes all critical and essential facilities, subdivisions,
single- and multi-family dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings,
additions to existing buildings, storage facilities, pipelines and utility
conveyances and other land uses.
   GOVERNING BODY. The County Commission.
   NONBUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a site where siting of habitable
structures is not permitted.
   SETBACK. An area within which support of habitable structures or critical
facilities is not permitted.
(Prior Code, § 8-5E-2) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010)
§ 155.172 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the SA District:
   (A)   Agricultural structures, accessory in nature to permitted uses;
   (B)   Horticulture and gardening, excluding agricultural industries;
   (C)   Raising of crops;
   (D)   Raising of livestock in accordance with underlying zone;
   (E)   Tilling of the soil; and
   (F)   Unoccupied recreational accessory structures, as permitted in
underlying zone (e.g., bowery).
(Prior Code, § 8-5E-3) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010)
§ 155.173 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The SA District is an overlay district whose sole effect is to require
additional review of proposed uses in the underlying districts. To this end,
any permitted use in a district overlain by an SA District, with the exception
of those uses permitted in §
155.172 of this code, is a conditional use. Conditional uses authorized in
districts overlaid by the SA District remain conditional uses.
(Prior Code, § 8-5E-4) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010)
§ 155.174 INCLUDED AREAS; MAP.
   (A)   The Sensitive Area Zoning District shall be as indicated on the
current Sensitive Area District overlay map, if a map exists, and included in
this code.
   (B)   The Sensitive Area District overlay shall also include areas of the
county not shown on the Sensitive Area District overlay map, but designated as:
      (1)   Areas designated as Zones A, AE, AH and AO on the Federal Emergency
Management Agency’s flood insurance rate maps for the county;
      (2)   Wetlands as defined by and within the jurisdiction of the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers;
      (3)   Other environmentally sensitive areas that the Planning Commission
and County Commission find to be of significance to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the county; and
      (4)   Drainage channels subject to flash flooding.
(Prior Code, § 8-5E-5) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010)
REDEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE
§ 155.185 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this zone is to provide for flexible utilization of land in
older developments, such as a downtown area or community center, where some of
the established land patterns and uses are nonconforming with respect to basic
planned community standards adopted in this chapter. When it is determined to
be in the interests of the community to foster appropriate utilization of
existing facilities, undersized lots or redevelop blighted areas, a conditional
use permit may be used to reduce parking requirements and/or otherwise modify
requirements for uses that will be beneficial to the area and harmonious with
the surroundings.
(Prior Code, § 8-5G-1)
§ 155.186 PERMITTED USES.
   None.
(Prior Code, § 8-5G-2)
§ 155.187 CONDITIONAL USES.
   All uses located within the limits of the Redevelopment Overlay Zone are
conditional uses and require issuance of a conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-5G-3)
§ 155.188 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Uses may be continued or changed.
   (B)   Buildings may be altered to accommodate new uses.
   (C)   Uses and buildings may be limited as to scope or length of time.
   (D)   Every conditional use permit and each approval shall be based
primarily on how the development, as proposed in the application, will
contribute to economic activity, compatibility, mutual private and public
benefit from existing, proposed or potential buildings and uses in the area;
the efficient, effective, economic and aesthetic use of land, buildings,
landscaping and amenities; and the improvements to be made in land utilization,
building construction and appearance, traffic safety and control, landscaping
and drainage.
   (E)   Conditional use permit approval process requires timely notification
of the municipal redevelopment agency to allow for analysis and input to the
process.
(Prior Code, § 8-5G-4)
§ 155.189 AREA, WIDTH, FRONTAGE, YARD, COVERAGE AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The same as in the underlying zone, except as may be modified by conditional
use permit after public hearing by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8-5G-5)
AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONE
§ 155.200 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The principal purpose of this subchapter is to provide land use
planners with guidelines for appropriately dealing with the reality that the
existence of the County Airport, and the conduct of flight operations from that
airport, are of such nature as to require careful consideration and the
exercise of a special and comprehensive evaluation process in connection with
any proposed rezoning and subsequent development in the vicinity of the
airport. This is in the interests of assuring, to the extent possible, that any
such rezoning and/or subsequent developments and the airport will be compatible
each with the other, and that neither will be inimical to the interests of the
other.
   (B)   Purposes subservient to this principal purpose include:
      (1)   To establish and define the boundaries (external boundary and
internal sub-boundaries) of the AOZ created by this subchapter within which
such special evaluation processes shall apply;
      (2)   To establish uniform standards and requirements that shall apply to
any proposed developments within the AOZ, whether on or off airport; and
      (3)   To establish standards for permitted and conditional uses (both on
and off airport), and to establish appropriate use restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 8-5H-1) (Ord. 20-15, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 155.201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity that involves, makes possible, or is
required for, the flight or ground operation of any aircraft, or which
contributes to or is required for the safety of such operation.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land which is used or intended for use for the landing
and taking off of aircraft, and any appurtenant areas which are used, or
intended for use, for aircraft buildings or other airport facilities or rights-
of-way, together with all airport buildings and facilities located on them.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Any activity involving “holding out to the public” and
that is conducted for personal or collective gain.
   COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. Any “aeronautical activity” that is
conducted as a “commercial activity,” as defined in this section. Examples
would include: Fixed base operator (FBO); air taxi and charter operation; pilot
training; aerial photography and surveying; aerial application of chemicals;
aerial advertising; aircraft sales and service; aircraft parking and storage;
sale of aviation petroleum products; maintenance and repair of aircraft; and
sale of aircraft parts. This term would include any entity performing as a
“specialized service operator” or as a “specialized aircraft service operator,”
as defined in this section.
   FIXED BASE OPERATOR (FBO). An entity performing a broad range of basic
aviation-related services, such as aviation fuel and oil sales, ramp parking
and tiedown, hangar storage, aircraft repair and parts sales, flight training
and the like.
   NONCOMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. Any “aeronautical activity,” as defined
in this section, that is conducted as a private venture and not for profit,
e.g., the operation of a personally-owned, leased or rented aircraft, keeping
of a personally-owned aircraft hangar, maintenance of a personally-owned
aircraft, operating as a “flying club” and the like.
   SPECIALIZED AIRCRAFT SERVICES OPERATOR. An entity providing repairs and/or
sale of aircraft radios, propellers, instruments, accessories, or, who performs
painting, upholstery or similar types of work or services.
   SPECIALIZED SERVICES OPERATOR. An entity providing only limited, specialized
aircraft-related services, such as flight training, glider towing, air taxi
operations, aircraft sales, aircraft and/or engine repair, aircraft rental or
other aeronautical-related service.
(Prior Code, § 8-5H-2) (Ord. 20-15, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 155.202 BOUNDARIES DESCRIBED.
   For the sake of convenience and uniformity, both the external boundary and
internal subboundaries shall conform to, and be defined by, certain of those
boundary criteria established in 14 C.F.R. part 77 (hereinafter referred to as
“Federal Aviation Regulations part 77” or “FAR part 77”) for purposes of
determining whether obstructions exist in navigable airspace.
   (A)   Outer boundary. Shall conform to that perimeter established by the
periphery of the “horizontal surface” described below and as set forth in 14
C.F.R. § 77.19. (A very close approximation of this boundary would be that line
drawn around the airport that is everywhere one mile from the nearest point on
the runway.)
   (B)   Primary surface. A surface on the ground and longitudinally centered
on the runway. This surface is 250 feet wide (125 feet each side of the runway
centerline) and extended centerline and extends 200 feet beyond each end of the
runway.
   (C)   Horizontal surface. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which is constructed by the arcs and lines
tangent to those arcs, constructed by swinging 5,000 feet lines from the center
of each end of the primary surface.
   (D)   Approach surface. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended
runway centerline and extending outward and upward for 5,000 feet at a 20 to
one slope from the two ends of the primary surface. The approach surface has a
width of 250 feet on the ground and widens uniformly to 1,250 feet at its outer
end.
   (E)   Transitional surface. Those surfaces starting at ground level and
extending outward and upward at right angles to the runway centerline and
extended centerline at a seven to one slope from the sides of the primary
surface and the approach surfaces, until intersecting the horizontal surface
defined in division (C) above.
   (F)   Runway Protection Zone (RPZ). The location and dimensions of the RPZ
are not defined in FAR part 77 (rather, this information is to be found in FAA
Advisory Circular (AC) 150/5300-13: Airport Design). However, since lying
within the AOZ, and since certain language in this subchapter is referential to
the RPZ, the location and dimensions of the RPZ are herewith described as
follows: “The RPZ is an area on the surface that begins at the end of the
primary surface and extends along the boundaries of the approach surface until
1,200 feet from the end of the runway.”
(Prior Code, § 8-5H-3) (Ord. 20-15, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 155.203 DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTIONS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Unfavorable rezoning. Future petitions for rezoning that will not be
favorably considered:
      (1)   Beneath the approach surfaces on both ends of the runway starting
at the runway ends and extending out, on the south end, to Old Highway Road,
and on the north end, for 2,500 feet, any residential rezoning to a materially
higher residential density (e.g., from a single-family residential to multi-
family residential) than was approved and in place on the effective date
hereof;
      (2)   Within the same areas described in division (A)(1) above, any type
of rezoning that would result in high concentrations of people (e.g., schools,
churches, medical facilities and the like);
      (3)   Beneath the approach surfaces, extending from the outer boundaries
established in division (A)(1) above, and on out to 5,000 feet, any residential
rezoning of an area more than one-acre in size to a more dense concentration
than RR-5 shall only be approved if the development proposal clusters the home
locations outside of the approach surface; and
      (4)   Along the northwest perimeter of the airport, rezoning from Light
Manufacturing (LM) to Residential any of the land within the following
described area: A strip starting at the runway centerline and extended
centerline, extending laterally outward for 500 feet and of a length such that
each end of this strip coincides with the outer end of the runway protection
zones (RPZ) on either end.
   (B)   Building restrictions within Runway Protection Zones (RPZ). No
structures shall be erected within either RPZ additional to those already in
place, unless, on the effective date hereof, either the erection of such
structure had been previously approved, or upon lots within the Cottonwood
Commercial Park as approved by conditional use permit in conformance with this
chapter.
   (C)   Construction standards. No person may construct, erect, remodel or
rehabilitate any structure upon the County Airport except in compliance with
all applicable codes, ordinances, FAA regulations and the approved airport
master plan. In addition, hangars and any other buildings in phase I of the
airport master plan that may be erected upon the airport, shall conform to the
following standards:
      (1)   Compliance with the architectural standards set forth in division
(D) below;
      (2)   Compliance with FAR part 77, as verified by an aviation impact
analysis from the FAA (Federal Aviation Administration), which analysis shall
be submitted with the application for building permit;
      (3)   Compliance with the Fire Code adopted by the county;
      (4)   Compliance with the Building Code adopted by the county, verified
by the county’s Building Department;
      (5)   The overall height of the exterior walls of any building shall not
exceed 15 feet, inclusive of the interior portion of any permitted stem or
foundation wall, which wall height shall be defined as the distance from the
upper surface of the interior floor to the lowest point that the plane of the
roof cladding intersects the plane of the wall cladding;
      (6)   The overall height of any building erected upon the airport, shall
not exceed 27 feet, measured from the top of the grade level floor to the
highest point of the roof of the building; and
      (7)   Hangars shall be oriented with the main hangar door (or front),
facing the ramp area adjacent to such hangar, and not the taxiway.
   (D)   Architectural standards. Each hangar or other building shall comply
with the following architectural and design standards:
      (1)   Buildings will be metal clad;
      (2)   Buildings will be white in color with green trim, referencing
existing hangers on the airport;
      (3)   Metal clad roof will be white in color to match the rest of the
building;
      (4)   Rooflines shall be a maximum of a four to 12 pitch; and
      (5)   Hangar roof peaks shall run from front to back, and not from side
to side.
(Prior Code, § 8-5H-4) (Ord. 18-09, passed 11-13-2018; Ord. 20-15, passed 10-
20-2020; Ord. 22-04, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 155.204 OTHER MANDATORY STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Conformance with FAR. All future development within the confines of
the AOZ (whether on or off airport) that will involve new construction or the
alteration of existing structures, shall be found to be in conformance with FAR
part 77 prior to approval.
   (B)   Procedure. The procedure for making this determination shall be:
      (1)   Determine whether proposed construction or alteration will be
captured by the following criteria (as extracted from FAR part 77.13):
         (a)   Will the construction or alteration exceed 200 feet in height
above the ground level at its site;
         (b)   Will the construction or alteration penetrate an imaginary
surface extending outward and upward at a 100 to one slope from the nearest
point on the runway; and
         (c)   Will the construction be on the airport itself?
      (2)   If the proposed construction or alteration is not captured by any
of the criteria in division (B)(1) above, then FAR part 77 requirements have
been satisfied. If the proposed construction or alteration is captured by any
of the criteria in division (B)(1) above, then prior to approval, the following
actions shall have been taken:
         (a)   The sponsor of the proposed construction or alteration shall
complete and transmit one completed set (four copies) of FAA form 7460-1,
notice of proposed construction or alteration, to the manager, Air Traffic
Division, FAA Regional Office in Seattle, the provisions of FAR part 77.17; and
         (b)   The FAA shall have acknowledged receipt, and responded with
findings, which, as a minimum, must include the finding that the proposed
construction or alteration would not be a hazard to air navigation. (Reference
14 C.F.R. § 77.19.)
(Prior Code, § 8-5H-5) (Ord. 20-15, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 155.205 ADDITIONAL EVALUATION GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Scope.
      (1)   Satisfaction of the mandatory requirement to comply with FAR part
77, airspace criteria, in no way either directly or indirectly ensures
compatibility of the proposed criteria in certain other areas of potential
conflict (principally, noise and safety). The nature and magnitude of such
conflict will vary based upon the following three principal factors:
         (a)   What is the nature of the proposed development;
         (b)   At what physical distance from the airport is it located; and
         (c)   Under which particular sub-boundary of the AOZ is it located
(e.g., approach surface, horizontal surface and the like)?
      (2)   Prior to conditional approval being granted for any off-airport
development within the AOZ, the relationship of the factors in division (A)(1)
above to the noise and safety factors will be carefully evaluated.
   (B)   Noise factor. This factor is essentially “people-related,” and becomes
significantly and progressively more important as larger numbers of people in a
“living environment” (homes, churches, schools and the like) are impacted.
Aircraft noise is generally much less a nuisance factor to people in a working
environment, particularly where that environment is industrial in nature. The
noise “footprint” to be expected is partly a function of pure physical distance
from the airport but is most significantly a function of the particular AOZ
subdivision below which or near, with the approach surface (and nearby areas)
experiencing the most frequent and loud noise signatures, because in these
areas the airplanes on takeoff are low, and are, of necessity, operating
engines at full power.
   (C)   Safety factor.
      (1)   It is a well-documented statistical fact that well over half of all
general aviation accidents that occur, occur on or within one mile of an
airport.
      (2)   The off-airport aircraft accident pattern is further concentrated
in and near the approach and departure flight paths. Consequently, the areas of
most critical concern for safety of persons on the ground near the airport
underlie the approach surfaces and near vicinities, and it is therefore
important to critically review proposed developments in these areas that would
involve large numbers of and/or dense concentrations of people (e.g., homes,
churches, schools and similar).
(Prior Code, § 8-5H-6) (Ord. 20-15, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 155.206 PERMITTED USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   On airport. On airport uses shall generally conform to those uses
falling within the purview of “aeronautical activity,” which is “any activity
that involves, makes possible or is required for the flight or ground operation
of any aircraft, or which contributes to or is required for the safety of such
operation.” Within this general guideline, specific activities shall be either
“permitted” or “conditional use” activities, as is outlined below:
      (1)   Noncommercial aeronautical activity. Any use falling within this
category shall be a “permitted activity.” (Examples would include the erection
and occupancy of privately-owned aircraft hangars; the basing, operation and
maintenance of personally-owned aircraft; and the like.) No private aircraft
owner shall be prohibited from performing, on his or her own equipment, those
specific preventative maintenance routines as are outlined in Appendix A of 14
C.F.R. part 77, whether such performance is within a privately-owned hangar, or
on a ramp or tiedown private hangar owners may maintain and/or store in their
hangars, such non-aeronautical equipment as boats, travel/utility trailers,
automobiles and the like, provided such use of that hangar is only incidental
and secondary to its primary use as an aircraft maintenance and/or storage
facility.
      (2)   Commercial aeronautical activity. No person shall conduct a
commercial activity of any nature that is based on or operated from the County
Airport, unless conduct of that activity has been approved by the County
Commission. Any aeronautical activity that is conducted as a “commercial
activity or enterprise.” (Examples of such activity would include: Fixed base
operator (FBO); air taxi and charter operation; pilot training; aerial
photography and surveying; aerial application of chemicals; aerial advertising;
aircraft sales and service; aircraft parking and storage; sales of aviation
petroleum products; maintenance and repair of aircraft; sales of aircraft parts
and the like.) Any use falling under this category shall be conducted under the
terms of both an appropriate conditional use permit and a business license.
Every person conducting any form of commercial activity on or from the County
Airport must maintain a public liability insurance policy, of a type and amount
approved by the County Commission.
      (3)   Non-aeronautical activity. Certain commercial activities of a
nature other than “aeronautical activity” may be permitted upon the airport;
provided, that such activities are not in any way inimical to any aeronautical
activity, and that the activity is of a type generally “service-orientated”
toward aeronautical activities (e.g., an airport food service facility). Any
such activity shall be conducted under the terms of both an appropriate
conditional use permit, and a business license.
   (B)   Off airport. Off airport permitted and conditional uses within the AOZ
shall conform to the nature of current zoning or such future rezoning as may be
petitioned for and approved, with the additional requirement that any
development within one-half mile laterally from the runway centerline and
extended centerline out to the periphery of the horizontal surface, will
require the execution of aviation and hazard agreements by all affected persons
(within the legal meaning of “person”), with all such agreements to “run with
the land.”
   (C)   Prohibited use. No on or off airport use is permitted that would
create an interference with radio signals between an aircraft and the airport,
impair flight visibility in the vicinity of the airport or would in any other
way create a hazard to, or endanger the takeoff, landing or airport vicinity
maneuvering of any aircraft.
(Prior Code, § 8-5H-7) (Ord. 20-15, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 155.207 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Measures necessary to satisfy the intent of this subchapter (e.g.,
denial of a petition for rezoning that is found to be inappropriate) shall be
accomplished, to the extent possible, through proper exercise of the police
power.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this subchapter to prohibit development of
property in the AOZ, but rather to ensure that such development occurs in a
manner that promotes harmony and enhances safety for the citizens of the
county.
(Prior Code, § 8-5H-8) (Ord. 20-15, passed 10-20-2020)
GEOLOGIC HAZARDS
§ 155.220 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter and the regulations and restrictions contained herein are
adopted and enacted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
county, protect the county’s infrastructure and financial health, and minimize
adverse effects of geologic hazards to public health, safety, and property by
encouraging wise land use;
   (B)   This subchapter and its appendices, on file with the County Clerk,
address surface fault rupture, slope stability, liquefaction, debris flow,
rockfall and avalanche hazards and present minimum standards and methods for
investigating and reporting on geologic hazards;
   (C)   The applicant shall present the results of geologic hazard
investigations in compliance with this subchapter and its appendices, on file
with the County Clerk. The standards set forth in this subchapter and the
appendices are minimum requirements. More complex projects may require more
detailed and in-depth investigations than outlined herein. In addition, the
appendices shall not supersede other more stringent requirements that may be
required by other regulatory agencies; and
   (D)   Geologic hazard study areas are defined in §
155.223 of this code. Site-specific geologic hazard investigations performed by
qualified, state-licensed engineering geologists shall be required prior to
developing projects located within a geologic hazards study area. In the event
known or readily apparent geologic hazards exist in an area subject to a
development application, and which area is not included in a geologic hazard
study area, the applicant shall nevertheless follow the process outlined in
this subchapter and submit the applicable investigation report.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-1) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.221 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTABLE AND REASONABLE RISK. No loss or significant injury to occupants,
no release of hazardous or toxic substances and minimal structural damage to
buildings or infrastructure during a hazard event allowing occupants egress
outside.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. Any structure not designed for human occupancy, which
may include tool or storage sheds, gazebos and swimming pools. Accessory
dwelling units and businesses located in ACCESSORY BUILDINGS must comply with
all requirements of main buildings.
   ACTIVITY CLASS OF FAULTS. The activity level of a fault is based on the
latest Western States Seismic Policy Council policy recommendation defining
“surface faulting,” which can be found at: (https://www.wsspc.org/publicpolicy/
adoptedrecommendations/). Currently, policy recommendation 18-3 states that
based on the time of most recent movement: Latest Pleistocene-Holocene faults
are defined as movement in the past 15,000 years, late Quaternary faults are
defined as movement in the past 130,000 years and Quaternary faults are defined
as movement in the past 2,600,000 years.
   ALLUVIAL FAN. A fan-shaped deposit where a fast-flowing stream flattens,
slows and spreads, typically at the exit of a canyon onto a flatter plain.
   AVALANCHE. A large mass of predominantly snow and ice, but may also include
a mixture of soil, rock and/or organic debris that falls, slides and/or flows
rapidly downslope under the force of gravity.
   BUILDABLE AREA. Based on an accepted geologic hazard investigation report,
the portion of a site not impacted by geologic hazards or the portion of a site
where it is concluded the identified geologic hazards can be mitigated to an
acceptable and reasonable risk. Buildable areas must be clearly marked on
approved site plans and/or final approved plats, as appropriate.
   COUNTY COMMISSION. The County Commission of Morgan County, Utah.
   CRITICAL FACILITIES. Essential, hazardous, special occupancy and all risk
categories III and IV structures, as defined in the currently adopted
International Building Code (IBC), and lifelines, such as major utility,
transportation, communication facilities and their connections to critical
facilities.
   DEBRIS FLOW. A slurry of rock, soil, organic material and water transported
in an extremely fast and destructive manner that flows down channels and onto
and across alluvial fans; includes a continuum of sedimentation events and
processes, including DEBRIS FLOWS, debris floods, mudflows, sheet flooding and
alluvial fan flooding.
   DEVELOPMENT. All critical facilities, subdivisions, single-family dwellings,
duplexes and multi-family dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings; also
includes additions to or intensification of existing buildings, storage
facilities, pipelines and utility conveyances and other land uses.
   ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST. A state-licensed professional geologist, who, through
education, training and experience, practices in the field of engineering
geology and geologic hazards meeting the requirements of §
155.225 of the code.
   ENGINEERING GEOLOGY. Geologic work that is relevant to engineering and
environmental concerns and the health, safety and welfare of the public.
ENGINEERING GEOLOGY is the application of geological data, principles and
interpretation affecting the planning, design, construction and maintenance of
engineered works, land use planning and groundwater issues.
   ESSENTIAL FACILITY. Buildings and other structures intended to remain
operational in the event of an adverse geologic event, including all structures
with an occupancy greater than 1,000 shall also be considered IBC Risk Category
III when not meeting the criteria for IBC Risk Category IV; and IBC Risk
Category IV buildings and other structures are designated as ESSENTIAL
(CRITICAL) FACILITIES.
   FAULT. A fracture in the Earth’s crust forming a boundary between rock and/
or soil masses that have moved relative to each other, due to tectonic forces.
When the fracture extends to the Earth’s surface, it is known as surface fault
rupture or a fault trace.
   FAULT SCARP. A steep slope or cliff formed by movement along a fault.
   FAULT SETBACK. A specified distance on either side of a fault within which
structures for human occupancy or critical facilities and their structural
supports are not permitted.
   FAULT TRACE. The intersection of a fault plane with the ground surface,
often present as a fault scarp, or detected as a lineament on aerial
photographs or other imagery.
   FAULT ZONE. A corridor of variable width along one or more fault traces,
within which ground deformation has occurred as a result of fault movement.
   GEOLOGIC HAZARD. A geologic condition that presents a risk to life, of
substantial loss of real property, or of substantial damage to real property
(UCA § 17-27a-103) and includes, but not limited to surface fault rupture,
liquefaction, landslides, slope stability, debris flows, rockfalls, avalanches,
radon gas and other hazards.
   GEOLOGIC HAZARD STUDY AREA. A potentially hazardous area as defined in §
155.223 of this code within which geologic hazard investigations are required
prior to development.
   GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER. A state-licensed professional engineer who, through
education, training and experience, is competent in the field of geotechnical
or geological engineering meeting the requirements of §
155.226 of this code.
   GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING. The investigation and engineering evaluation of
earth materials, including soil, rock and human-made materials and their
interaction with earth retention systems, foundations and other civil
engineering works. The practice involves the fields of soil and rock mechanics
and the earth sciences and requires the knowledge of engineering laws,
formulas, construction techniques and performance evaluation.
   GOVERNING BODY. The County Commission, or a designee of the Commission.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. The improvements which are required to be installed and
guaranteed in conjunction with an approved subdivision or other land use
approval. INFRASTRUCTURE may be public or private, on-site or off-site,
depending on development design and may include streets, curb, gutter,
sidewalk, water and sanitary sewer lines, storm sewers, flood control
facilities and other similar facilities.
   INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (IBC). The latest, statewide adopted
International Code Council International Building Code (UCA Title 15A, https://
le.utah.gov/xcode/Title15A/15A.html).
   LANDSLIDE. The downslope movement of a mass of soil, surficial deposits and/
or bedrock, including a continuum of processes between LANDSLIDES, earth flows,
debris flows, debris avalanches and rockfalls.
   LEGAL LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land which meets all zoning requirements to
be eligible for the development of a dwelling, habitable structure or other
facility or structure, pursuant to all county requirements.
   LIQUEFACTION. A sudden, large decrease in shear strength of a saturated,
cohesionless soil (generally sand and silt) caused by a collapse of soil
structure and temporary increase in pore water pressure during earthquake
ground shaking. May lead to ground failure, including lateral spreads and flow-
type landslides.
   LOT. A parcel or tract of land within a subdivision.
   MORGAN COUNTY. The County Public Works Director, Engineer, Planning and
Development Services Director, Zoning Administrator, Building Official,
Commission Administrator, County Commission, land use authority or another
county employee or designee.
   NON-BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a site which a geologic hazard
investigation report has concluded is impacted by geologic hazards that present
an unreasonable and unacceptable risk, and where the siting of habitable
structures, accessory structures which house an accessory dwelling unit or
business, or critical facilities, are not permitted.
   PARCEL. A piece of land created by a partition, subdivision, deed or other
instrument recorded with the appropriate recorder. This includes a lot, a lot
of record or a piece of land created through other methods.
   ROCKFALL. A rock or mass of rock, newly detached from a cliff or other steep
slope which moves downslope by falling, rolling, toppling and/or bouncing;
includes rockslides, rockfall avalanches and talus.
   SETBACK. An area subject to risk from a geologic hazard within which
habitable structures or critical facilities and their supports are not
permitted.
   SLOPE STABILITY. The resistance of a natural or constructed slope to failure
by landsliding and assessed under both static and dynamic (earthquake-induced)
conditions.
   SNOW AVALANCHE. See definition of “avalanche.”
   STRUCTURE DESIGNED FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY. Any residential dwelling or any
other structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or
occupancy by humans or businesses, includes all Risk Category II structures as
defined in the currently adopted International Building Code, but does not
include an accessory building which houses no accessory dwelling unit or
business.
   TALUS. Rock fragments lying at the base of a cliff or a very steep rocky
slope.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-2) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.222 APPLICABILITY.
   The regulations contained in this subchapter shall apply to all lands in the
unincorporated county.
   (A)   Every legal lot of record and lot in a proposed land subdivision,
within a geologic hazard study area as defined by this subchapter, must have a
buildable area safe for the intended use. Each buildable area must also have
access from the nearest existing public or private street which is free of
unreasonable and unacceptable geologic hazards. Any geologic hazards which must
be mitigated in order to provide a buildable area with acceptable and
reasonable access must be mitigated prior to issuance of the final plat
recordation.
The following are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter:
      (1)   Detached accessory buildings that are not designed for human
occupancy;
      (2)   Remodeling of existing structures designed for human occupancy if
no use change or expansion of the existing structure footprint is proposed; and
      (3)   Expansion of an existing structure where the structure and proposed
addition:
         (a)   Are not in IBC Risk Category III or IV;
         (b)   Are not in an area where a site-specific surface fault rupture
investigation is required per §
155.236(D);
         (c)   Are not in an area where slope stability analyses are required
per §
155.236(E); and
         (d)   The area of the addition does not exceed 1,000 square feet or
the original structure footprint, whichever is left.
         (e)   Demolition and replacement of a home or structure made for
habitation shall be exempt from the requirements of this section. This shall
include demolition due to acts of God as well.
      (4)   Other properties may also be exempt from certain study
requirements, as identified in §
155.236 of this code.
   (C)   As defined in the currently statewide adopted 2018 International
Building Code (IBC), Table 1604.5, the county considers IBC Risk Category III
buildings and other structures to represent a substantial hazard to human life
in the event of failure, except that any structure with an occupancy greater
than 1,000 shall also be considered IBC Risk Category III when not meeting the
criteria for IBC Risk Category IV; and IBC Risk Category IV buildings and other
structures are designated as essential (critical) facilities.
   (D)   Individual property owners of a lot or parcel or subdivision
application may use the county’s hazard webmap to determine if there are any
known hazards for the subject property. If the map shows known hazards then
geohazard ordinance reports are required as outlined herein. However, if there
are no known hazards as defined below then the property owner may sign an
affidavit for assumption of liability waiver. If an affidavit is signed and
notarized waiving all county liability then no geohazards report as defined
herein shall be required. If the property is developed, or split with hazards
on a portion of the lot or parcel, or within the subdivision boundary, the
hazard map may still be used if no structure shall be located within the hazard
area and if that area will not be disturbed by construction of other
infrastructure or structures.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-3) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021; Ord. 24-12, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.223 GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY AREAS.
   Geologic hazard study areas are defined as, but not necessarily be limited
to:
   (A)   Areas designated as Qc, Qm, Qmrf, Qms, Qms1, Qmsb, Qmsh, Qmsy, Qmso,
Qmt, Qmc, Qmg, Qac, Qg, Qga, Qgy, Qgmy, Qgo, Qgao, Qgm, Qgmo, Qmdf, Qaf, Qafy,
Qafo, Qaf1-5, Qafb, Qafp, Qafoe, Qgr, Qmtr, Qmy, Qct and Tn on the most recent
geologic maps published by the state’s Geological Survey (UGS, https://
geology.utah.gov/). Most maps are available in the UGS interactive geologic map
portal (https://geology.utah.gov/apps/intgeomap/), but contact the UGS for
interim, progress update and other non-final maps that may be available, but
not online; unit Qal, in and of itself, does not require a geologic hazard
investigation unless other qualifiers exist, as identified in §
155.236 of this code;
   (B)   Landslide areas identified in the UGS Utah Landslide Database,
available online at: (https://gis.utah.gov/data/geoscience/landslides/);
   (C)   Areas requiring slope stability analyses as defined in §
155.236 of this code below;
   (D)   All properties subject to debris flows; and
   (E)   Site-specific surface fault rupture investigations are required for
all critical facilities and structures for human occupancy (International
Building Code (IBC) Risk Category II, III and IV) along latest Pleistocene-
Holocene faults, and for critical facilities (IBC Risk Category IV) along late
Quaternary and Quaternary faults. For noncritical facilities for human
occupancy (IBC Risk Category II and III) along late Quaternary and Quaternary
faults, investigations are recommended, but not required. See the UGS Utah
Quaternary Fault and Fold Database to locate Quaternary age faults within the
county and to determine their activity class (https://geology.utah.gov/apps/
qfaults/index.html).
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-4) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021; Ord. 24-12, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.224 RESPONSIBILITY FOR GEOLOGIC HAZARD INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   If a property owner (individual lots, parcels, or subdivision
applicants) uses the county owned and maintained hazard webmap and that map
shows that there are no known hazards or relevant soils, slopes, etc. as
defined above then the property may sign an affidavit of liability waiver and
no geohazards report shall be required. If the property is split with hazards
on a portion of the lot or parcel, or within the subdivision boundary, the
hazard map may still be used if no structure shall be located within the hazard
area and if that area will not be disturbed by construction of other
infrastructure or structures.
   (B)   Geologic hazard investigations often involve both engineering geology
and geotechnical engineering.
   (C)   Engineering geology investigations shall be performed under the direct
supervision of a state-licensed professional geologist specializing in
engineering geology as defined in §
155.225 of this code.
   (D)   Geotechnical engineering investigations shall be performed under the
direct supervision of a state-licensed professional engineer specializing in
geotechnical engineering as defined in §
155.226 of this code. Licenses may be verified with the state’s Division of
Occupational and Professional Licensing (https://secure.utah.gov/llv/search/
index.html) .
   (E)   If the property owner wishes to contest the map and believes that
there are no hazards due to slope, soil, etc., then they may opt for a geologic
hazards reconnaissance where they shall be required to hire a licensed
geologist to do preliminary site work to make a determination if the map is
incorrect. A report will be required to be submitted by the applicant’s
geologist with stamp and signature. This shall be reviewed by the county
geologist who will make the final determination if a full report will be
required.
   (F)   The digging of test pits in the area of the foundation shall not be
permitted to prevent compromising the stability and integrity of the site.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-5) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021; Ord. 24-12, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.225 MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS OF THE ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST.
   (A)   Engineering geology and the evaluation of geologic hazards is a
specialized discipline within the practice of geology requiring the technical
expertise and knowledge of techniques not commonly used in other geologic
investigations. Therefore, geologic hazard investigations involving engineering
geology and geologic hazard investigations shall be conducted, signed and
sealed by a state-licensed professional geologist specializing in engineering
geology and geologic hazards. Proof of qualifications shall be provided to the
county upon request.
   (B)   The minimum qualifications required by the county for an engineering
geologist, include:
      (1)   An undergraduate or graduate degree in geology, engineering geology
or geological engineering or closely related field, from an accredited college
or university; and
      (2)   Five full-time years of experience in a responsible position in the
field of engineering geology and geologic hazards in the state, or in a state
with similar geologic hazards and regulatory environment and experience
demonstrating the geologist’s knowledge and application of appropriate
techniques in geologic hazard investigations.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-6) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.226 MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS OF THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   Evaluation and mitigation of geologic hazards often require
contributions from a qualified geotechnical engineer, particularly in the
design of mitigation measures. Geotechnical engineering is a specialized
discipline within the practice of civil engineering requiring the technical
expertise and knowledge of techniques not commonly used in civil engineering.
Therefore, geologic hazard investigations that include engineering design and
related tasks shall be conducted, signed and sealed by a state-licensed
professional engineer, specializing in geotechnical engineering and geologic
hazards. Proof of qualifications shall be provided to the county upon request.
   (B)   The minimum qualifications required by the county for a geotechnical
engineer, include:
      (1)   A graduate degree in civil or geological engineering, with an
emphasis in geotechnical engineering; or a B.S. degree in civil or geological
engineering with 12 semester hours of post B.S. credit in geotechnical
engineering, or course content closely related to evaluation of geologic
hazards, from an ABET accredited college or university; and
      (2)   Five full-time years of experience in a responsible position in the
field of geotechnical engineering and geologic hazards in the state, or in a
state with similar geologic hazards and regulatory environment, and experience
demonstrating the engineer’s knowledge and application of appropriate
techniques in geologic hazard investigations.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-7) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.227 PRELIMINARY ACTIVITIES.
   This section shall apply to any geologic hazard investigation for the
purpose of determining the feasibility of land use approval for a concept plan;
preliminary or final plat approval; a commercial, institutional or one-, two-
or multi-family dwelling conditional use permit; site plan approval; or for the
purpose of exploring, evaluating or establishing locations for permanent
improvements. A geologic hazard report shall be submitted to the county as part
of the land use application, pursuant to the requirements of this subchapter,
for any proposed development in a geologic hazard study area.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to a land use application, the applicant shall schedule a
scoping meeting with the county to evaluate the engineering geologist’s or
geotechnical engineer’s investigative approach. The investigation approach
shall allow for flexibility due to unexpected site conditions. Field findings
may require modifications to the work plan. Upon completion of a scoping
meeting, an application for an excavation or grading permit, as necessary, may
be submitted to the county. At this meeting, the applicant shall present a work
plan that includes the locations of anticipated geologic hazards and proposed
subsurface exploratory excavations, such as test pits, trenches, borings and
cone penetrometer test (CPT) soundings, which meet the minimum acceptable
regional standards of practice, this subchapter, the adopted appendices on file
with the County Clerk, and includes:
         (a)   A property location map;
         (b)   A geologic map;
         (c)   A topographic map with contours;
         (d)   A slope map or lidar imagery, if available;
         (e)   A map showing the location of the proposed development,
including structures, roads, depths of basements and foundations and the like;
locations of proposed subsurface exploration, such as trenches, borings, test
pits and the like; with a description of the proposed development; and
         (f)   A map showing the slope stability analysis cross-section
locations.
      (2)   The applicant’s professional consultants will find geologic
information available from the UGS and other sources useful in planning site
development, preparing for the scoping meeting and in performing geologic
hazard investigations. Available UGS information includes:
         (a)   Geologic maps (https://geology.utah.gov/apps/intgeomap/);
         (b)   Geologic hazard maps and data (https://geology.utah.gov/hazards/
info/maps/);
         (c)   Aerial photographs: (https://geology.utah.gov/resources/data-
databases/aerial-_photographs/);
         (d)   Prior geologic and geotechnical reports (https://
geodata.geology.utah.gov); and
         (e)   Other information (https://geology.utah.gov).
      (3)   Lidar elevation data are available at (https://gis.utah.gov/data/
elevation-and-terrain/) and (http://opentopography.org).
   (B)   The county will arrange for a state-licensed professional geologist,
specializing in engineering geology, to attend the scoping meeting on behalf of
the county, at the applicant’s expense. The county’s geologist will provide
verbal feedback to the applicant and consultants regarding the proposed work
plan and the requirements of this subchapter. Reimbursement to the county for
the direct costs of any outsourced staff shall be paid by the applicant prior
to the acceptance of a land use or building permit application.
   (C)   As required by this code and except as otherwise noted herein, no
person shall commence or perform any land disturbance, grading, excavation,
relocation of earth or any other land disturbance activity, without first
obtaining an excavation or grading permit. Application for an excavation or
grading permit shall be filed with the county on forms furnished by the county
for such purposes only after a scoping meeting has taken place.
   (D)   The applicant shall specify a primary contact responsible for
coordination with the county during the land disturbance activities.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-8) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.228 RESERVED.
§ 155.229 GEOLOGIC HAZARD INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any applicant requesting land use approval for a concept plan;
preliminary or final plats; a commercial, institutional or one-, two- and
multi-family dwelling conditional use permit; or site plan approval on a parcel
or parcels of land within a geologic hazard study area or where there are known
or readily apparent geologic hazards and the area is not included within a
current geologic hazard study area, shall submit to the county three wet-
stamped paper copies and one unlocked, digital PDF copy of a site-specific
geologic hazard investigation report that specifically relates to the geologic
hazards present and affecting on the site.
   (B)   A field review by the county is required during subsurface exploration
activities conducted for geologic investigations (test pits, trenches, drilling
and the like) to allow the county to evaluate the subsurface conditions, such
as the age and type of deposits encountered and the presence or absence of
faulting, with the applicant. Discussions about questionable features or
appropriate setback distances are appropriate, but the county will not assist
with field logging, explaining stratigraphy or give verbal approval of the
proposed development during the field review. Exploratory trenches, when
excavated, shall be open, safe and in compliance with applicable federal
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the state and other excavation
safety regulations, have the walls appropriately cleaned, and a field log
completed by the time of the review. The applicant must provide a minimum
notice of 48 hours to schedule the field review with the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-10) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.230 SUBMITTAL AND CERTIFICATION OF GEOLOGIC HAZARD REPORTS.
   (A)   All applicants for land use approval within a geologic hazard study
area shall prepare and submit a geologic hazard report (may be combined with a
geotechnical and/or other geologic reports) pursuant to the requirements of
this subchapter prior to any consideration for a concept plan; preliminary or
final plat; commercial, institutional or one-, two- and multi-family dwelling;
or any conditional use permit which requires site plan approval. Additionally,
the applicant is required to submit the following additional information:
      (1)   A written, stamped certification from a state-licensed professional
geologist that the geologic hazard report has been prepared pursuant to the
requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   A written, stamped certification from a state-licensed professional
geologist and a professional engineer that every proposed development lot,
building pad and parcel does not present an unreasonable or unacceptable risk
to the health, safety and welfare of persons or property, including buildings,
storm drains, public streets, culinary water facilities, utilities or critical
facilities, whether off-site, on adjacent properties or on-site, because of the
presence of geologic hazards or because of modifications to the site due to the
proposed land use;
      (3)   A written, stamped certification from a state-licensed professional
geologist and a professional engineer that every proposed development lot,
building site and parcel layout demonstrates that, consistent with regional
standards of practice, the identified geologic hazards can be mitigated to a
level where the risk to human life and damage to property are reduced to an
acceptable and reasonable level in a manner which will not violate applicable
federal, state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations. Mitigation
measures shall consider in their design, the intended aesthetic functions of
other governing ordinances of the county;
      (4)   A written, stamped certification from a state-licensed professional
geologist and a professional engineer along with a mitigation plan, if
necessary, that demonstrates that the identified hazards or limitations will be
addressed without impacting or adversely affecting off-site areas, including
adjacent properties. Mitigation measures must be reasonable and practical to
implement and shall not require ongoing maintenance by property owners; and
      (5)   Written verification from the issuer of professional errors and
omissions liability insurance, in the amount of $2,000,000 each, which covers
the state-licensed professional geologist and professional engineer, and which
are in effect on the date of preparation and submittal of all required reports
and certifications.
   (B)   The county may set other requirements as are necessary to mitigate any
geologic hazards and to ensure that the purposes of this subchapter are met.
These requirements may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Additional or more detailed investigations and professional
certifications to understand or quantify the hazards and/or determine whether
mitigation measures recommended in the report are adequate;
      (2)   Specific mitigation requirements, establishing buildable and non-
buildable areas, limitations on slope grading, controls on grading and/or
revegetation;
      (3)   Prior to receiving a grading, excavation or building permit, final
grading plans, when required, shall be prepared, signed and sealed by the
state-licensed professional engineer and the engineering geologist
(professional geologist) and geotechnical engineer (professional engineer) that
prepared the geologic hazard and geotechnical report(s) to verify that their
recommendations have been appropriately incorporated in the final grading plan
and that building locations are approved;
      (4)   As built grading plans, when required, shall be prepared, signed
and sealed by the state-licensed professional geologist and professional
engineer that prepared the geologic hazard and geotechnical report(s) to verify
that their recommendations have been appropriately incorporated and that
building locations are approved, prior to the issuance of a building permit;
      (5)   Grading plans, when required, shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
         (a)   Maps of existing and proposed contours and the source and
accuracy of topographic data used;
         (b)   Present and proposed slopes for each graded area;
         (c)   Existing and proposed drainage patterns;
         (d)   Location and depth of all proposed cuts and fills;
         (e)   Description of the methods to be employed to achieve soil and/or
rock stabilization and compaction, as appropriate;
         (f)   Location and capacities of proposed structures, and drainage and
erosion control measures based on maximum runoff for a 100-year storm or
greater;
         (g)   Location of existing buildings, structures, roads, wells,
retention and other basins, and on-site sewage disposal systems on or within
100 feet of the site that may be affected by the proposed grading and
construction; and
         (h)   A plan for construction monitoring and documentation of testing,
field inspection during grading and reporting to the county.
      (6)   Installation of monitoring equipment for surface and subsurface
geologic conditions, including determining groundwater levels; and
      (7)   Other requirements, such as time schedules for completion of the
mitigation and phasing of development.
   (C)   The county may also set requirements necessary to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the county, protect the county’s
infrastructure and financial health and minimize potential adverse effects of
geologic hazards to the public health, safety and property as a condition of
approval of any development which requires a geologic hazard report.
   (D)   The county may require the engineering geologist and geotechnical
engineer that prepared the geologic hazard and/or geotechnical report(s) to be
on-site, at the cost of the applicant, during certain phases of construction,
particularly during grading phases and the construction of retaining walls in
excess of four feet in exposed height and geologic hazard mitigation.
   (E)   The county shall review any proposed land use that requires
preparation of a geologic report under this subchapter to determine the
possible risks to the health, safety and welfare of persons, property and
county infrastructure from geologic hazards.
      (1)   Prior to consideration of any request for preliminary plat approval
or site plan approval, the geologic report, if required, shall be submitted to
the county for review.
      (2)   The county will complete each review in a reasonable time frame,
not to exceed 45 days.
      (3)   All direct costs associated with the review of the geologic report
shall be paid by the applicant.
      (4)   The county shall determine whether the report complies with the
following standards:
         (a)   A suitable geologic hazards report has been prepared by
qualified, state-licensed professionals;
         (b)   The proposed land use does not present an unreasonable risk to
the health, safety and welfare of persons or property, including buildings,
storm drains, public streets, culinary and other water facilities, utilities or
critical facilities, whether off-site or on-site, or to the aesthetics and
natural functions of the landscape, such as slopes, streams or other waterways,
drainage or wildlife habitat, whether off-site or on-site, because of the
presence of geologic hazards or because of modifications to the site due to the
proposed land use;
         (c)   The proposed land use demonstrates that, consistent with the
current, regional state of practice, the identified geologic hazards can be
mitigated to a level where the risk to human life and damage to property are
reduced to an acceptable and reasonable level in a manner which will not
violate applicable federal, state and local statutes, ordinances and
regulations. Mitigation measures should consider in their design, the intended
aesthetic functions of other governing ordinances, such as the county’s
Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone. The applicant must include with the geologic
report, a mitigation plan that defines how the identified hazards or
limitations will be addressed without impacting or adversely affecting off-site
areas. Mitigation measures must be reasonable and practical to implement,
especially if such measures require on-going maintenance by property owners;
and
         (d)   Should a geologic report be found deficient with respect to this
subchapter and/or the current, regional state of practice, a letter will be
provided to the applicant summarizing the specific deficiencies. If a report is
found deficient three times or a report was excessively deficient, the county
may notify the state’s Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing
about the licensed professional(s) deficient reports that were submitted to a
public entity that were not in compliance with Utah Admin. Code R156-76-502
(professional geologists) and/or R156-22-502 (professional engineers).
   (F)   For any real property with respect to which development has proceeded
on the basis of a geologic hazard and/or geotechnical report which has been
accepted by the county, no final inspection shall be completed, certificate of
occupancy issued, or performance bond released until the engineering geologist
and geotechnical engineer who signed, stamped and approved the report(s),
certifies in writing, that the completed development, improvements and
structures conform to the descriptions and requirements contained within the
report, and that all the required inspections were made and approved by the
engineering geologist and geotechnical engineer that prepared said report(s).
If the preparing engineering geologist and geotechnical engineer are
unavailable, an engineering geologist and geotechnical engineer, similarly
qualified and licensed in the state, shall provide the certifications.
   (G)   An applicant may appeal any decision made under the provisions of this
subchapter only after the land use authority has issued a final decision and
shall set forth the specific grounds or issues upon which the appeal is based.
The appeal shall be submitted in writing to the county in accordance with the
appeals provisions of this chapter and current state code.
   (H)   The county shall retain a copy of each geologic hazard and/or
geotechnical report in the Planning and Development Services Department project
file, which will be available for public inspection and will provide a copy to
the UGS for archiving. Currently, the UGS archives these reports in the GeoData
Archive System (https://geodata.geology.utah.gov/pages/
search.php?search=!collection476).
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-11) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.231 DISCLOSURE WHEN A GEOLOGIC HAZARD REPORT IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a geologic hazard report is required under this subchapter;
the owner of the lot or parcel shall record a notice running with the land on a
form provided by the county prior to the approval of any development or
subdivision of such parcel or commencement of construction activity. The notice
shall be recorded against the property in the County Recorder’s office as per
the recording standards.
   (B)   Disclosure shall include signing a disclosure and acknowledgment form
provided by the county, which includes:
      (1)   Notice that the parcel is located within a geologic hazard study
area or as otherwise defined in this subchapter; and
      (2)   Notice that a geologic hazard report was prepared and is available
for public inspection in the county’s files.
   (C)   Where geologic hazards, related setbacks and non-buildable areas are
delineated in a subdivision, the owner shall also place additional notification
on the plat stating the above information, prior to final approval of the plat
by the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-12) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.232 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   The geologic hazard study areas designated herein represent only those
potentially geologic hazardous areas known to the county and should not be
construed to include all possible potential hazard areas. The geologic hazard
ordinance and the geologic hazard study areas may be amended as new information
becomes available, pursuant to procedures set forth in §
155.223 of this code.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter do not in any way ensure or imply
that areas outside the geologic hazard study areas are free from the possible
adverse effects of geologic hazards. This subchapter shall not create any
liability on the part of the county, its officers, reviewers or employees
thereof, for any damages from geologic hazards that result from reliance on
this subchapter or any administrative requirement or decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-13) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.233 CHANGE OF USE.
   No change in use which results in the conversion of a building or structure
from one not used for human occupancy to one that is so used shall be permitted
unless the building or structure complies with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-14) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.234 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   In cases of conflict between the provisions of existing zoning
classifications, Building Codes, the subdivision ordinance or any other
ordinance of the county and the geologic hazard ordinance codified in this
subchapter, the most restrictive provision shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-15) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.235 COUNTY HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Applicants receiving any permit or approval within a geologic hazard
study area shall be required to sign and record on the property a hold harmless
agreement.
   (B)   An example of such an agreement is presented in Appendix A, on file
with the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-16) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 155.236 GEOLOGIC HAZARD INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Each geologic hazard investigation and report shall be site-specific
and shall identify all known or suspected potential geologic hazards, whether
previously identified or unrecognized, that may affect the subject property,
both on and adjacent to the property, a geologic hazard report may be combined
with a geotechnical report and/or contain information on multiple hazards;
   (B)   All geologic hazard reports shall meet the submittal and preparation
requirements of this subchapter, its appendices, UGS Circular 122: Guidelines
for Investigating Geologic Hazards and Preparing Engineering-Geology Reports,
with a Suggested Approach to Geologic-Hazard Ordinances in Utah, Chapter 2
(https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/circular/c-122.pdf), and the
following:
      (1)   A one to 24,000 scale geologic map with references, showing the
general surface geology, including landslides, rockfall, alluvial fans, bedrock
geology where exposed, bedding attitudes, faults, other geologic structural
features and the location of any other known geologic hazards;
      (2)   A detailed site geologic map and geologic cross-section(s), at a
scale equal to or more detailed than one inch equals 100 feet to illustrate
local geologic structure. The site geologic map shall include locations of all
subsurface exploratory trenches, test pits, borings and the like, and site-
specific geologic mapping performed as part of the geologic hazard
investigation, including boundaries and features related to any geologic
hazards, topography and drainage. The site geologic map must show the location
and boundaries of the property, geologic hazards, delineation of any
recommended setback distances from hazards and recommended locations for
structures. Buildable and non-buildable areas shall be clearly identified;
      (3)   Trench and test pit logs, when applicable, prepared in the field
with standard geologic nomenclature at a scale equal to or more detailed than
one inch equals five feet. Final, drafted logs may also be submitted with the
field prepared logs;
      (4)   Boring logs, when applicable, prepared with standard geologic and
engineering nomenclature;
      (5)   Conclusions and recommendations, clearly supported by adequate
data, included in the report, that summarize the characteristics of the
geologic hazards and that address the potential effects of the geologic
conditions and geologic hazards on the proposed development and occupants
thereof, particularly in terms of risk and potential damage;
      (6)   An evaluation of whether mitigation measures are required,
including an evaluation of multiple, viable mitigation options that include
specific recommendations for avoidance or mitigation of the effects of the
hazards, consistent with the purposes set forth in §
155.220 of this code, including design or performance criteria for engineered
mitigation measures and all supporting calculations, analyses, modeling or
other methods and assumptions. Final design plans and specifications for
engineered mitigation must be signed and stamped by a qualified, state-licensed
geotechnical, civil and/or structural engineer, as appropriate;
      (7)   A statement shall be provided regarding the suitability of the site
for the proposed development from a geologic hazard perspective;
      (8)   All geologic hazard reports shall include the qualifications and
original signature and professional seal(s), both in blue ink, of the
qualified, state-licensed professional(s); and
      (9)   When a submitted report does not contain adequate data to support
its findings, additional or more detailed investigations shall be required by
the county to explain and/or quantify the geologic hazard and/or to describe
how mitigation measures recommended in the report are appropriate and adequate.
   (C)   When a final geologic hazard report indicates that a geologic hazard
does not exist within an adopted geologic hazard study area indicated by a map
referenced by this subchapter, the county will consider the new geologic
information in potentially revising the adopted hazard maps to remove the
specific area from the adopted geologic hazard study area. The county will also
forward this information to the state’s Geological Survey for potential update
of its hazard maps.
   (D)   Surface fault rupture is a displacement of the ground surface along a
tectonic fault during an earthquake. If a fault were to displace the ground
surface beneath a building or other structure, significant structural damage or
collapse may occur, possibly causing injuries and loss of life. As a result,
the county requires site-specific surface fault rupture hazard investigations
and submittal of a report for all properties that contain Quaternary faults,
depending on the fault activity level and the IBC Risk Category of proposed
structures. These investigations and reports shall, as appropriate, conform
with the Guidelines for Evaluating Surface Fault Rupture Hazards in Utah (UGS
Circular 122 https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/circular/c122.pdf), and:
      (1)   The requirement for site-specific investigation of surface faulting
depends on fault activity level as defined by the most recent Western States
Seismic Policy Council (WSSPC) policy recommendation (https://www.wsspc.org/
public-policy/adopted-recommendations/) for faults that cross properties with
proposed structures. The current policy recommendation is 18-3: Definitions of
Recency of Surface Faulting for the Basin and Range Province and defines latest
Pleistocene-Holocene, late Quaternary and Quaternary faults as:
         (a)   Latest Pleistocene-Holocene fault. A fault whose movement in the
past 15 ka (15,000 years) has been large enough to break the ground surface;
         (b)   Late Quaternary fault. A fault whose movement in the past 130 ka
(130,000 years) has been large enough to break the ground surface; and
         (c)   Quaternary fault. A fault whose movement in the past 2.6 Ma (2.6
million years) has been large enough to break the ground surface. The county
requires site-specific investigation on parcels with latest Pleistocene-
Holocene faults for all new critical facilities and structures for human
occupancy (IBC Risk Category II, III and IV structures), on parcels with latest
Pleistocene-Holocene and late Quaternary faults for all new critical facilities
(IBC Risk Category III and IV structures) and on parcels with the faults listed
in division (D)(2) below.
      (2)   (a)   The state’s Geological Survey (UGS) Utah Quaternary Fault and
Fold Database (https://geology.utah.gov/apps/qfaults/index.html) provides the
latest information on Quaternary faulting in Utah to determine fault activity
levels as defined above. Where data are inadequate to determine the fault
activity class, the fault shall be assumed to be latest Pleistocene-Holocene,
pending detailed surface fault rupture and/or paleoseismic investigations.
         (b)   The database currently includes the following mapped Quaternary
faults within the county:
            1.   East Canyon fault: Quaternary;
            2.   Morgan fault, central section: One trace Holocene and one
trace Quaternary;
            3.   Morgan fault, northern section: Quaternary;
            4.   Morgan fault, southern section: Quaternary; and
            5.   Saleratus Creek fault: Quaternary.
         (c)   The county may require a site-specific investigation if on-site
and/or nearby fault-related features not shown in the database are identified
during other geologic or geotechnical investigations or during project
construction.
      (3)   Surface fault rupture hazard maps show the locations of fault
traces and recommended special study areas. These maps are published by the UGS
but are currently not available for the county. Once these maps are available,
at that time they will be adopted to become part of this subchapter. As a
result, investigations are required within special study areas as defined by:
         (a)   Areas that horizontally extend 500 feet on the down thrown and
250 feet on the upthrown side of well-defined faults (solid lines) and 1,000
feet on both sides of buried or inferred faults (dotted lines). For traces of
buried or inferred faults less than 1,000 feet long that lie between and on-
trend with well-defined faults or lie at the tail end of a well-defined faults,
the well-defined fault Special Study Area Zone is used (
Figure 155.236-1 below);
         (b)   In areas where a buffer “window” exists, the window is filled in
if its width is less than the greater of the two surrounding buffers (
Figure 155.236-1 below). In situations where the ground expression of the fault
scarp is larger than the Special Study Zone, in which case the zone does not
cover the entire fault scarp, the 1,000-foot buffer is used; and
         (c)   Well-defined faults are those fault traces that are clearly
identifiable by a geologist qualified to conduct surface fault rupture hazard
investigations as a physical feature at or just below the ground surface
(typically shown as a solid line on geologic maps), and buried or inferred
faults are those fault traces that are not evident at or just below the ground
surface by a qualified geologist (typically shown as a dotted line for buried
faults and a dotted line for inferred faults on geologic maps). Investigations
are required for all critical facilities, whether near a mapped Quaternary
fault or not, to ensure that previously unknown faults are not present. If
evidence for a Quaternary fault is found, subsurface investigations are
required and trenching to locate a suitable buildable area may be necessary
(IBC §§ 1704.6.1 and 1803.5.11).
 
Figure 155.236-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-54.png]
 
      (4)   When an alternative subsurface exploration plan is proposed in lieu
of paleoseismic trenching, a map and written description and plan shall be
submitted to the county for review, prior to the scoping meeting and
exploration implementation. The plan must include, at a minimum, a map of
suitable scale showing the site limits, surface geologic conditions within
2,000 feet of the site boundary, the location and type of the proposed
exploration and the anticipated subsurface geologic conditions.
      (5)   Small-displacement faults or those faults with less than four
inches of displacement are not exempted from structure setback requirements.
However, if structural risk-reduction measures are proposed for these faults,
the following criteria must be met:
         (a)   Reasonable geologic data indicating that future surface
displacement along the faults will not exceed four inches (see UGS Circular
122); and
         (b)   Specific structural mitigation to minimize structural damage and
ensure safe occupant egress designed by a state-licensed structural engineer
with plans and specifications reviewed and approved by the county.
   (E)   Landslides are the downslope movement of earth (soil, rock and/or
debris) materials and can cause significant property damage, injury and/or
death. The evaluation of landslides generally requires quantitative slope
stability analyses, involving engineering geologists and geotechnical engineers
experienced in landslide investigation, analysis and mitigation. Considering
the complexity inherent in performing slope stability analyses, additional
effort beyond the minimum standards presented herein may be required at some
sites to adequately address slope stability. Slope stability and landslide
hazard investigations and reports shall conform with the Guidelines for
Evaluating Landslide Hazards in Utah (UGS Circular 122, https://
ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/circular/c-122.pdf), as appropriate.
      (1)   Landslide hazard maps show the location of previous landsliding,
areas of potential landsliding and recommended special study areas. These maps
are published by the UGS but are not currently available for the county. Once
these maps are available, at that time they will be adopted to become part of
this subchapter. As a result, investigations are required within geologic
hazard study areas as defined by:
         (a)   Cut and fill slopes steeper than, or equal to, 2H:1V (horizontal
(H): vertical (V));
          (b)   Natural slopes steeper than or equal to 15% or 6.67H:1V;
         (c)   Natural and cut slopes with geologic conditions, such as
bedding, foliation or other structural features, that are potentially averse to
slope stability;
         (d)   Natural and cut slopes that include a geologic hazard, such as
an existing landslide, irrespective of the slope height or gradient;
         (e)   Buttresses and stability fills;
         (f)   Cut, fill, and natural slopes of water-retention basins or
flood-control channels;
          (g)   Units Qm, Qms, Qms1, Qmsy, Qmso, Qmc, Qmg, Qac, Qg, Qga, Qgy,
Qgmy, Qgay, Qgo, Qgao, Qgm, Qgmo and Tn on the most recent geologic maps
published by the UGS (c). Most maps are available in the UGS Interactive
Geologic Map Portal (https://geology.utah.gov/apps/intgeomap/), but contact the
UGS for interim, progress update and other non-final maps that may be
available, but not online; and
         (h)   Mapped landslide areas in the Utah Landslide Database, available
at: (https://gis.utah.gov/data/geoscience/landslides/). Development of
properties within these areas require submittal and review of a site-specific
geologic hazard report discussing landslide hazards, prior to receiving a land
use or building permit from the county. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to retain a qualified engineering geologist and geotechnical engineer
to perform the slope stability analysis.
      (2)   When evaluating site conditions to determine the need for slope
stability analyses, off-property conditions shall be considered (both up-slope
to the tops of adjacent, ascending slopes and down-slope to and beyond the toes
of adjacent, descending slopes). Also, the professionals shall demonstrate that
the proposed hillside development will not affect adjacent sites or limit
adjacent property owners’ ability to develop their sites.
      (3)   Investigations shall also address the potential for surficial
instability, rock slope instability, debris/mudflows, rockfalls and soil creep
on all slopes that may affect the proposed development, be affected by the
proposed development, and along access roads. Intermediate geomaterials (IGM),
those earth materials with properties between soil and rock, if present, shall
be appropriately investigated, sampled and tested.
      (4)   An engineering geologist shall provide appropriate input to the
geotechnical engineer with respect to the potential impact of the geology,
stratigraphy and hydrologic conditions on slope stability. The shear strength
and other geotechnical properties shall be evaluated by the geotechnical
engineer. Qualified engineering geologists may assess and quantitatively
evaluate slope stability; however, the geotechnical engineer shall perform all
design stability calculations. Ground motion parameters for use in seismic
stability analysis may be provided by either the engineering geologist or the
geotechnical engineer.
      (5)   Except for the derivation of the input ground motions for
pseudostatic and seismic deformation analyses described below, slope stability
analyses and evaluations shall be performed in general accordance with the
latest version of Recommended Procedures for Implementation of DMG Special
Publication 117: Guidelines for Analyzing and Mitigating Landslide Hazards in
California (Blake and others, 2002). Procedures for developing input ground
motions to be used in the county are described below. If on-site sewage and/or
stormwater disposal exists or is proposed, the slope stability analyses shall
include the effects of the effluent plume on slope stability.
      (6)   The minimum acceptable static factor of safety (FS) is one and one-
half for both overall and surficial slope stability and one for a calibrated
pseudostatic analysis using Stewart and others (2003) or other method
preapproved by the county.
      (7)   Soil and/or rock sampling shall be based on current ASTM
International or American Association of Highway Officials (AASHTO) standards,
as appropriate.
      (8)   Soil and/or rock properties, including unit weight and shear
strength parameters (cohesion and friction angle), shall be based on
conventional laboratory tests on appropriate samples. Laboratory tests shall be
performed using current ASTM International or AASHTO standards, as appropriate,
in a laboratory accredited by the AASHTO Materials Reference Laboratory and/or
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to ensure compliance with current laboratory
testing standards and quality control procedures. Where appropriate, such as
for landslide slip surfaces, along bedding planes, for surficial stability
analyses and the like, laboratory tests for saturated, residual shear strengths
must be performed. Estimation of the shear resistance along bedding or
landslide planes normally requires an evaluation of saturated, residual, along-
bedding strength values of the weakest interbedded or slide plane material
encountered during the subsurface exploration, or in the absence of enough
exploration, the weakest material that may be present, consistent with site
geologic conditions. Soil strength parameters derived solely from CPT data are
most often not appropriate for slope-stability analysis in many cases,
particularly for strengths along existing slip surfaces, where residual
strengths have developed. Additional guidance on the selection of strength
parameters for slope stability analyses is contained in Blake and others
(2002).
      (9)   Residual strength parameters may be determined using direct or ring
shear testing equipment; however, ring shear tests are preferred. If performed
properly, direct shear test results may approach ring shear test results. The
specimen must be subjected to enough deformation (such as, a significant number
of shearing cycles in the direct shear test or a significant amount of rotation
in the ring shear test) to ensure that residual strength has been developed. In
the direct and ring shear tests, stress-deformation curves can be used to
determine when an enough shearing cycles have been performed by showing that no
further significant drop in shear strength results with the addition of more
cycles or rotation. The stress-deformation curves obtained during the shear
tests must be submitted with the other pertinent laboratory test results. It
shall be recognized that for most clayey soils, the residual shear strength
envelope is curved and passes through the origin (for example, at zero normal
stress there is zero shear strength). Any apparent shear strength increases
resulting from a non-horizontal shear surface, such as ramping or bulldozing in
residual direct shear tests, shall be discounted in the interpretation of the
strength parameters.
      (10)   Inherent in the analyses, the geotechnical engineer will need to
use judgment in the selection of appropriate shear test methods and in the
interpretation of the results to develop shear strength parameters commensurate
with the slope stability conditions to be evaluated. Scatter plots of shear
strength data may need to be presented to allow for assessment of idealized
parameters. The report shall summarize shear strength parameters used for slope
stability analyses and describe the methodology used to interpret test results
and estimate those parameters.
         (a)   Peak shear strengths may be used to represent across-bedding
failure surfaces or compacted fill, in situations where strength degradations
are not expected to occur (see Blake and others, 2002). Where peak strengths
cannot be relied upon, fully softened or lower strengths shall be used.
         (b)   Ultimate shear strength parameters shall be used in static slope
stability analyses when there has not been past deformation. Residual shear
strength parameters shall be used in static slope stability analyses when there
has been past deformation.
         (c)   Averaged strength parameters may be appropriate for some across-
bedding conditions, if enough representative samples have been carefully
tested. Analyses for along bedding or along existing landslide slip surfaces
shall be based on the lower-bound interpretations of residual shear strength
parameters and comparison of those results to correlations, such as those of
Stark and others (2005).
      (11)   In the county, failure surfaces for known landslides commonly
occur within the Norwood Formation. In cases when the failure surface has been
sampled, tested and back-calculations performed of historic landslides,
relatively low residual-shear-strength values of cohesion equal to zero pounds
per square foot (psf) and friction angles equal to seven to nine degrees have
been determined. To assist in understanding shear strengths of these materials,
a cohesion equal to zero psf and a friction angle equal to seven degrees, shall
be used for landslide failure surfaces and along weak layers within the Norwood
Formation, unless otherwise determined. If site-specific testing produces lower
residual shear strength than these values, the site-specific test results shall
be used. If site-specific testing produces higher values, documentation must be
provided to clearly demonstrate that the weakest materials were sampled,
properly tested and that the materials sampled truly represent the basal
landslide slip surface.
      (12)   The potential effects of soil creep shall be addressed where any
proposed structure is planned near an existing fill or natural slope. The
potential effects on the proposed development shall be evaluated and mitigation
measures proposed, including appropriate setback recommendations that consider
the potential effects of creep forces.
      (13)   Gross stability includes rotational and translational deep-seated
slope failures or portions of slopes existing within or outside of, but
potentially affecting the proposed development. The following guidelines, in
addition to those in Blake and others (2002), shall be followed when evaluating
slope stability:
         (a)   Stability shall be analyzed along cross-sections depicting the
most adverse conditions, such as the highest slope, most adverse bedding
planes, shallowest likely groundwater table, steepest slope and the like.
Often, analyses are required for different conditions and for more than one
cross-section to demonstrate which condition is the most adverse. When
evaluating the stability of an existing landslide, analyses must also address
the potential for partial reactivation. Inclinometers may be used to help
determine critical failure surfaces, and along with high-precision GPS/GNSS,
the activity state of existing landslides. The critical failure surfaces on
each cross-section shall be identified, evaluated and plotted on the large-
scale cross-section;
         (b)   Rock slope stability shall be based on current rock mechanics
practice, using the methods of Wyllie and Mah (2004), based on Hoek and Bray
(1981); Practical Rock Engineering: (https://www.rocscience.com/assets/
resources/learning/hoek/Practical-Rock-Engineering-FullText.pdf); Federal
Highway Administration (1989); and similar references, such as the following:
(https://www.rocscience.com/learning/hoeks-corner/publications);
         (c)   If the long-term static FS is < l.5, mitigation measures shall
be required to bring the factor of safety up to the required level or the
project may be redesigned to achieve a minimum FS of > 1.5;
         (d)   The temporary stability of excavations shall be evaluated, and
mitigation measures shall be recommended as necessary to obtain a minimum FS of
> 1.3;
         (e)   Long-term slope stability shall be analyzed using the highest
known and anticipated groundwater level based upon a groundwater assessment as
described in UGS Circular 122: Guidelines for Investigating Geologic Hazards
and Preparing Engineering-Geology Reports, with a Suggested Approach to
Geologic-Hazard Ordinances in Utah, Chapter 2, along with groundwater
sensitivity analyses: (https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/circular/c-
122.pdf);
         (f)   Slope stability cannot be contingent on uncontrollable factors,
such as limiting landscape irrigation and the like;
         (g)   Where back-calculation is appropriate, shear strengths utilized
for design shall be no higher than the lowest strength computed using back
calculation. If a professional proposes to use shear strengths higher than the
lowest back-calculated value, justification shall be required. Assumptions used
in back-calculations regarding pre-sliding topography and groundwater
conditions at failure must be discussed and justified;
         (h)   Reports shall describe how the shear strength testing methods
used are appropriate in modeling field conditions and the long-term performance
of the analyzed slope. The utilized design shear strength values shall be
justified with laboratory test data and geologic descriptions and history,
along with past performance history, if known, of similar materials;
         (i)   Reports shall include shear strength test plots consisting of
normal stress versus shear resistance (failure envelope). Plots of shear
resistance versus displacement shall be provided for all residual and fully
softened (ultimate) shear tests;
         (j)   The degree of saturation for all test specimens shall be
reported. Direct shear tests on partially saturated samples may grossly
overestimate the cohesion that can be mobilized when the material becomes
saturated in the field. This potential shall be considered when selecting shear
strength parameters. If the rate of shear displacement exceeds five thousandths
of one inch per minute, the professional shall provide data to demonstrate that
the rate is sufficiently slow for drained conditions;
         (k)   Shear strength values higher than those obtained through site-
specific laboratory tests will generally not be accepted;
         (l)   If direct shear or triaxial shear testing is not appropriate to
model the strength of highly jointed and fractured rock masses, the design
strengths shall be evaluated in a manner that considers overall rock mass
quality and be consistent with current rock mechanics practice;
         (m)   Shear strengths used in slope stability analyses shall be
evaluated considering the natural variability of engineering characteristics
inherent in earth materials. Multiple shear tests on each site material are
likely to be required;
         (n)   Direct shear tests do not always provide realistic strength
values (Watry and Lade, 2000). Correlations between liquid limit, percent clay
fraction and strength (fully softened and residual) with published data (e.g.,
Stark and others, 2005) shall be performed to verify tested shear strength
parameters. Strength values used in analyses that exceed those obtained by the
correlation must be appropriately justified;
         (o)   Shear strengths for proposed fill slopes shall be evaluated
using samples mixed and remolded to represent anticipated field conditions.
Tests to confirm strengths may be required during grading;
         (p)   Where bedding planes and/or discontinuities are laterally
unsupported in slopes, potential failures along the unsupported bedding planes
and/or discontinuities shall be analyzed. Similarly, stability analyses shall
be performed where bedding planes and/or discontinuities form a dip-slope or
near dip-slope using composite, potential failure surfaces that consist of
potential slip surfaces along bedding planes and/or discontinuities in the
upper portions of the slope, in combination with slip surfaces across bedding
planes and/or discontinuities in the lower portions of the slope;
         (q)   The stability analysis shall include the effect of expected
maximum moisture conditions on unit weight;
         (r)   For effective stress analyses, measured groundwater conditions
adjusted to consider likely unfavorable conditions with respect to anticipated
future groundwater levels, seepage and pore pressure shall be included in the
slope stability analyses;
         (s)   Tension crack development shall be considered in the analyses of
potential failure surfaces. The height and location of the tension crack shall
be determined by modeling;
         (t)   Anticipated surcharge loads, as well as external boundary
pressures from groundwater, shall be included in the slope stability
evaluations, as deemed appropriate;
         (u)   Analytical chart solutions may be used, provided they were
developed for conditions like those being analyzed. Generally, computer-aided
modeling techniques shall be used, so that the potential failure surface with
the lowest factor of safety can be located. Examples of typical modeling
techniques are illustrated on Figures 9.1a to 9.1f in Blake and others (2002).
However, verification of the reasonableness of the analytical results is the
responsibility of the geotechnical engineer and/or engineering geologist; and
         (v)   The critical potential failure surface used in the analysis may
be composed of circles, wedges, planes or other shapes considered to yield the
minimum FS most appropriate for the geologic site conditions. The critical
potential failure surface having the lowest factor of safety with respect to
shearing resistance must be sought. Both the lowest FS and the critical failure
surface shall be documented.
      (14)   Surficial slope stability refers to slumping and sliding of near-
surface materials and is most critical during the snowmelt and rainy season or
when excessive landscape water is applied. The assessment of surficial slope
stability shall be based on analysis procedures for stability of an infinite
slope with seepage parallel to the slope surface or an alternate failure mode
that would produce the minimum factor of safety. The minimum acceptable
saturation depth for surficial stability evaluation shall be four feet.
         (a)   Residual shear strengths comparable to actual field conditions
shall be used in surficial stability analyses. Surficial stability analyses
shall be performed under rapid draw-down conditions, where appropriate, such as
for debris and detention basins.
         (b)   Where 2H:1V or steeper slopes have soil conditions that can
result in the development of an infinite slope with parallel seepage,
calculations shall be performed to demonstrate that the slope has a minimum
static FS of one and one-half, assuming a fully saturated four-foot thickness.
If conditions will not allow the development of a slope with parallel seepage,
surficial slope stability analyses may not be required if approved by the
county.
         (c)   Surficial slope stability analyses shall be performed for fill,
cut and natural slopes assuming an infinite slope with seepage parallel to the
slope surface or other failure mode that would yield the minimum FS against
failure. A suggested procedure for evaluating surficial slope stability is
presented in Blake and others (2002).
         (d)   Soil properties used in surficial stability analyses shall be
determined as noted for residual strengths above. Residual shear strength
parameters for surficial slope stability analyses shall be developed for a
stress range that is consistent with the near-surface conditions being modeled.
It shall be recognized that for most clayey soils, the residual shear strength
envelope is curved and passes through the origin (for example, at zero normal
stress, there is zero shear strength). For sites with deep slip surfaces, the
guidelines given by Blake and others (2002) should be followed.
         (e)   The minimum acceptable vertical depth for which seepage parallel
to the slope shall be applied is four feet for cut or fill slopes. Greater
depths may be necessary when analyzing natural slopes that have significant
thicknesses of loose surficial material.
      (15)   In addition to static slope stability analyses, slopes shall be
evaluated for seismic slope stability as well. Acceptable methods for
evaluating seismic slope stability include using calibrated pseudostatic limit-
equilibrium procedures and simplified methods (such as, those based on Newmark
(1965)) to estimate permanent seismic slope movements and are summarized in
Blake and others (2002). Nonlinear, dynamic finite element/finite difference
numerical methods also may be used to evaluate slope movements resulting from
seismic events, if the procedures, input data and results are thoroughly
documented and deemed acceptable by the county.
         (a)   Regarding design ground accelerations for seismic slope-
stability analyses, the county prefers a probabilistic approach to determining
the likelihood that different levels of ground motion will be exceeded at a
site within a given time period. In order to more closely represent the seismic
characteristics of the region, design ground motion parameters for seismic
slope stability analyses shall be based on the peak accelerations with a 2.5%
probability in 50 years (2,500-year return period).
         (b)   Peak ground accelerations (PGA) shall be used from the most
recent USGS National Seismic Hazard Maps (https://earthquake.usgs.gov/hazards/
hazmaps/) and adjusted for effects of soil/rock (site-class) conditions in
accordance with Seed and others (2001) or other appropriate methods that
consider the site-specific soil conditions and their potential for
amplification or de-amplification of the high-frequency strong motion. Site-
specific response analysis may also be used to develop PGA values if the
procedures, input data and results are thoroughly documented and deemed
acceptable by the county.
         (c)   Pseudostatic methods for evaluating seismic slope stability are
acceptable if minimum factors of safety are satisfied and due consideration is
given in the selection of the seismic coefficient (k) reduction in material
shear strengths and the factor of safety for pseudostatic conditions.
         (d)   Pseudostatic seismic slope stability analyses can be performed
using the “screening analysis” procedure described in Blake and others (2002).
For that procedure, a k-value is selected from seismic source characteristics
(modal magnitude and distance, and firm rock PGA) and < two inches (five cm) of
deformation is specified. For that procedure, a factor of safety of > one is
considered acceptable; otherwise, an analysis of permanent seismic slope
deformation shall be performed.
      (16)   For seismic slope stability analyses, estimates of permanent
seismic displacement are preferred and may be performed using the procedures
outlined in Blake and others (2002). It should be noted that Bray and Rathje
(1998), referenced in Blake and others (2002), has been updated and superseded
by Bray and Travasarou (2007), which is the county’s currently preferred
method. For those analyses, calculated seismic displacements shall be < four
inches (ten cm), or mitigation measures shall be proposed to limit calculated
displacements to < four inches (ten cm). For specific projects, different
levels of tolerable displacement may be possible, but site-specific conditions,
which shall include the following, must be considered:
         (a)   The extent to which the displacements are localized or broadly
distributed; broadly distributed shear deformations would generally be less
damaging, and more displacement could be allowed;
         (b)   The displacement tolerance of the foundation system: Stiff,
well-reinforced foundations with lateral continuity of vertical support
elements would be more resistant to damage and could potentially tolerate
larger displacements than typical slabs-on-grade or foundation systems with
individual spread footings; and
         (c)   The potential of the foundation soils to experience strain
softening: Slopes composed of soils likely to experience strain softening
should be designed for relatively low displacements if peak strengths are used
in the evaluation of the yield coefficient (ky) due to the potential for
progressive failure, which could involve very large displacements following
strain softening. In order to consider a threshold larger than two inches, the
project professional shall provide prior, acceptable justification to the
county and obtain the county’s approval. Such justification shall demonstrate,
to the satisfaction of the county, that the proposed project will achieve
acceptable performance.
      (17)   Slope stability analyses shall be performed for cut, fill and
natural slopes of water-retention basins or flood-control channels. In addition
to analyzing typical static and seismic slope stability, those analyses shall
consider the effects of rapid drawdown, if such a condition could occur.
      (18)   When slope stability hazards are determined to exist on a project,
measures to mitigate impacts from those hazards shall be implemented. Some
guidance regarding mitigation measures is provided in Blake and others (2002)
and methods include:
         (a)   Hazard avoidance;
         (b)   Grading to improve slope stability;
         (c)   Reinforcement of the slope and/or improvement of the soil within
the slope; and
         (d)   Reinforcement of the structures built on the slope to tolerate
anticipated slope displacements. Where mitigation measures that are intended to
add stabilizing forces to the slope are to be implemented, consideration may
need to be given to strain compatibility. For example, if a compacted fill
buttress is proposed to stabilize laterally unsupported bedding or a landslide,
the amount of deformation needed to mobilize the recommended shear strength in
the buttress shall be considered to confirm that it will not result in adverse
movements of the upslope bedding or landslide deposits. Similarly, if a series
of drilled piers is to be used to support a potentially unstable slope and a
structure will be built on the piers, pier deformations resulting from
movements needed to mobilize the soil’s shear strength shall be compared to
tolerable deflections in the supported structure.
      (19)   Full mitigation of slope stability hazards shall be performed for
developments in the county. Remedial measures that produce static FS > one and
one-half and acceptable seismic displacement estimates shall be implemented as
needed.
      (20)   On some projects or portions of, such as small structural
additions, residential infill projects, nonhabitable structures and non-
structural natural-slope areas, full mitigation of seismic slope displacements
may not be possible, due to physical and/or economic constraints. In those
cases, partial mitigation, to the extent that it prevents structural collapse,
injury and loss of life, may be possible if consistent with IBC design
criteria, and if it is approved by the county. The applicability of partial
mitigation to specific projects shall be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
      (21)   For developments when full mitigation of seismic slope
displacements is not implemented, a notice of geologic hazard shall be recorded
with the proposed development describing the displacement hazard at issue and
the partial mitigation employed. The notice shall clearly state that the
seismic displacement hazard at the site has been reduced by the partial
mitigation, but not eliminated. In addition, the owner shall assume all risks,
waive all claims against the county and its consultants and indemnify and hold
the county and its consultants harmless from any and all claims arising from
the partial mitigation of the seismic displacement hazard.
   (F)   Liquefaction is a process by which strong shaking during an earthquake
causes the ground to temporarily lose its strength and to behave like a viscous
liquid rather than a solid material. Liquefaction can cause buildings to tip
and settle; roads to crack, deform and flood; buried storage tanks to rise
towards the surface; and other types of damage to buildings and infrastructure.
Liquefaction hazard investigation reports shall conform with the requirements
described below and be prepared by a qualified geotechnical engineer as defined
above.
      (1)   Liquefaction hazard maps show the location and relative anticipated
severity of liquefaction during an earthquake. These maps are published by the
UGS but are not currently available for the county. Once these maps are
available, at that time they will be adopted to become part of this subchapter.
As a result, investigations are required, prior to approval of any land use for
facilities identified in the table provided in division (F)(5) below and within
geologic hazard study areas defined by:
         (a)   Units Qac, Qay, Qaf, Qafy, Qafo, Qaf1, Qaf2, Qaf3, Qaf4, Qaf5,
Qafb, Qafp and Qafoe on the most recent geologic maps published by the UGS
(https://geology.utah.gov/). Most maps are available in the UGS Interactive
Geologic Map Portal (https://geology.utah.gov/apps/intgeomap/), but contact the
UGS for interim, progress update and other non-final maps that may be
available, but not online; and
         (b)   For all critical and essential facilities, regardless of whether
the site lies within a designated geologic hazard study area or not.
      (2)   A liquefaction-hazard investigation shall be performed in
conjunction with any geotechnical and/or geologic hazards investigation
prepared within the county.
      (3)   For all structures where liquefaction-hazard analyses indicates
that ground settlement and/or lateral spread may be anticipated, the project
structural engineer must provide documentation that the building is designed to
accommodate the predicted ground settlements and displacements in such a manner
as to be protective of life (collapse prevention) during and after the design
seismic event.
      (4)   The investigation of liquefaction hazard is an interdisciplinary
practice. The site investigation report must be prepared by a qualified
geotechnical engineer, who must have competence in the field of seismic hazard
evaluation and mitigation. Because of the differing expertise and abilities of
qualified engineering geologists and geotechnical engineers, the scope of the
site investigation report for a project may require that both types of
professionals prepare and review the report, each practicing in the area of
their expertise. Involvement of both a qualified engineering geologist and
geotechnical engineer will generally provide greater assurance that the hazard
is properly identified, assessed and mitigated. Liquefaction-hazard analyses
are the responsibility of the geotechnical engineer, although the engineering
geologist should be involved in the application of screening criteria and
general geologic site evaluation to map the likely extent of liquefiable
deposits and shallow groundwater. Engineering properties of earth materials
shall be evaluated by the geotechnical engineer. The performance of
quantitative liquefaction-hazard analyses resulting in a numerical factor of
safety and quantitative assessment of settlement and liquefaction-induced
permanent ground displacement shall be performed by the geotechnical engineer.
The geotechnical and civil engineers shall develop all mitigation and design
recommendations. Ground motion parameters for use in quantitative liquefaction-
hazard analyses may be provided by either the engineering geologist or
geotechnical engineer.
      (5)   Except for the derivation of input ground motion (see below for
details), liquefaction-hazard investigations shall be performed in general
accordance with the latest version of Recommended Procedures for Implementation
of DMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines for Analyzing and Mitigating
Liquefaction in California (Martin and Lew, 1999). Additional protocol for
liquefaction hazard investigations is provided in Youd and Idriss (1997, 2001),
Assessment of the Liquefaction Susceptibility of Fine-Grained Soils (Bray and
Sancio, 2006) and SPT-Based Liquefaction Triggering Procedures (Idriss and
Boulanger, 2010). Acceptable factors of safety are shown in the following
table:
 
Type of Facility                            Minimum Factor of Safety (FS)
Critical facilities, including essential or
hazardous facilities and special occupancy  1.3
structures
IBC Category III and IV structures          1.3
Industrial and commercial structures        1.25
 
      (6)   Soil liquefaction is caused by strong seismic ground shaking where
saturated, cohesionless, granular soil undergoes a significant loss in shear
strength that can result in settlement and permanent ground displacement.
Surface effects of liquefaction include settlement, bearing capacity failure,
ground oscillations, lateral spread and flow failure. It has been well
documented that soil liquefaction may occur in clean sands, silty sands, sandy
silt, non-plastic silts and gravelly soils. The following conditions must be
present for liquefaction to occur:
         (a)   Soils must be submerged below the water table;
         (b)   Soils must be loose to moderately dense;
         (c)   Earthquake ground shaking must be relatively intense; and
         (d) The duration of ground shaking must be large enough for the soils
to generate seismically induced excess pore water pressure and lose their
shearing resistance.
      (7)   The following screening criteria may be applied to determine if
further quantitative evaluation of liquefaction hazard is required:
         (a)   If the estimated maximum past-, current- and maximum-future-
groundwater-levels (i.e., the highest groundwater level applicable for
liquefaction-hazard analyses) are determined to be deeper than 50 feet below
the existing ground surface or proposed finished grade (whichever is deeper),
liquefaction-hazard assessments are not required. For soil materials that are
located above the groundwater level, a quantitative assessment of seismically
induced settlement is required,
         (b)   If bedrock underlies the site, those materials need not be
considered liquefiable and no analysis of their liquefaction potential is
necessary,
         (c)   If the corrected standard penetration test (SPT) blow count,
(N1) 60, is > 33 in all samples with an acceptable number of blow counts
recorded, liquefaction-hazard assessments are not required. If CPT soundings
are made, the corrected CPT tip resistance, qclN, should be > 180 in all
soundings in sandy soils; otherwise, liquefaction-hazard assessments are
needed; and
         (d)   If plastic soils with a plasticity index (PI) > 18 are
encountered during site exploration, those materials may be considered non-
liquefiable. Additional acceptable screening criteria regarding the effects of
plasticity on liquefaction susceptibility are presented in Boulanger and Idriss
(2004), Bray and Sancio (2006) and Seed and others (2003). Youd and others
(2002) provide additional guidance on analyzing lateral spreads. If the
screening investigation clearly demonstrates the absence of liquefaction
hazards at a project site and the county concurs, the screening investigation
will satisfy the site investigation report requirement for liquefaction
hazards. If not, a quantitative evaluation is required to assess the
liquefaction hazards.
      (8)   (a)   Geologic research and reconnaissance are important to provide
information to define the extent of unconsolidated deposits that may be prone
to liquefaction. Such information shall be presented on geologic maps and
cross-sections and provide a description of the formations present at the site
that includes the nature, thickness and origin of Quaternary deposits with
liquefaction potential. There shall also be an analysis of groundwater
conditions at the site that includes the highest recorded water level and the
highest water level likely to occur under the most adverse foreseeable
conditions in the future, including seasonal changes.
         (b)   During the field investigation, the engineering geologist shall
map the limits of unconsolidated deposits with liquefaction potential.
Liquefaction typically occurs in cohesionless silt, sand and fine-grained
gravel deposits of Holocene to late Pleistocene age, in areas where the
groundwater is shallower than about 50 feet, but other soil types are may also
be liquefiable. Shallow groundwater may exist for a variety of natural and/or
human-made reasons.
         (c)   Landscape irrigation, on-site sewage disposal and unlined human-
made lakes, reservoirs and storm-water detention basins may create a shallow
groundwater table in soils that were previously unsaturated.
      (9)   (a)   Subsurface exploration shall consist of drilled borings and/
or CPT soundings. The exploration program shall be planned to determine the
soil stratigraphy, groundwater level and indices that could be used to evaluate
the potential for liquefaction by in-situ testing or laboratory testing of soil
samples.
         (b)   If borings are utilized, the use of mud-rotary drilling methods
is highly recommended to achieve minimal disturbance of the in-situ soils. If
mud-rotary drilling is not used, a through explanation is required in the
submitted report. Borings and CPT soundings must penetrate a minimum of 45 feet
below the final ground surface. If during the investigation, the liquefaction
evaluation indices the liquefaction potential may extend below 45 feet, the
exploration shall be continued for a minimum of ten feet, to the extent
possible, until non-liquefiable soils are encountered.
         (c)   For saturated cohesionless soils where the SPT N 160 values are
< 15 or where CPT tip resistances are < 60 tsf, grain-size analyses,
hydrometers tests and Atterberg limits tests shall be performed on these soils
to further evaluate their potential for permanent ground displacement (Youd et
al., 2002) and other forms of liquefaction-induced ground failure and
settlement. In addition, it is also recommended that these same tests be
performed on saturated cohesionless soils with SPT (NI) 60 values between 15
and 30 to further evaluate the potential for liquefaction-induced settlement.
         (d)   Where a structure may have below grade construction and/or deep
foundations, such as drilled shafts or piles, the investigation depth shall
extend to a minimum of 20 feet below the lowest expected foundation level
(e.g., drilled shaft or pile tip) or to 45 feet below the existing ground
surface or lowest proposed finished grade, whichever is deeper. If during the
investigation, the liquefaction evaluation indices indicate that liquefaction
potential may extend below that depth, the exploration shall be continued at
least ten additional feet, to the extent possible, until non-liquefiable soils
are encountered.
      (10)   (a)   For the design ground accelerations used in liquefaction
analyses, the county prefers a probabilistic approach to determining the
likelihood that different levels of ground motion will be exceeded at a site
within a given time period. In order to more closely represent the seismic
characteristics of the region, design ground motion parameters for seismic
slope stability analyses shall be based on the peak accelerations with a 2%
probability in 50 years (2,500-year return period). PGA values shall be
obtained from the USGS national seismic hazard maps and site-specific data
webpage (https://earthquake.usgs.gov/hazards/hazmaps/) using the latest long-
term model.
         (b)   PGAs obtained from the USGS shall be adjusted for effects of
soil/rock (site-class) conditions in accordance with Seed and others (2001) or
other appropriate and documented methods that are deemed acceptable by the
county that consider the site-specific soil conditions and their potential for
amplification or deamplification of the high frequency strong ground motion.
Site-specific response analysis may also be used to develop PGA values if the
procedures, input data and results are thoroughly documented and deemed
acceptable by the county.
      (11)   Sites, facilities, buildings, structures and utilities that are
founded on or traverse liquefiable soils may require further remedial design
and/or relocation to avoid liquefaction-induced damage. These shall be
investigated and evaluated on a site-specific basis with appropriate geologic
and geotechnical investigation to support the remedial design and/or mitigative
plan. This design or plan may include changes/modifications to the soil,
permanent dewatering, earthquake drains, foundation systems, building
structural frame or support and the like. Remedial design and/or mitigation
measures shall be reviewed and approved by the county.
      (12)   (a)   Liquefaction hazard reports shall include: Boring logs;
geologic cross-sections; laboratory data; a detailed explanation pertaining to
how idealized subsurface conditions and parameters used for the analyses were
developed; analytical results and software output files; and summaries of the
liquefaction-hazard analyses and conclusions regarding liquefaction potential
and likely types and magnitudes of ground failure in addition to the other
report requirements detailed in this subchapter.
         (b)   Subsurface geologic and groundwater conditions developed by the
engineering geologist must be illustrated on geologic cross-sections and must
be utilized by the geotechnical engineer for the liquefaction-hazard analyses.
If on-site sewage or storm-water disposal exists or is proposed, the
liquefaction-hazard analyses shall include the effects of the effluent plume on
liquefaction potential.
         (c)   The results of any liquefaction-hazard analyses must be
submitted with pertinent documentation, including calculations, software output
and the like. Documentation of input data, output data, and graphical plots
must be submitted for each computer-aided liquefaction-hazard analysis and
included as an appendix to the report. Additional information and/or data may
be requested to facilitate the county’s review.
   (G)   (1)   Debris flows are fast-moving, flow-type landslides composed of a
slurry of rock, mud, organic matter and water that move down drainage basin
channels onto alluvial fans. In addition to threatening lives, debris flows can
damage structures and infrastructure by sediment burial, erosion, direct impact
and associated water flooding.
      (2)   Debris flow hazard investigations and reports shall conform with
the Guidelines for the Geologic Investigation of Debris-Flow Hazards on
Alluvial Fans in Utah (UGS Circular 122, https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/
publications/circular/c-122.pdf).
      (3)   Debris flow hazard maps show the locations of previous debris
flows, areas of potential debris flows and recommended special study areas.
These maps are published by the UGS but are currently not available for the
county. Once these maps are available, at that time they will be adopted to
become part of this subchapter. As a result, investigations are required within
geologic hazard study areas as defined by:
         (a)   Units Qmdf, Qaf, Qafy, Qafo, Qaf1, Qaf2, Qaf3, Qaf4, Qaf5, Qafb,
Qafp and Qafoe on the most recent geologic maps published by the UGS (https://
geology.utah.gov/). Most maps are available in the UGS Interactive Geologic Map
Portal (https://geology.utah.gov/apps/intgeomap/), but contact the UGS for
interim, progress update and other non-final maps that may be available, but
not online;
         (b)   Other environmentally sensitive areas that the county’s Planning
Commission and County Commission find to be of significance to the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the county;
         (c)   All properties located on alluvial fans and drainage channels
subject to flash flooding and debris flows; and
         (d)   Additions to existing structures are exempt from the provisions
in this section.
   (H)   Rockfall is a type of landslide and a natural mass-wasting process
that involves the dislodging and rapid downslope movement of individual rocks
and rock masses. Rockfall hazard investigations and reports shall conform with
the Guidelines for Evaluating Rockfall Hazards in Utah (UGS Circular 122,
https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/circular/c-122.pdf).
      (1)   Rockfall hazard maps show the locations of known rockfall, areas of
potential rockfall and recommended special study areas. These maps are
published by the UGS but are currently not available for the county. Once these
maps are available, at that time they will be adopted to become part of this
subchapter. As a result, investigations are required geologic hazard study
areas as defined by: Units Qmrf, Qmt, Qmtr, Qm and Qmr on the most recent
geologic maps published by the UGS (https://geology.utah.gov/). Most maps are
available in the UGS Interactive Geologic Map Portal (https://geology.utah.gov/
apps/intgeomap/), but contact the UGS for interim, progress update and other
non-final maps that may be available, but not online.
      (2)   Additions to existing structures are exempt from the provisions in
this section.
   (I)   Avalanches are landslides consisting mainly of snow and ice, but can
contain soil, rock and/or debris. These investigations and reports shall be
prepared by a qualified avalanche expert, conform with Colorado Geological
Survey Bulletin 49: Snow-Avalanche Hazard Analysis for Land Use Planning and
Engineering, geologic reports should consider the hazard from avalanches in
areas identified in division (I)(1) below and discuss the need for further
detailed avalanche analysis or mitigation measures.
      (1)   Avalanche hazard maps show the locations of previous avalanches,
areas of potential avalanches and recommended special study areas. These maps
are currently not available for the county. Once these maps are available, at
that time they will be adopted to become part of this subchapter. As a result,
investigations are required within geologic hazard study areas as defined by
those areas within the county above elevations of 6,000 feet with an adequate
snow supply to produce snow avalanches and which include slopes greater than
47% (25 degrees).
      (2)   Avalanche areas shall be delineated on a detailed site avalanche
map, at a scale equal to or more detailed than one inch equals 100 feet. The
site avalanche map shall include the location and boundaries of the property,
locations of avalanche areas, avalanche-source areas, avalanche-runout areas
and buildable and non-buildable areas; delineation of recommended setback
distances from the hazard; and recommended locations for structures. Avalanche-
source areas may be off-site and, in areas of steep terrain, may be at great
distances from the site.
      (3)   If the avalanche analysis indicates that the site may be impacted
by avalanches, the report shall delineate the following areas:
         (a)   A “red zone” of high avalanche potential corresponding to a
return period of 25 years or less, and/or impact pressures 2,600 pounds per
square foot (psf) within which critical facilities or structures for human
occupancy are not permitted; and
         (b)   A “blue zone” corresponding to a return period between 25 and
300 years, and impact pressures less than 600 psf within which critical
facilities or structures for human occupancy shall only be permitted when at
least one of the following requirements has been met:
            1.   The structure is designed to incorporate direct protection
measures that address the estimated impact forces of flowing snow/debris and
powder blast loading. The estimated impact forces shall be calculated by the
avalanche expert and the structure shall be designed by, and the plans stamped
by, a qualified, state-licensed professional structural engineer; or
            2.   Appropriate engineering controls (such as, deflection
structures, snow retention nets, dams and the like) are designed and installed
to mitigate the avalanche hazard. Design or performance criteria for engineered
mitigation measures, including estimated impact forces, flow heights, location
and dimensions of the mitigation structures and all supporting modeling or
other analyses, calculations and assumptions, shall be calculated by the
avalanche expert and included in the report. Final design plans and
specifications for engineered mitigation must be signed and stamped by a
qualified, state-licensed professional geotechnical or structural engineer, as
appropriate.
      (4)   The report shall include:
         (a)   The probability of avalanche occurrence, if possible, estimates
of avalanche volumes, and the likely effects of avalanches on the proposed
development;
         (b)   A description of the avalanche expert’s qualifications to
perform the investigation; and
         (c)   Engineering design parameters for avalanche mitigation, as
appropriate, implications of the risk reduction measures on the development and
adjacent properties and the need for long-term maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-17) (Ord. 10-02, passed 6-1-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-15-2021; Ord. 24-12, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.237 REFERENCES.
Bartlett, S.F. and Youd, T. L., 1995, Empirical Prediction of Liquefaction-
Induced Lateral Spread: Journal of Geotechnical Engineering, v. 121, n. 4 -
April, American Society of Civil Engineers, pp. 316-329.
Beukelman, G.S and Hylland, M.D., 2016, Guidelines for Evaluating Landslide
Hazards in Utah in Guidelines for Investigating Geologic Hazards and Preparing
Engineering-Geology Reports, with a Suggested Approach to Geologic-Geology
Ordinances in Utah: Utah Geological Survey Circular 122, p. 59-73, online:
(https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/circular/c-122.pdf).
Blake, T.F., Hollingsworth, R.A. and Stewart, J.P., editors, 2002, Recommended
Procedures for Implementation of DMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines for
Analyzing and Mitigating Landslide Hazards in California: Southern California
Earthquake Center, p. 110, (http://www-scec.usc.edu/resources/catalog/
LandslideProceduresJune02.pdf).
Boulanger, R.W. and Idriss I.M., 2004, Evaluating the Potential for
Liquefaction Resistance or Cyclic Failures of Silts and Clays: University of
California, Davis Center for Geotechnical Modeling Report UCD/CGM-04/01,
(https://faculty.engineering.ucdavis.edu/boulanger/wp-content/uploads/sites/71/
2014/09/Boulanger__Idriss_CGM04-01_2004.pdf).
Bowman, S.D. and Lund, W.R., editors, 2016, Guidelines for Investigating
Geologic Hazards and Preparing Engineering-Geology Reports, with a Suggested
Approach to Geologic-Hazard Ordinances in Utah: Utah Geological Survey Circular
122, p. 203, online: (https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/circular/c-
122.pdf).
Bowman, S.D. and Lund, W.R., 2016, Guidelines for Conducting Engineering-
Geology Investigations and Preparing Engineering-Geology Reports in Utah in
Guidelines for Investigating Geologic Hazards and Preparing Engineering-Geology
Reports, with a Suggested Approach to Geologic-Geology Ordinances in Utah: Utah
Geological Survey Circular 122, p. 15-30, online: (https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/
publications/circular/c-122.pdf).
Bray, J.D. and Rathje, E.M., 1998, Earthquake-Induced Displacements of Solid
Waste Landfills: Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering, v.
124, no. 3, pp. 242-253.
Bray J. D. and Sancio R. B., 2006, Assessment of Liquefaction Susceptibility of
Fine-Grained Soils: Asce Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental
Engineering, September 2006.
Bray, J.D. and Travasarou, T, 2007, Simplified Procedure for Estimating
Earthquake-Induced Deviatoric Slope Displacements: Journal of Geotechnical and
Geoenvironmental Engineering, v. 133, no. 4, April 1, 2007, pp. 381-392.
Bryant, B., 1988, Geology of the Farmington Canyon Complex, Wasatch Mountains,
Utah: U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1476, p. 54, scale 1:50,000,
(part of the Bountiful Peak quadrangle and west 1/2 of the Porterville
quadrangle, Morgan County, Utah), online: (https://pubs.er.usgs.gov/
publication/pp1476).
Federal Highway Administration, 1989, Rock Slopes-Design, Excavation,
Stabilization: Federal Highway Administration Publication, FHWA-TS-89-045,
paginated online: (https://geodata.geology.utah.gov/pages/view.php?ref=58219).
Giraud, R.E., 2016, Guidelines for the Geologic Investigation of Debris-Flow
Hazards on Alluvial Fans in Utah in Guidelines for Investigating Geologic
Hazards and Preparing Engineering-Geology Reports, with a Suggested Approach to
Geologic-Geology Ordinances in Utah: Utah Geological Survey Circular 122, p.
75-91, online: (https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/circular/c-122.pdf).
Giraud, R.E. and Shaw, L.M., 2007, Landslide Susceptibility Map of Utah: Utah
Geological Survey Map M-228, p. 11, 1 plate, scale 1:500,000, online: (http://
ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/maps/m-228/m-228.pdf).
Hoek, E., Bray, J.W., 1981, Rock Slope Engineering, revised third edition: E &
FN Spon, London, p. 358.
Idriss, I.M. and Boulanger, R.W., 2010, SPT-Based Liquefaction Triggering
Procedures: University of California, Davis Center for Geotechnical Modeling
Report No. UCD/CGM 10/02, p. 259:
(https://faculty.engineering.ucdavis.edu/boulanger/wp-content/uploads/sites/71/
2014/09/Idriss_Bo_ulanger_SPT_Liquefaction_CGM-10-02.pdf).
International Code Council, Inc., 2017, 2018 International Building Code:
International Code Council, Country Club Hills, Illinois, p. 728, (https://
codes.iccsafe.org/content/IBC2018).
Kaliser, B.N., 1972, Geologic Hazards in Morgan County with Applications to
Planning Purposes, Utah Geological and Mineralogical Survey Bulletin 93, p. 56,
2 plates, online: (https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/bulletins/B-93.pdf).
Lund, W.R., Christenson, G.E., Batatian, L.D. and Nelson, C.V., 2016,
Guidelines for Evaluating Surface-fault-rupture Hazards in Utah in Guidelines
for Investigating Geologic Hazards and Preparing Engineering-Geology Reports,
with a Suggested Approach to Geologic-Geology Ordinances in Utah: Utah
Geological Survey Circular 122, p. 31-58, online: (https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/
publications/circular/c-122.pdf).
Lund, W.R. and Knudsen, T.R., 2016, Guidelines for Evaluating Rockfall Hazards
in Utah in Guidelines for Investigating Geologic Hazards and Preparing
Engineering-Geology Reports, with a Suggested Approach to Geologic-Hazard
Ordinances in Utah: Utah Geological Survey Circular 122, p. 111-123, online:
(https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/circular/c-122.pdf).
Martin, G.R. and Lew, M., editors., 1999, Recommended Procedures for
Implementation of DMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines for Analyzing and
Mitigating Liquefaction Potential in California: Southern California Earthquake
Center, University of Southern California, p. 63, (http://scecinfo.usc.edu/
resources/catalog/LiquefactionproceduresJun99.pdf).
Mears, A.I., 1992, Snow-Avalanche Hazard Analysis for Land Use Planning and
Engineering: Colorado Geological Survey Bulletin B-49, p. 55:
(https://store.coloradogeologicalsurvey.org/product/snow-avalanche-hazard-
analysis-land-use-plan_ning-engineering-2/).
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, 2016, State of the
Art and Practice in the Assessment of Earthquake-Induced Soil Liquefaction and
its Consequences: The National Academies Press, online:
(https://doi.org/10.17226/23474).
Newmark, N.M., 1965, Effects of Earthquakes on Dams and Embankments:
Geotechnique, v. 25, no. 4.
Seed, H.B. and Idriss, I.M., 1982, Ground Motion and Soil Liquefaction During
Earthquakes: Earthquake Engineering Research Institute, Oakland, California, p.
135.
Seed, R.B., Cetin, K.O., Moss, R.E.S., Kammerer, A.M., Wu, J., Pestana, J.M.
and Riemer, M.F., 2001, Recent Advances in Soil Liquefaction Engineering and
Seismic Site Response Evaluation, Fourth International Conference on Recent
Advances in Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering and Soil Dynamics, University
of Missouri-Rolla, Rolla, Missouri, 2001, Paper No. SPL-2, p. 45.
Seed, R.B., Cetin, K.O., Moss, R.E.S., Kammerer, A.M., Wu, J., Pestana, J.M.
and Riemer, M.F., Sancio, R.B., Bray, J.D., Kayen, R.E. and Faris, A., 2003,
Recent Advances in Soil Liquefaction Engineering: a Unified and Consistent
Framework: Earthquake Engineering Research Institute Report No. EERC 2003-06,
p. 71, online:
(https://digitalcommons.calpoly.edu/cgi/
viewcontent.cgi?article=1007&context=cenv_fac).
Stark, T.D., Choi, H. and McCone, S., 2005, Drained Shear Strength Parameters
for Analysis of Landslides: Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental
Engineering, v. 131, no. 5, pp. 575-588.
Stewart, J.P., Blake, T.M. and Hollingsworth, R.A., 2003, Development of a
screen analysis procedure for seismic slope stability: Earthquake Spectra, v.
19, no. 3, pp. 697-712.
Van Horn, R. and Crittenden, Jr., M.D., 1987, Map Showing Surficial Units and
Bedrock Geology of the Fort Douglas Quadrangle and Parts of the Mountain Dell
and Salt Lake City North Quadrangles, Davis, Salt Lake and Morgan Counties,
Utah: U.S. Geological Survey Miscellaneous Investigation Series Map I-1762,
scale 1:24,000, online: (https://ngmdb.usgs.gov/Prodesc/proddesc_9901.htm).
Youd, T.L. and Idriss, I.M., editors., 1997, Proceedings of the Nceer Workshop
on Evaluation of Liquefaction Resistance of Soils: National Center for
Earthquake Engineering Research Technical Report NCEER 97-0022, also Youd, T.L.
and Idriss, I.M., 2001, Liquefaction Resistance of Soils: Summary Report from
the 1996 NCEER and 1998 NCEER/NSF Workshops on Evaluation of Liquefaction
Resistance of Soils: Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering,
v. 127, no. 4, April 2001, (http://www.ce.memphis.edu/7137/PDFs/Reference2/
Youd%20ad%Idriss.pdf).
Youd, T.L. and Gilstrap, S.D., (1999), Liquefaction and Deformation of Silty
and Fine-Grained Soils: Proceedings of the Second International Conference on
Earthquake Geotechnical Engineering, Lisboa, Portugal, 21-25 June 1999, Seco e
Pinto, pp. 1013-1020.
Youd, T.L., Hansen, C.M. and Bartlett, S.F., (2002), Revised MLR Equations for
Predicting Lateral Spread Displacement, Asce Journal of Geotechnical and
Geoenvironmental Engineering, December 2002.
Watry, S.M. and Lade, P.V., 2000, Residual Shear Strengths of Bentonites on
Palos Verdes Peninsula, California: Proceedings of the session of Geo-Denver
2000, American Society of Civil Engineers, pp. 323-342.
Wyllie, D.C. and Mah, C.W., 2004, Rock Slope Engineering, Civil and Mining, 4th
edition: Spon Press, New York, p. 431.
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5I-18) (Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-2019; Ord. 21-07, passed 6-
15-2021)
RESORT SPECIAL DISTRICTS
§ 155.250 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of each Resort Special District (RSD) Zone is to permit a
compatible, master- planned mix of various types of residential and commercial
land uses, in combination with open space and recreational components, on land
that has characteristics that warrant customized development requirements.
Although residential dwelling type and development size will vary from location
to location, each development is intended to consist of well designed,
architecturally integrated structures which are appropriately landscaped and
buffered from surrounding land uses.
(Prior Code, § 8-5J-1) (Ord. 13-14, passed 10-15-2013)
§ 155.251 ESTABLISHMENT OF RSD ZONES.
   Each RSD Zone is intended to allow a master-planned, resort-focused
development where customized zoning requirements apply in order to permit
flexibility and initiative in site development. The RSD is intended to be
utilized only where the General Plan’s future land use map has identified
property for the master-planned community designation. The following
requirements shall apply to the establishment of any RSD Zone.
   (A)   Each RSD shall be at least 1,280 acres in size.
   (B)   Each RSD shall dedicate a minimum of 60% of the gross acreage of the
project in perpetual open space. Each RSD application shall submit an open
space management and maintenance plan.
   (C)   To establish an RSD Zone an application shall be submitted for a text
and zoning map amendment as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Proposed zone name and legal description for the subject property;
      (2)   Proposed zone text which shall include:
         (a)   Permitted, conditional and accessory uses;
         (b)   Proposed development standards, including the following:
            1.   Land use standards establishing mix of land use types,
location and density;
            2.   Lot standards establishing requirements for lot area and
dimensions;
            3.   Building setback standards for front, side and rear yards;
            4.   Design standards addressing building height, building
orientation, common and private open space, natural resource protection and
architectural design;
            5.   Landscaping and buffering standards;
            6.   Signage standards; and
            7.   Parking standards.
         (c)   Proposed process for approval of development in the RSD Zone.
      (3)   A conceptual land use plan which shows the following:
         (a)   Location of proposed uses; and
         (b)   Location, arrangement and configuration of open space.
      (4)   A proposed project specific development agreement for the RSD;
      (5)   A project specific transportation study, prepared by a licensed
professional engineer;
      (6)   A project specific fiscal impact analysis, prepared by a
professional economist; and
      (7)   An infrastructure master plan with descriptive text and maps,
prepared by a licensed professional engineer, which addresses at least the
following utilities:
         (a)   Culinary and irrigation water;
         (b)   Sanitary sewer;
         (c)   Stormwater;
         (d)   Transportation plan, layout and proposed road cross-sections;
         (e)   Electricity provision;
         (f)   Natural gas; and
         (g)   Renewable energy.
   (D)   In considering a petition for an RSD Zone, the proposed zone text and
zoning map amendments may be modified by the county to meet the intent of this
chapter and may include regulations and standards other than those proposed by
the applicant.
   (E)   A proposed RSD text and zoning map amendment and schematic development
plan shall be approved only if, in the opinion of the County Commission,
development proposed on the property will:
      (1)   Conform to applicable provisions of the county’s General Plan;
      (2)   Conform to applicable provisions of this chapter and this code;
      (3)   Better preserve the property and neighborhood by integrated
planning and design than would be possible under other zoning regulations of
this chapter;
      (4)   Establish that development of the property will contribute
positively to the county’s long-term economic stability; and
      (5)   Present an infrastructure plan that will not be detrimental to the
county’s health, safety and welfare.
   (F)   Upon approval, each RSD Zone shall be given a unique name following
the designation “RSD:” and shall be independent of any other RSD Zone.
   (G)   After approval of an RSD Zone and schematic development plan, and
prior to the issuance of any building permits, applications for conditional use
permits, site plan approval, subdivision approval and any other needed permits
shall be submitted as needed to implement the schematic plan.
   (H)   Amendments to an approved schematic development plan shall be obtained
only by following the county’s procedures for zoning text and map amendments
and are considered an amendment to the RSD Zone.
(Prior Code, § 8-5J-2) (Ord. 11-17, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 155.252 RESORT SPECIAL DISTRICT: SNOWBASIN.
   (A)   The Resort Special District: Snowbasin Zoning District designation
(RSD: Snowbasin) is established as allowed by this chapter.
   (B)   All necessary land use regulations, and all other standards,
provisions and requirements, applicable to the RSD: Snowbasin Zone, are
provided by the adopted “A Development Agreement for the Snowbasin Resort,
Morgan County, Utah,” which is on file in the office of the County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 8-5J-3) (Ord. 13-14, passed 10-15-2013)
TOWN CENTER DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.265 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the town center design standards as set forth in this
subchapter is to enhance the economic viability and aesthetic value of the
county’s town center areas as an essential core for the county. These design
standards will also establish a unified mien of the rural recreational nature
for which the county is known.
(Prior Code, § 8-5K-1) (Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.266 SCOPE.
   Any lot or parcel located within the Town Center Zoning District(s), shall
be subject to the standards and regulations of this subchapter. Such standards
and regulations are intended to be in addition to existing standards and
regulations for subdivision of property and other applicable regulations of
this chapter.
   (A)   Design standards and guidelines. This subchapter establishes the
following kinds of design criteria: Design standards and design guidelines.
      (1)   Design standards are required in addition to other standards set
forth in this chapter and are indicated by the verb “shall.” In the event of
conflict between this subchapter and other applicable provisions of this
chapter, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
      (2)   Design guidelines indicate additional actions that may be taken to
enhance development design and achieve greater compatibility with adjacent land
uses. Guidelines thus use the verb “should” (rather than “shall”) signifying
that the guidelines are desirable objectives to be achieved but are not
mandatory requirements.
   (B)   Development agreement. A development agreement shall be required to
enumerate the standards and specific requirements for a development to offer
minor variations and more clearly define standards for individual projects.
      (1)   A conceptual plan and narrative discussing the proposing
development (including density ranges) shall be required to be submitted as
part of the rezoning application.
      (2)   The development agreement shall be submitted prior to or in
conjunction with a land use application in the Town Center Zoning District.
      (3)   The development agreement shall include, at a minimum:
         (a)   Proposed development standards, including the following:
            1.   Approved permitted uses from the table in §
155.132 of this code and use standards establishing a mix of land use types,
location and density;
            2.   Lot standards establishing requirements for lot area and
dimensions;
            3.   Building setback standards for front, side and rear yards;
            4.   Design standards addressing building height, building
orientation, common and private open space, natural resource protection and
architectural design;
            5.   Landscaping and buffering standards;
            6.   Signage standards; and
            7.   Parking standards.
         (b)   A conceptual land use plan which shows the following:
            1.   Location of proposed uses; and
            2.   Location, arrangement and configuration of open space.
   (C)   Mixed-use developments. Mixed-use developments shall have at least 35%
of the development area designated for commercial uses.
(Prior Code, § 8-5K-2) (Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-2018; Ord. 19-07, passed 12-3-
2019; Ord. 23-15, passed 10-3-2023)
§ 155.267 NONRESIDENTIAL AND MIXED-USE DESIGN STANDARDS.
   These standards are intended to improve the aesthetics and functionality of
nonresidential and mixed-use projects which help make the Town Center Zone a
more desirable place to live, conduct business and visit.
   (A)   Purpose. The specific purposes of this section include:
      (1)   Creating a sense of place and identification by forming a built
environment that exudes quality and superior design;
      (2)   Prioritizing pedestrian travel with improved walkability and safety
while still accommodating automobiles through site design standards;
      (3)   Improving the aesthetics of nonresidential and mixed-use buildings
with durable materials and design variations through architectural design
standards;
      (4)   Conserve the use of water with xeriscaped areas that utilize
drought-tolerant trees and plant species through landscape standards; and
      (5)   Creating vibrant, healthy and sustainable nonresidential areas for
the citizens of the county.
   (B)   Provisions. To meet the intent of this section, the following
provisions shall be applied to all new nonresidential and mixed-use
developments and exterior remodels within the Town Center Zone. For exterior
remodels, these standards shall be applied on a case-by-case basis as
applicable.
      (1)   Architectural standards. The design of a building shall be
considered on all sides of the building, with each facade being required to
meet the terms of this section. The following architectural standards shall
apply to new development and exterior remodels of nonresidential properties
within the Town Center Zone.
         (a)   General design concepts. New development shall be designed for
its specific context with a design unique to the Town Center Zone. Developments
containing two or more buildings shall possess a similar design theme, and the
site shall be designed such that the overall development is cohesive. Materials
should be complementary to building type, style, scale and finish. Colors that
conform to natural scenic beauty should be used to maintain the scenic nature
of the current community.
         (b)   Entrances. Street front entrances shall be developed on all new
buildings including sidewalk connections to the public sidewalk unless
otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator. If approved differently by the
Zoning Administrator, an unobstructed sidewalk connection from the door
location must be provided to connect to the public sidewalk. Areas between
building entrances shall utilize sidewalks, awnings, windows or other similar
pedestrian friendly architectural features (see Figure 155.267-1 below).
 
   Figure 155.267-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-56.png]
 
         (c)   Street facades. The facade that faces the street is the most
prominent in any nonresidential building. Buildings shall be designed with
large panes of glass on the main level oriented to the sidewalk (see Figure
155.267-2 below). The use of clear glass on the main level oriented to the
street in which the property is accessed is strongly encouraged for retail
uses. The use of faux windows may be allowed if the use does not allow for
windows on all sides of the building. Unoccupied utility buildings shall not be
required to have large panes of glass facing the street.
 
Figure 155.267-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58.png]
 
         (d)   Variation. Nonresidential buildings shall be designed with
architectural wall variations spaced at intervals of 30 feet to 50 feet in
linear width, depending on the size of the project (see Figure 155.267-
3 below). The following architectural features shall be incorporated into the
design of each facade of the building:
            1.   Change in building materials;
            2.   Building projections measuring at least 18 inches to three
feet in depth based on the scale of the proposed building;
            3.   Roof line variations measuring at least three feet in height;
and
            4.   Awnings and lighting, or another architectural variation
approved on a case-by-case basis that creates visual interest.
 
Figure 155.267-3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60.png]
 
         (e)   Vertical separation. Buildings in excess of two stories in
height shall exhibit architectural detailing that establishes a vertical
separation between lower and upper stories (see Figure 155.267-4 below). This
may be accomplished by a mid-facade cornice or trim, a change in material,
style or color, a facade step-back or roof pitch with dormer windows or other
methods.
 
   Figure 155.267-4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.png]
 
         (f)   Building materials.
            1.   The majority of each facade (51% or more of the wall area
excluding windows and doors) shall be constructed of the following hard surface
building materials: Brick, stone, treated or split face decorative block (CMU),
fiber cement siding and panels, wood, concrete or other durable building
material as approved by the Planning Commission.
            2.   Stucco, EIFS or untreated concrete block (CMU) may be allowed
by the Planning Commission as an accent or secondary material only (see
Figure 155.267-5 below).
            3.   The Planning Commission may approve metal as an exterior
building material on a case-by-case basis if an applicant can show that the
type of metal is of a high grade and provides architectural quality to a
building (see
Figure 155.267-6 below).
            4.   Vinyl siding and standing seam metal (see
Figure 155.267-7 below) are prohibited for use as exterior wall building
materials.
 
Figure 155.267-5
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-64.png]
 
Figure 155.267-6
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-66.png]
 
Figure 155.267-7
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-68.png]
 
         (g)   Screening. Mechanical equipment shall be located or screened so
as not to be visible from public and private streets. Screens shall be
aesthetically incorporated into the design of the building, whether located on
the ground or the roof, and may include such treatments as balustrades, parapet
walls or landscaping. Screening materials shall be compatible with those of the
building.
         (h)   Building architectural orientation. Buildings shall have their
architectural orientation towards the front of the property. The front of the
property shall be defined as the street frontage from which the building is
accessed. Buildings on corner lot sites shall have an architectural orientation
towards each right-of-way.
      (2)   Site design standards. The following standards address building
orientation and pedestrian circulation for the commercial areas of the Town
Center Zone, including its streets, parking areas, sidewalks, plazas and other
outdoor places.
         (a)   Orientation. Buildings shall be oriented to the right-of-way in
order to create a “street wall” along the street edge with a ten-foot front
yard setback to allow for some minor landscaped areas, courtyards or plazas.
         (b)   Office parks. Office parks with two or more office buildings
with a combined total of 100,000 square feet or more may be oriented to an
internal street or common plaza of at least one-half acre in size in order to
promote walkability and functionality within the development. As part of the
consideration, a concept plan will be required to ensure the overall
development is cohesive and proper vehicular and pedestrian circulation is
provided. When this development option is utilized, a minimum of 50% of the
street frontage shall have buildings up to the street.
         (c)   Location. In the case a project is located adjacent to a state
road or major arterial, a minimum 15-foot setback shall be required as measured
from the edge of right-of-way. Landscaping, courtyards and plazas are allowed
within the required setback; however, a drive-thru lane may not be allowed
within the required setback due to site impacts from potential street widening.
         (d)   Institutional uses. The requirements of divisions (B)(2)(a) and
(B)(2)(c) above may be waived by the Planning Commission for institutional uses
such as hospitals, maintenance facilities, fire stations, public utility
buildings, transit stations, public schools or other institutional uses as
determined by the Planning Commission. To allow institutional uses that require
access on all sides of the building flexibility to be designed in a manner that
promotes safety.
         (e)   Pedestrian circulation and street crossings. Nonresidential
projects shall provide a circulation plan and show the following site
improvements to improve pedestrian circulation and safety:
            1.   Pedestrian walkways that interconnect the adjacent street(s),
open spaces, parking areas, building entries and adjacent sites. Walkways shall
be hard-surfaced with concrete or asphalt;
            2.   Crosswalks where pedestrian walkways cross streets and
internal roads shall be constructed of concrete or asphalt;
            3.   Raised central median strips, bulb-outs and other traffic
calming elements as required by the County Engineer on a case-by-case basis;
and
            4.   Master-planned trail connections where a project is located
adjacent to a master-planned development or county trail, the trail connection
shall be a minimum six feet in width and must be constructed of asphalt or
concrete.
         (f)   Paving and surface materials. Sidewalks and walkways shall be
constructed of concrete and include accents areas with similar materials. Color
tones should be medium to dark in order to create a uniform setting for the
surrounding building materials and colors.
         (g)   Fences and walls. In general, fences and walls shall be limited
to the rear and sides of buildings, helping to reinforce the feeling of the
rural county as a small urban area. Fence and wall design shall conform to the
provisions set forth in §
155.345 of this code. Where possible, openings shall be provided in fences and
walls to provide pedestrian access to other neighboring nonresidential uses.
      (3)   Landscape treatments and embellishments. Landscaping shall be
installed in such a way that it enhances the built environment and creates an
aesthetically pleasing site. The following standards shall apply to new
development and renovations of commercial properties within the Town Center
Zone.
         (a)   Street trees and landscape elements. Installing trees in
addition to the standards set forth in the Town Center Zone design standards
and public improvements specifications is encouraged. Small ornamental trees
should be avoided and drought-tolerant species that will be large at maturity
encouraged.
         (b)   Xeriscape landscape. Xeriscape landscaping areas with the use of
native and drought-tolerant plant species provides improved aesthetics in Town
Center Zone. A minimum of 25% of the required open space area that is improved
must be xeriscaped.
         (c)   Street furnishings. Street furnishings should reflect the
character of the architectural and thematic style of the Town Center Zone.
Furnishings should be placed in safe, comfortable places and should take
advantage of key notes, plazas and views into and out of the site.
      (4)   Conflicts. In the event that these provisions conflict with another
section of this chapter or General Plan, the more restrictive provision shall
apply.
(Prior Code, § 8-5K-3) (Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.268 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   These standards are intended to create multi-family developments that will
establish permanent neighborhoods and provide a sense of community. To meet the
intent of this section, the following provisions shall be applied to all new
multi-family residential and mixed-use developments, unless otherwise modified
by the Planning Commission. For exterior remodels, these standards shall be
required.
   (A)   Architectural standards.
      (1)   General design concepts.
         (a)   New development shall be designed for its specific context with
a design unique to Town Center Zone.
         (b)   Developments containing two or more buildings shall possess a
similar design theme, and the site shall be designed such that the overall
development is cohesive.
         (c)   Building architecture, exterior materials and colors shall
coordinate.
      (2)   Side and rear facades. These design standards shall be applicable
to all sides of a building, with each facade being required to meet the terms
of this section.
      (3)   Building materials.
         (a)   The majority of each facade (51% or more of the wall area
excluding windows and doors) shall be constructed of the following hard surface
building materials: Brick; stone; treated or split face decorative block (CMU);
fiber cement siding; wood; concrete; or other durable building material as
approved by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   Stucco, EIFS or untreated concrete block (CMU) may be allowed by
the Planning Commission as an accents or secondary material only.
         (c)   The Planning Commission may approve metal as an exterior
building material and as a primary material on a case-by-case basis if an
applicant can show that the type of metal is of a high grade and provides
architectural quality to a building.
         (d)   Vinyl siding and standing seam metal are prohibited for use as
exterior building materials.
      (4)   Vertical separation.
         (a)   Buildings in excess of two stories in height shall exhibit
architectural detailing that establishes a vertical separation between lower
and upper stories.
         (b)   This may be accomplished by a mid-facade cornice or trim, a
change in material, style or color, a facade stepback or roof pitch with dormer
windows or other methods.
      (5)   Building entrances. Building entrances shall be oriented towards
the street or a common courtyard area and provide connecting pedestrian access
between the street or courtyard areas (see Figure 155.268-1 below).
 
Figure 155.268-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-70.png]
 
      (6)   Appearance. Two-family, three-family and four-family dwellings
shall maintain a single-family detached appearance to the greatest extent
possible (see Figure 155.268-2 below). Instead of each unit mirroring the
other, the dwellings shall be designed so that they have the appearance of a
large single-family unit. This can be accomplished by separating the entrance
of one unit from the entrance to the adjacent unit, or by utilizing grade
changes and roof line variety.
 
   Figure 155.268-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-72.png]
 
      (7)   Variation. Multi-family dwellings greater than four units shall be
designed with architectural wall variations spaced at intervals of 30 feet to
50 feet in linear width, depending on the size of the project (see
Figure 155.268-3 below). The following architectural features shall be
incorporated into the design of the building:
         (a)   Change in building materials;
         (b)   Building projections measuring at least 18 inches to three feet
in depth based on the scale of the proposed building;
         (c)   Roof line variations measuring at least three feet in height;
and
         (d)   Awnings and lighting, or another architectural variation as
approved on a case-by-case basis that creates visual interest.
 
Figure 155.268-3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-74.png]
 
   (B)   Site design standards.
      (1)   Garages.
         (a)   Townhomes shall be designed oriented toward public roads with
rear-loading garages accessed by a paved parking area or alley way (see
Figure 155.268-4 below).
         (b)   Rear-loading garages are highly encouraged for townhomes located
on interior project roads with units oriented toward a road or common courtyard
area.
         (c)   Multiple unit structures shall have garages incorporated into
the primary structure with a minimum of 30% of the lower-level gross floor area
utilized as garage areas; additional garages may be detached from the principal
structure. A carport structure may be allowed in lieu of the 30% garage
requirement.
 
Figure 155.268-4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-76.png]
 
      (2)   Natural features. Townhome and multiple unit projects shall respect
and maintain natural features such as existing trees, hills, drainages,
wetlands, bodies of water or other natural features.
      (3)   Development plans. Development plans shall include a landscaping
plan for the front yards, which shall be installed by the developer. For
projects with more than ten units, the landscaping plan shall include at least
one tree for every two dwelling units, half of which shall be coniferous
evergreen trees and one shrub of five-gallon size for each two dwelling units.
The coniferous trees shall be at least six feet in height and the deciduous
trees shall be at least two inches in caliper.
      (4)   Streets. Interior project streets shall include on-street parking,
curb extensions, sidewalk furniture and crosswalks.
      (5)   Fencing. Each multi-family dwelling project shall provide fencing
along interior property lines where incompatible or less intensive uses exist.
The required fencing must be a six-foot, sight-obscuring fence. Fences over
four feet tall or sight-obscuring fencing shall not be located between the
buildings and the street. Where there is fencing located along the street,
openings in the fence shall be required to allow sidewalk access from each
building to the public sidewalk.
      (6)   Amenities.
         (a)   Each multi-family project with ten units or more shall include
amenities for the residents of the project. Because each project will be
different in nature, the amenities are likely to be different.
         (b)   The number of amenities required shall be in proportion to the
proposed number of units in the development.
         (c)   Amenities shall be provided according to project size or
comparable equivalent amenities as required or recommended by the Planning
Commission and, if County Commission approval is required, as approved by the
County Commission.
         (d)   Amenities included are:
            1.   Picnic areas. Picnic areas shall consist of a barbeque and two
tables on a concrete pad with a cover;
            2.   Sports court. Sports courts shall be at least 500 square feet
and constructed with concrete or equivalent hard surface area;
            3.   Playground. Playgrounds shall be constructed of commercial
grade materials and include equipment for younger children and older children;
            4.   Club house. A club house shall be used for gatherings of
residents and be at least 750 square feet in size complete with restrooms;
            5.   Pool. Pools shall be subsurface and be no less than 20 feet by
40 feet in size;
            6.   Tennis courts. Tennis courts shall be professional regulation
size and be constructed of concrete or equivalent hard surface area; and
            7.   Splash pad. Splash pads shall be at least 300 square feet in
size, include a minimum of three vertical spray features, and be constructed of
concrete.
      (7)   Street wall and parking.
         (a)   Buildings shall be oriented to the right-of-way in order to
create a “street wall” along the street edge with no front yard setback except
to allow for some minor landscaped areas, courtyards or plazas.
         (b)   Parking shall not be located between the street and buildings
and shall be placed at the interior portion of the property (see Figure
155.268-5 below).
 
Figure 155.268-5
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-78.png]
 
      (8)   Xeriscaped. A minimum of 25% of the total landscape area must be
xeriscaped. Xeriscaping is strongly encouraged in passive open space areas with
turf grass used in a central active open space area.
      (9)   Pedestrian circulation. Multi-family residential projects shall
provide a circulation plan and show the following improvements to improve
pedestrian circulation and safety:
         (a)   Pedestrian walkways that interconnect the adjacent street(s),
open spaces, parking areas, building entries, adjacent sites and adjacent
master-planned trails where applicable. Each building located along a public
road must provide a sidewalk connection from the building entrance to the
public sidewalk;
         (b)   Walkways shall be hard-surfaced with concrete or asphalt; and
         (c)   Crosswalks shall be placed where pedestrian walkways cross
streets and internal roads and shall be painted or made of concrete or asphalt.
(Prior Code, § 8-5K-4) (Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.269 CONNECTIVITY STANDARDS.
   These standards are intended to create a connected transportation system
between neighborhoods and commercial areas within the county.
   (A)   Purpose. The specific purposes of this section include:
      (1)   Promoting walkability through additional connections and shorter
block lengths;
      (2)   Improving emergency response time;
      (3)   Increasing effectiveness of delivery access;
      (4)   Providing better routes to schools and parks;
      (5)   Reducing impacts of development on master-planned arterial and
collector roads by providing alternative routes; and
      (6)   Preventing isolated developments that increase dependency on
automobiles.
   (B)   Provisions. To meet the intent of this section, the following
provisions shall be applied to all new nonresidential developments within the
Town Center Zone.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BLOCK LENGTH. The distance along any given road frontage between two
intersections with three or more connecting links (see Figure 155.269-1 below).
Links that connect into a cul-de-sac shall not be considered the termination
point of a BLOCK LENGTH.
 
   Figure 155.269-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1500.png]
 
         CHICANE. An extension of a curb typically on a local street to provide
an element of traffic calming.
         CONNECTIVITY INDEX. A ratio of roadway links and nodes that serves as
a metric for measuring the level of connectivity.
         CUL-DE-SAC LENGTH. The distance from the street intersection to the
throat of the cul-de-sac bulb (see Figure 155.269-2 below).
 
   Figure 155.269-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1502.png]
 
         CURB EXTENSION. An extension of a curb in a roadway to narrow the road
at pedestrian crossings to provide additional safety for pedestrians and serves
as a traffic calming measure.
         LINKS. Streets that connect to nodes or external streets not included
in the proposed development.
         NODE. Street intersection or cul-de-sac located within a proposed
development. A street intersection exists where two or more named roads
intersect.
      (2)   Circulation plan. A circulation plan shall be provided as part of a
preliminary subdivision plat application.
         (a)   The circulation plan must address street connectivity,
pedestrian circulation, emergency access and parking movements. In cases where
cut-through traffic is likely, traffic calming measures such as curb
extensions, chicanes, raised crossings or other features may be required.
         (b)   The circulation plan shall show the connectivity index, block
length dimensions, cul-de-sac length dimensions, pedestrian facilities and any
proposed traffic calming features.
         (c)   The circulation plan must take into account access and
connectivity on adjacent parcels. On a case-by-case basis the Planning Director
and County Engineer may require changes to stub road locations if it will
increase the connectivity within an adjacent property.
         (d)   A circulation plan will be required for proposed developments
with more than one acre in project size or with more than ten units. The
Planning Director and County Engineer may waive the requirement for a
circulation plan on a case-by-case basis.
      (3)   Connectivity index calculation. The required connectivity index is
calculated by dividing the total number of links by the total number of nodes
(see Figure 155.269-3 below).
 
   Figure 155.269-3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1504.png]
 
         (a)   For the purposes of calculating the number of total links, one
link beyond each node shall be included in the connectivity index calculation.
         (b)   Street stubs that provide future access to adjacent properties
or streets that connect to existing streets are considered links.
         (c)   An additional one-half link shall be included in the
connectivity index calculation for each of the following:
            1.   Hard surface pedestrian connection through a cul-de-sac with a
minimum width of ten feet including an additional two-foot soft shoulder on
each side (see Figure 155.269-4 below);
 
   Figure 155.269-4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1506.png]
 
            2.   Hard surface master-planned trail connection with a minimum
width of ten feet including an additional two-foot soft shoulder on each side
(see Figure 155.269-5 below);
 
   Figure 155.269-5
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1508.png]
 
            3.   Internal hard surface trail segment connecting two roads with
a minimum width of ten feet including an additional two-foot soft shoulder on
each side (see Figure 155.269-6 below).
 
   Figure 155.269-6
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1510.png]
 
         (c)   An additional one-fourth link shall be included in the
connectivity index calculation for each roadway segment where homes face an
amenitized open space, park or natural area (see Figure 155.269-7 below). The
roadway segment shall have a minimum 300 feet of frontage along the said open
space.
 
   Figure 155.269-7
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1512.png]
 
      (4)   Residential connectivity standards. All new residential
subdivisions with ten or more units or more than one acre shall meet the
following connectivity index, block length and cul-de-sac length standards for
public roads. Private roads shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis; however,
a public road may be required to prevent a private road in a subdivision from
stubbing into a future or existing public road.
         (a)   Required connectivity index. The minimum required connectivity
index shall be required based on the project density as identified in the
following table of minimum connectivity index scores:
 
Density       Minimum Index Score
0 - 2.5 DU/AC 1.5
2.6 - 4 DU/AC 1.6
4.1+ DU/AC    1.75
 
            1.   Reduction in required connectivity index: The required
connectivity index may be reduced if the applicant provides clear and
convincing evidence that it is impossible or impracticable to achieve due to
the following limitations:
               a.   Topography;
               b.   Natural features including lakes, rivers and designated
wetlands;
               c.   Existing adjacent development;
               d.   Rail corridors; and
               e.   Limited access roadways.
            2.   Reductions in the required connectivity index will be reviewed
on a case-by-case basis and must require recommendations from the reviewing
departments and Planning Commission and approval by the County Commission.
            3.   The total allowed reduction to the required connectivity index
will be based on an analysis of existing conditions that prevent connections.
As part of the analysis, county staff will ensure the internal connectivity of
the subdivision meets the required connectivity index and that connectivity is
provided to adjacent properties where possible.
         (b)   Maximum block lengths.
            1.   Maximum block lengths allowed shall be required based on the
project density as identified on the following table:
 
Density       Maximum Block Length
0 - 2.5 DU/AC 1,000 feet
2.6 - 4 DU/AC 800 feet
4.1+ DU/AC    600 feet
 
            2.   Increase in block length: The maximum allowed block length may
be increased if the applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that it is
impossible or impracticable to achieve due to the following limitations:
               a.   Topography;
               b.   Natural features including lakes, rivers and designated
wetlands;
               c.   Existing adjacent development;
               d.   Rail corridors; and
               e.   Limited access roadways: Increases in block length will be
reviewed on a case-by-case basis and must require recommendations from the
reviewing departments and Planning Commission and approval by the County
Commission.
         (c)   Cul-de-sac length standards.
            1.   Maximum cul-de-sac lengths allowed shall be required based on
the project density as identified on the following table:
 
Density       Maximum Cul-de-sac Length
0 - 2.5 DU/AC 400 feet
2.6+ DU/AC    250 feet
 
            2.   Cul-de-sacs shall not be allowed in the RM-15 or RM-7 Zones
unless the applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that a cul-de-sac
is necessary to develop the entire parcel due to the following limitations:
               a.   Topography;
               b.   Natural features including lakes, rivers and designated
wetlands;
               c.   Existing adjacent development;
               d.   Rail corridors; and
               e.   Limited access roadways: Requests for cul-de-sac within the
RM-15 or RM-7 Zones will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and must require
recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning Commission and
approval by the County Commission.
      (5)   External street connectivity standards. In addition to the internal
street connectivity standards, external connectivity shall be maintained.
         (a)   Cul-de-sacs. In cases where cul-de-sacs have one or two rows of
lots between the end of the cul-de-sac and an external road, a hard surface
pedestrian connection with a minimum width of ten feet including an additional
two-foot soft shoulder on each side shall be utilized to connect to the
external street (see Figure 155.269-8 below).
 
   Figure 155.269-8
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1514.png]
 
         (b)   Pedestrian connections. Pedestrian connections shall be utilized
to connect proposed developments to master-planned trails and adjacent existing
or future developments where applicable. Connections shall be of a hard surface
with a minimum width of ten feet including an additional two-foot soft shoulder
on each side.
      (6)   Nonresidential connectivity standards. All new nonresidential
subdivisions containing the dedication of public roads shall meet the following
connectivity index and block length standards. Private roads shall be reviewed
on a case-by-case basis; however, a public road may be required to prevent a
private road in a subdivision from stubbing into a future or existing public
road.
         (a)   Required connectivity index.
            1.   The minimum required connectivity index score shall be one and
one-half for nonresidential developments.
            2.   Reduction in required connectivity index: The required
connectivity index may be reduced if the applicant provides clear and
convincing evidence that it is impossible or impracticable to achieve due to
the following limitations:
               a.   Topography;
               b.   Natural features including lakes, rivers and designated
wetlands;
               c.   Existing adjacent development;
               d.   Rail corridors; and
               e.   Limited access roadways: Reductions in the required
connectivity index will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and must require
recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning Commission and
approval by the County Commission. The total allowed reduction to the required
connectivity index will be based on an analysis of existing conditions that
prevent connections. As part of the analysis, county staff will ensure the
internal connectivity of the subdivision meets the required connectivity index
and that connectivity is provided to adjacent properties where possible.
         (b)   Maximum block lengths. Maximum block lengths allowed shall be
500 feet for nonresidential subdivisions.
            1.   Increase in block length: The maximum allowed block length may
be increased if the applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that it is
impossible or impracticable to achieve due to the following limitations:
               a.   Topography;
               b.   Natural features including lakes, rivers and designated
wetlands;
               c.   Existing adjacent development;
               d.   Rail corridors; and
               e.   Limited access roadways: Increases in block length will be
reviewed on a case-by-case basis and must require recommendations from the
reviewing departments and Planning Commission and approval by the County
Commission.
            2.   Cul-de-sac standards: Cul-de-sacs shall not be allowed in any
nonresidential zone unless the applicant provides clear and convincing evidence
that a cul-de-sac is necessary to develop the entire parcel due to the
following limitations:
               a.   Topography;
               b.   Natural features including lakes, rivers and designated
wetlands;
               c.   Existing adjacent development;
               d.   Rail corridors; and
               e.   Limited access roadways: Requests for cul-de-sacs within
nonresidential zones will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and must require
recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning Commission and
approval by the County Commission.
            3.   Cross-access: It is highly encouraged for nonresidential site
plans to provide cross-access to adjacent developments to allow auto and
pedestrian trips to occur between developments without the need of using the
street (see Figure 155.269-9 below).
 
   Figure 155.269-9
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1516.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5K-5) (Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.270 OPEN SPACE CORRIDOR PRESERVATION.
   These standards are intended to create a connected open space corridor
system between neighborhoods and commercial areas within the county.
   (A)   Purpose. The specific purposes of this section include:
      (1)   Promoting walkability through additional open space corridors;
      (2)   Preserve areas which allow for pedestrian access to the surrounding
area;
      (3)   Provide a buffer between residential and commercial uses; and
      (4)   Providing better pedestrian routes to schools, parks and commercial
areas.
 
   Figure 155.270-1: Town Center Open Space Corridor Plan
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1518.png]
 
   (B)   Open space plan. An open space plan shall be provided as part of a
preliminary subdivision plat application. The open space plan must address
landscaping and pedestrian circulation in the open space areas identified in
the town center open space corridor plan (see Figure 155.270-1 above) and shall
meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Trails.
         (a)   Trails shall be placed in open space corridors to provide
pedestrian access to schools, parks, residential and commercial areas as part
of the overall pedestrian network.
         (b)   Trails shall be maintained by private owners’ associations.
      (2)   Landscaping; landscape treatments and embellishments. Landscaping
shall be installed in such a way that it enhances the built environment and
creates an aesthetically pleasing open area.
         (a)   Street trees and landscape elements. Drought-tolerant species
that will be large at maturity shall be installed at least every 200 feet along
the open space corridors.
         (b)   Street furnishings.
            1.   Street furnishings such as benches, small play or exercise
apparatus shall be installed in the open space corridor.
            2.   Furnishings should be placed in safe, comfortable places and
should take advantage of key notes, plazas and views into and out of the site.
         (c)   Xeriscape landscape. Xeriscape landscaping areas with the use of
native and drought-tolerant plant species provides improved aesthetics in Town
Center Zone. A minimum of 25% of the required open space area that is improved
must be xeriscaped.
         (d)   Alternatives. Requests for alternative open space corridor
standards will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and must require
recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning Commission and
approval by the County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8-5K-6) (Ord. 18-06, passed 8-7-2018)
RECREATIONAL DWELLING OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 155.285 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Recreational Dwelling Overlay District (RDOD) is to
permit development of identified mountain areas that meet specific requirements
for seasonal recreational residential development and other activities to the
extent that they are compatible with the protection of the natural and scenic
resources of the area for the benefit of present and future generations.
   (B)   Because the location, accessibility, terrain or other similar features
of recreational dwellings are not easily serviced by local service providers,
development shall be limited in these areas to minimize disturbance to the
natural environment, lessen the fire danger, protect water supplies, protect
wildlife, protect natural resources and view sheds and protect and promote open
space values of the county.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, a SEASONAL RECREATIONAL DWELLING
shall be defined as a dwelling that is not a primary residence of the occupant
and is occupied for no more than 180 days in a year. (Further clarification of
a primary residence is outlined by the state’s Tax Commission in Utah Admin.
Code R884-24P.)
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-1) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.286 ESTABLISHMENT OF RDOD ZONES.
   The RDOD Zone is intended to establish areas of the county where
recreational dwellings may be allowed with customized zoning requirements in
order to permit recreational, seasonal dwellings. The RDOD is intended to be
utilized only where the General Plan’s future land use map allows recreational
uses. The following requirements shall apply to the establishment of any RDOD
Zone.
   (A)   Each RDOD shall be at least 100 acres in size.
   (B)   Each RDOD shall dedicate a minimum of 50% of the gross acreage of the
project in perpetual open space. Each RDOD application shall submit an open
space management and maintenance plan.
   (C)   A view shed analysis of any proposed dwelling units and access roads
visual impact to the adjacent properties and public roads shall be provided to
determine if the visual impact to the surrounding property is minimized to the
fullest extent possible. View shed requirements shall be (see Figure 155.286-
1 below):
      (1)   No ridgeline development;
      (2)   Development shall not project into skyline as viewed from major
roadways;
      (3)   Hillside shall use natural colors that minimize visibility through
building colors and landscapes; and
      (4)   All lighting shall be full cut-off and not impact view shed.
 
   Figure 155.286-1: View shed requirements. DAT 2008
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1520.png]
 
   (D)   To establish an RDOD Zone, an application shall be submitted for a
text and zoning map amendment as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Proposed legal description for the subject property; and
      (2)   Proposed zone text which shall include:
         (a)   Permitted, conditional and accessory uses; and
         (b)   A conceptual land use plan which shows the following:
            1.   Location of proposed uses;
            2.   Access roads; and
            3.   Location, arrangement and configuration of open space.
   (E)   In considering a petition for an RDOD Zone, the proposed zone text and
zoning map amendments may be modified by the county to meet the intent of this
chapter and may include regulations and standards other than those proposed by
the applicant.
   (F)   A proposed RDOD text and zoning map amendment and schematic
development plan shall be approved only if, in the opinion of the County
Commission, development proposed on the property will:
      (1)   Conform to applicable provisions of the county’s General Plan;
      (2)   Conform to applicable provisions of this chapter and this code;
      (3)   Better preserve the property and neighborhood by integrated
planning and design than would be possible under other zoning regulations of
this chapter; and
      (4)   Establish that development of the property will contribute
positively to the county’s long-term economic stability.
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-2) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.287 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted in this zone are:
   (A)   Recreational dwelling for seasonal occupancy only;
   (B)   Accessory buildings, allowed after a permit for a dwelling has been
issued;
   (C)   The keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl;
   (D)   Livestock grazing;
   (E)   Short-term vacation rental (as per §
155.350 of this code, county business license required); and
   (F)   All uses as allowed in the underlying zone.
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-3) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.288 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Uses requiring a conditional use permit in this zone are as follows:
   (A)   Commercial lodging;
   (B)   Private lodges (more than one family dwellings);
   (C)   Public buildings;
   (D)   Public utilities;
   (E)   Rural recreation grounds and facilities; and
   (F)   Other uses similar to those listed in divisions (A) through (E) above
and judged by the Planning Commission to be in harmony with the character and
intent of this zone.
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-4) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.289 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The maximum height for all buildings and structures in districts regulated
by this subchapter shall be 35 feet, except as specifically provided for in
other sections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-5) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.290 AREA, STREET FRONTAGE AND SETBACK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area in acres for any main use in the districts
regulated by this subchapter, except as allowed for utility uses and
governmentally operated essential service facilities in §
155.326 of this code, shall be 100 acres.
   (B)   The minimum lot area may be reduced if the clustering requirements are
met through a clustering plan, which meets the following requirements:
      (1)   Include at least 200 acres;
      (2)   Maintain a gross density of one recreational dwelling unit (RDU)
for each 100 acres;
      (3)   Maintain undeveloped open space of at least 50% of the total
acreage with a maintenance plan including financial provisions provided by the
homeowners’ association; and
      (4)   A common road shall provide access to each lot in which a
homeowners’ association is legally established. A perpetual maintenance plan,
including estimates of annual assessments and 30-year road maintenance costs,
along with provisions for management of the association, shall be included
within the CC&Rs for the subdivision. All CC&Rs and HOA corporate documents and
bylaws shall be recorded prior to or concurrent with the clustering plan.
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-6) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.291 WIDTH AND ACCESS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The minimum width in feet for any lot in the districts regulated by
this subchapter, except as allowed for utility uses and governmentally operated
essential service facilities in §
155.326 of this code, shall be 200 feet.
   (B)   Properties utilizing access easements for recreational dwelling units
are not required to meet minimum frontage requirements.
   (C)   Lots or parcels that are not adjacent to or share a boundary line with
a public or private road shall provide evidence of new easements for access to
the property for the purpose of a new recreational dwelling unit.
   (D)   Access easements shall be a minimum of 26 feet wide and shall be
recorded against adjacent properties in favor of the lot or parcel in
perpetuity and shall allow access for emergency personnel and apparatus, in
accordance with §
155.427 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-7) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.292 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard regulations.
 
                                                                    Districts
                                                                    RDOD
Accessory buildings may have the same minimum front yard depth as
main buildings if they have the same side yard required for main    8
buildings; otherwise, they shall be set the following distance in
feet from the rear of the main building
The minimum depth in feet for the front yard for main buildings and
accessory buildings in districts regulated by this subchapter shall 100
be:
Where the proposed minimum right-of-way is more than 66 feet, the   A
setback in feet shall be 1/2 proposed right-of-way, plus 30 feet
 
   (B)   Rear yard regulations.
 
                                                                 Districts
                                                                 RDOD
The minimum depth in feet for the rear yard in the districts
regulated by this subchapter shall be:
Accessory buildings                                              60
Main buildings                                                   60
Utility facilities and governmentally operated essential service 15
facilities
 
   (C)   Side yard regulations.
 
                                                                 Districts
                                                                 RDOD
The minimum side yard in feet for districts regulated by this
subchapter shall be:
Accessory buildings                                              60
Main buildings                                                   60
Utility facilities and governmentally operated essential service 15
facilities
 
   (D)   Fence regulations. All recreational dwelling units shall be required
to fence out livestock.
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-8) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.293 SLOPE AND SOIL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The maximum slope for any recreational dwelling shall be 25%.
   (B)   All sites shall have a soils evaluation according to §§
155.220 through
155.237 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-9) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.294 SEPTIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Septic tanks and bathroom facilities will be required to be
constructed along with any building permit. Separate bathroom facilities, if
detached from a main dwelling, shall also require a building permit.
   (B)   Wastewater shall be disposed of according to state and federal law, to
include sewage disposal or approved on-site wastewater disposal system.
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-10) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.295 LIMITED SERVICE AREA.
   (A)   Any structure permitted through this regulation may not receive any
county services including but not limited to fire, ambulance and road
maintenance.
   (B)   Private covenants shall address long-term development and provision of
services.
   (C)   Prior to receipt of a building permit, the property owner must execute
and record as an addendum to his or her property deed, and show proof thereof
to the Building Department, an owner’s acknowledgment of responsibility and
indemnification in substantially the following form:
 
   Owner’s Acknowledgment of Responsibility and Indemnification
      State of Utah   )
               ) ss.
      Morgan County   )
   We (I), the undersigned owners of the property located at (describe property
boundaries) acknowledge and agree to maintain and repair the private right-of-way,
driveway or road accessing the property described herein and any dwelling or
accessory buildings located thereon, and to remove snow and otherwise maintain
reasonable access to our (my) dwelling and accessory building(s). We (I) agree
that failure to maintain the road under all conditions may relieve Morgan County
of emergency service obligations. We (I) agree to indemnify and hold Morgan County
harmless from any claim, damage or liability that may arise against the county or
its employees, agents or representatives related to our (my) failure to maintain
the road under all conditions. We further acknowledge that failure of the local
jurisdiction or Planning Commission to observe or recognize hazardous, unknown or
unsightly conditions or to recommend denial of this conditional use because of
said unrecognized hazardous, unknown or unsightly conditions shall not relieve the
developer or owner from responsibility for the condition or damages resulting
therefrom, and shall not result in the local jurisdiction or Planning Commission,
its officers or agents, being responsible for the conditions and damages resulting
therefrom.
   Subscribed and sworn to before me this day of, 20         
   Signature(s)
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-11) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.296 FUTURE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Any structure or access permitted through this subchapter may be required to
meet subdivision standards with any future development.
(Prior Code, § 8-5L-12) (Ord. 18-13, passed 8-7-2018)
LIVE-WORK DWELLING UNITS (LWDU)
§ 155.305 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Generally. A live-work dwelling unit (LWDU), shall be permitted use
within the commercial districts as identified in §
155.132 and shall be regulated by the following standards and guidelines
defined below.
   (B)   Live-work dwelling units. A live-work dwelling unit shall conform to
the following standards and guidelines:
      (1)   A LWDU shall be permitted as part of a mixed-use development and
will be associated with commercial uses within the same building. The
residential use shall be incidental to the primary commercial use in the
commercial zone. At no time shall a residential unit be permitted to be located
above or adjacent to any hazardous use. If a live-work mixed use development is
approved, then all commercial uses that are permitted within the use table that
are of a hazardous nature shall no longer be permitted uses within that
individual primary business unit;
      (2)   No more than two LWDUs shall be permitted per primary business unit
within a development. Example: Flex space is being built on a CH parcel. Ten
primary businesses operate within this parcel. A maximum of 20 LWDUs (two per
primary business) are permitted;
      (3)   Minimum size of a LWDU shall be 600 square feet in size, shall be
located within the primary business, and shall be no more than 40% of the total
size of the primary business to which the units are tied;
      (4)   Setback requirements shall be the same as for the primary
structure;
      (5)   Site plan review shall be required either at the time of the
overall development along with the primary businesses, or if units are to be
added to an existing building or development. Site plan review shall be
required prior to the issuance of building permits;
      (6)   At the time of LWDU approval, the applicant shall demonstrate that
the property on which the dwellings are proposed contains a viable business
operation or will at time of development completion. The property owner shall
occupy a portion of the business structure. Employees or the owner shall occupy
the residential area above or behind the primary business structure.
Verification of occupancy shall occur each year at time of business license
renewal;
      (7)   Live-work dwelling units shall conform to the height limitations of
the primary structure;
      (8)   A certificate of occupancy for an LWDU shall only be granted
concurrent with or after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the
primary business structure within the development;
      (9)   A deed or restrictive use covenant or CC&Rs for property management
shall be signed and recorded by the property owner prior to building permit
issuance for the LWDUs Property Owner’s Association to handle the commercial/
residential interface. The restrictive use covenant shall be connected to the
principal business unit or structure on the parcel/lot and shall state that the
(LWDU) may not be sold separately from the entire property, including the
primary structure;
      (10)   The development shall comply with all architectural (§
155.152), open space (§
155.335), lighting (§
155.352), and parking standards (§
155.369) found within this ordinance related to commercial developments;
      (11)   Parking standards for both commercial and residential use shall
use the most restrictive parking standards of the types proposed, but shall not
be required to meet both as timing for commercial and residential use of a
parking lot may be shared;
      (12)   A building permit shall be required for an LWDU just as it would
be required for all other property development according to the International
Building Code and International Residential Code; and
      (13)   Short-term rentals are prohibited in the live-work dwelling units.
   (C)   Nuisances.
      (1)   Noise nuisances shall be enforced pursuant to the prohibitions
against disorderly conduct, as provided in state law or other provisions of
this chapter.
      (2)   No provision of this section shall be construed to impair any
common law or statutory cause of action, or legal remedy therefrom, of any
person for injury or damage arising from any violation of this chapter or from
other law.
      (3)   Complaints related to the above filed with the county shall follow
the regulations and requirements of §
155.999.
(Ord. 23-09, passed 6-20-2023) Penalty, see §
155.999
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 155.310 EFFECT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The general regulatory provisions set forth in this subchapter qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 155.311 SUBSTANDARD LOTS.
   The requirements of this chapter as to minimum lot area or lot width shall
not be construed to prevent the use for a single-unit dwelling of any lot or
parcel of land in the event that such lot has been held in separate ownership
prior and since adoption of this chapter and zoning regulations in effect prior
to the adoption of this chapter have been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-3)
§ 155.312 EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Every dwelling structure shall be located and maintained on a separate
lot having no less than the minimum area, width, depth, frontage and public
improvements required by this chapter, except that group dwelling complexes
under single ownership and management which are permitted by this chapter and
have approval from the Planning Commission, may occupy one lot for each such
multi- structure complex.
   (B)   If a property owner desires to build a new home and demolish the
existing home the county shall allow a building permit for the new dwelling
unit to be issued prior to the demolition of the existing dwelling with the
following conditions:
      (1)   Sign and notarize an affidavit outlining the demolition of the
existing dwelling and the timing for the demolition, which demolition period
shall not exceed 60 days. The affidavit shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Timing for the construction of the second structure.
         (b)   That the demolition shall be completed within the timeframe set
forth in the affidavit. If that does not occur, then the Planning Department
shall initiate enforcement procedures as outlined in §
10.99 and §
155.999.
         (c)   Cost of the demolition cash assurance bond submitted to the
county for review by the building official and Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Pay a demolition cash assurance bond with the county of 110% of the
cost agreed upon by the Building Official and the Zoning Administrator. If the
demolition of the existing dwelling does not occur within the timeframe
outlined within the affidavit, then the county will use the cash assurance bond
to demolish the structure.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-4) (Ord. 17-17, passed 3-21-2017; Ord. 24-04, passed 2-6-
2024)
§ 155.313 YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY.
   No required yard or other open space around a building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building, for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be considered as providing a yard or open
space for any other building, nor shall any yard or other required open space
on an adjoining lot be considered as providing the yard or open space on a lot
whereon a building is to be erected or established.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-5)
§ 155.314 YARDS UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed except
for accessory buildings in a rear yard and for the ordinary projections of
skylights, sills, belt courses, cornices, chimneys, awnings, flues and other
ornamental features which project into a yard not more than two feet and fire
escape structures projecting into a yard not more than five feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-6)
§ 155.315 CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS.
   (A)   In all districts or uses for which a front yard is required, no opaque
obstruction to view in excess of three feet high (above top back of curb) shall
be placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the intersection
of straight lines extended from the back of the curb (or future curb) and a
line connecting them at points 25 feet from the intersection of the curb line,
except a reasonable number of trees pruned to permit unobstructed views to
automobile drivers.
   (B)   Deviations from these requirements must be reviewed and approved by
the County Engineer, if found to maintain an acceptable degree of safety.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-7) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.316 SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE.
   No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this chapter for a lot or building may be sold or leased apart
from such lot or building.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-8) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.317 DIVISION OF LOTS BELOW MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area
requirements for the district in which it is located may be divided from a
larger parcel of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building
or development as a lot.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-9) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.318 PARKING IN FRONT YARD PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No portion of a front yard, as defined in §
155.008 of this code, shall be used for permanent parking of motor vehicles,
recreational vehicles or recreational equipment, with the exception of required
drives of not more than 30 feet in width.
   (B)   PERMANENT PARKING, as it applies to this subchapter, shall mean
parking for a consecutive period in excess of 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-10) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.319 USE OF LAND, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   No land shall be used or occupied and no building or structure shall be
designed, erected, altered, used or occupied for any use, except those uses
specifically permitted on the land upon which the building or structure is
located or erected or use established as permitted in the regulations for the
district in which said land is located.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-11) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.320 ABANDONED, WRECKED OR JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   Parking prohibited; exceptions. It shall be unlawful to park, store or
leave or to permit the parking, storing or leaving, of any licensed or
unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind, or parts thereof, which is in a wrecked,
junked, partially dismantled, inoperative or abandoned condition, whether
attended or not, upon any private property within the county for a period of
time in excess of 72 hours, except two or less such vehicles or parts thereof
may be stored if within a building or placed behind an opaque screening fence;
and except that said vehicles and parts may be within a junkyard or automobile
wrecking yard lawfully established pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Nuisance declared; removal. The accumulation and storage of more than
two such vehicles, or parts thereof, as defined in division (A) above, on
private property, except as set forth above, shall constitute a nuisance
detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the county.
It shall be the duty of the owner of such vehicle, or parts thereof, or lessee
or other person in possession of private property upon which such vehicle or
parts thereof are located, to remove the same from such property.
   (C)   Exemptions. Bona fide agricultural equipment and vehicles shall be
exempt from this regulation.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-12) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.321 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF MAIN BUILDING.
   (A)   Specified. No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than one
story above grade, except as may be approved by the Planning Commission upon a
showing that the structure is designed for energy conservation, will be a
finished building, and will comply with all county building and safety codes
and this chapter.
   (B)   Exceptions to building height limitations. Roof structures for the
housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment
required to operate and maintain the building, and fire or parapet walls,
skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, water tanks,
radio and television antennas, microwave or satellite dishes, except as
provided in §
155.322 of this code, theater lofts, silos or similar structures may be erected
above the height limits herein prescribed, but no space above the height limit
shall be allowed for purposes of providing additional floor space, nor shall it
provide for human occupancy.
   (C)   Special exception for additional building height. Where expressly
allowed by this chapter, and upon special approval of the County Commission,
after recommendation from the Planning Commission, actual building height may
exceed the height limitation if required building setbacks (front, side and
rear) are increased by a ratio of one and one-half feet of height to one foot
of additional setback. The Planning Commission must make a finding that the
height increase will not impair the view of neighboring property, nor
negatively affect the property values of abutting properties.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-13)
§ 155.322 SPECIAL ANTENNAS AND ENERGY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Satellite dishes.
      (1)   Earth station defined. Any apparatus or device, commonly known as
an earth terminal antenna, earth terminal, satellite communication antenna,
satellite antenna, microwave dish antenna, satellite television antenna or dish
antenna, which is designed for the purpose of transmitting and/or receiving
radio, television, satellite, microwave or other electromagnetic energy
signals, but does not include conventional television, radio and amateur radio
antenna.
      (2)   Applicability. Earth station regulations shall apply to earth
stations with a dish diameter over four feet in size.
      (3)   Location of earth stations in Residential Districts.
         (a)   Ground-mounted in all Residential Districts.
            1.   Maximum height: Maximum height from grade to the top of the
dish shall be 12 feet. Any ground-mounted earth station with a height exceeding
12 feet shall be allowed only with a conditional use approval from the Planning
Commission.
            2.   Number per lot: A maximum of one earth station structure shall
exist at any one time on any residentially-zoned property.
            3.   Front yard: If there is no other alternative for the location,
earth stations may be allowed in the front yard area only with a conditional
use approval from the Planning Commission.
               a.   Setback maximums from the public street shall be determined
by the Planning Commission.
               b.   Applicants shall provide a site plan indicating the
location of the earth station.
            4.   Rear and side yard: Earth stations shall be located in rear
yards, where possible. If rear yards are not acceptable for proper reception of
signals, the earth station may be located in either side yard.
            5.   Corner lots: On corner lots, the earth station may be situated
to the rear of the main dwelling and within the area between the main building
and street when approved by the Planning Commission as a conditional use.
            6.   Easements, rights-of-way: No earth station shall be located on
any legally recorded public utility easement or right-of-way.
            7.   Multi-family: One earth station shall be allowed per building.
A second earth station may be allowed with a conditional use approval from the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   Roof-mounted in all Residential Zones. If the rear and side
yards are deemed unacceptable for suitable signal reception, then roof-mounted
earth stations may be permitted with a conditional use review and approval from
the Planning Commission. Such roof installations may be permitted by the
Planning Commission under the following criteria:
            1.   Roof-mounted earth stations shall be mounted directly upon the
roof of a primary structure and shall not be mounted upon appurtenances such as
chimneys, towers, trees, poles or spires;
            2.   An earth station shall not exceed a height determined
appropriate by the Planning Commission. The height of the structure shall not
exceed the maximum height limits established within the zone in which the earth
station is to be located;
            3.   Evidence of wind loading and structural safety of the earth
station shall be provided to the Planning Commission by the applicants;
            4.   An earth station mounted on a roof shall be located on the
portion of the roof which is oriented to the rear yard rather than located on
the portion of the roof visible from the street; and
            5.   Other criteria as deemed appropriate by the Planning
Commission.
      (4)   Location of earth stations in Commercial and Industrial Districts.
         (a)   Ground-mounted in Commercial and Industrial Districts.
            1.   Maximum height: Maximum height from grade to the top of the
dish shall be 15 feet. Any earth station with a height exceeding 15 feet shall
be allowed only with a conditional use approval from the Planning Commission.
            2.   Number allowed: Two earth station structures shall be
permitted at any one time per separate commercial or industrial business. More
than two earth stations may be permitted with a conditional use approval from
the Planning Commission.
            3.   Advertising: No earth station shall display lettering or
numbers for advertising purposes.
            4.   Rear and side yards: An earth station in any Commercial or
Industrial District shall be located in the rear or side yard area, if
possible.
            5.   Front yards: An earth station may be located in the front
yard, provided the structure is not located in the minimum front landscape
area, and the structure does not interfere with pedestrian or vehicular
traffic.
            6.   Easements, rights-of-way: No earth station shall be located on
any legally recorded public utility easement or right-of-way.
         (b)   Roof-mounted in all Commercial and Industrial Zones. If the
front, rear and side yards are deemed unacceptable for suitable signal
reception, or pose a negative aesthetic or neighborhood impact, then roof-
mounted earth stations may be permitted with conditional use review and
approval from the Planning Commission. Such roof installations may be permitted
under the following criteria:
            1.   Roof-mounted earth stations shall be mounted directly upon the
roof of a primary structure and shall not be mounted upon appurtenances such as
chimneys, towers, trees, poles which exceed the minimum height of mast required
to mount the antenna to the roof, spires or similar structures;
            2.   The height of a roof-mounted earth station located in any
Commercial or Industrial District shall not exceed 12 feet above the highest
point of the roof upon which the structure is located. Height increases over 12
feet may be approved by the Planning Commission as deemed appropriate. The
roof-mounted earth station shall not exceed the maximum height limits
established within the zone in which the earth station is to be located;
            3.   Other criteria as deemed appropriate by the Planning
Commission; and
            4.   All roof-mounted earth stations shall be screened from view
from adjacent streets and properties in the same manner as is required of all
other roof-mounted equipment in this chapter. Said station shall not
significantly change the architectural character of the structure.
   (B)   Wind conversion. Wind energy conversion systems shall meet the
following standards.
      (1)   Minimum tower setback. Minimum tower setback from any property line
shall equal the height of the tower.
      (2)   Tower to meet main dwelling setbacks. Towers shall meet main
dwelling setbacks for the particular zone in which the tower is located.
      (3)   Safety measures. There shall be sufficient safety measures to
prevent the tower from becoming a climbing hazard.
      (4)   Easement, right-of-way. The tower shall not be located on a utility
easement or right-of-way.
      (5)   Joint ownership. In the case of joint ownership of a tower, the
structure may be located on any lot as approved by the Building Inspector,
providing the tower meets setback requirements mentioned above in respect to
all perimeter properties.
      (6)   Permit and certificate. The owner shall obtain a building permit
and certification by a registered engineer as to the safety of equipment and
installation.
   (C)   Solar equipment.
      (1)   Applicability. These regulations shall apply to all solar heating
developments, private or public, to the extent that design review is not
preempted by state or federal law.
      (2)   Review and standards. All applications for building permits for
structures with solar installations shall be forwarded to the Planning
Department for review and approval. The proposed installation will be reviewed
to ensure compliance with the following standards:
         (a)   Collectors shall not reflect sunlight into neighboring windows;
         (b)   The installation shall extend no higher than roof ridgeline, or,
on a flat roof, a parapet wall;
         (c)   The installation shall stand no more than seven feet above the
surface of the roof and shall not exceed the maximum height for structures in
the zone;
         (d)   The color of collector frames shall be compatible with the roof;
         (e)   The piping shall blend with the surface to which it is attached;
and
         (f)   The ends of the panel arrays shall be covered and mounting
brackets shall blend with the roof and not be visible from front yard.
   (D)   Planning Commission review.
      (1)   Necessity. If a review by the Planning Commission is considered
necessary, the development shall be reviewed at a regularly scheduled meeting.
      (2)   Information required. At the time of the meeting, the applicant
shall provide the following:
         (a)   Site plan;
         (b)   Drawings showing existing building elevations;
         (c)   Landscaping and screening plans;
         (d)   The kind, color and texture of materials to be used; and
         (e)   Any other pertinent information determined to be necessary by
the County Planner.
      (3)   Action. The Planning Commission shall approve, approve with
conditions or deny the development or structure.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-14)
§ 155.323 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to:
      (1)   Encourage major business activities to be conducted in appropriate
Commercial Zones;
      (2)   Allow for home occupations that are compatible with the
neighborhoods in which they are located as an accessory use;
      (3)   To safeguard peace, quiet and domestic tranquility within all
residential neighborhoods within the county, and to protect residents from
excessive noise, excessive traffic, nuisance, fire hazard and other possible
adverse effects of commercial uses being conducted in residential areas;
      (4)   Provide a means to terminate home occupations if disruption of a
residential neighborhood occurs; and
      (5)   To establish a class of businesses that is permitted in the home to
engage in the business of childcare and other group child activities.
   (B)   Home occupations license.
      (1)   A home occupation shall be conducted within the county in zone
districts where allowed by this chapter and in compliance with the following
provisions, unless it has been determined to be a nonconforming use pursuant to
§
155.365 of this code.
      (2)   A license to conduct a home occupation shall be issued by the
business license section of the Community Development Department.
      (3)   Approval from the Department shall be pursuant to the following
provisions or as a nonconforming use.
   (C)   Standards for approval of all home occupations licenses. The following
standards shall be complied with in the operation of all home occupations at
all times.
      (1)   The home occupation shall be an accessory use which is clearly
secondary and incidental to the primary use of the dwelling unit for
residential purposes.
      (2)   The home occupation shall not physically change or alter the
external residential appearance of the principal or accessory structures.
Interior alterations for the purpose of accommodating the home occupation are
prohibited if such alteration eliminates either the kitchen, dining area,
bathrooms, living room or all of the bedrooms.
      (3)   The home occupation shall not involve the use of any yard space for
storage or display of supplies, inventory or equipment when such use is in
conjunction with the sale or production of goods or services.
      (4)   There shall be complete conformity with fire, building, plumbing,
electrical and all other county, state and federal codes.
      (5)   The home occupation shall not cause a demand for municipal,
community or utility services that are substantially in excess of those usually
and customarily provided for residential uses.
      (6)   The home occupation shall not be associated with or produce odor,
smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light, glare, color, materials, construction,
lighting, sounds, noises or vibrations, or other nuisances, including
interferences with radio and television reception or other adverse effects
associated with its use as a business that may be discernible beyond the
premises or unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
      (7)   No process can be used which is hazardous to public health, safety,
morals or welfare.
      (8)   The home occupation shall not interfere or disrupt the peace, quiet
and domestic tranquility of the neighborhood by creating excessive noise,
excessive traffic, nuisance, fire hazard, safety hazard or other adverse
effects of commercial uses.
      (9)   Inspection during reasonable hours by county officials may occur as
necessary to ensure compliance with these regulations.
      (10)   All vehicles, including customer, client- or business-related
visitor vehicles, must be provided off-street parking at the location wherein
the home occupation is being conducted.
   (D)   Qualifications.
      (1)   No more than one person (living outside of the home) working a
maximum of 20 hours per week shall be engaged, volunteer or be employed on the
premises of the home occupation.
      (2)   Visitors, customers and vehicular traffic shall not exceed that
normally and reasonably occurring for a residence in the neighborhood where the
home occupation is located and shall be conducted so that the average neighbor
will not be significantly impacted by its existence. In no case shall the home
occupation exceed two vehicular customers and/or visits per hour, or six per
day, nor deliveries or pick-ups exceed more than one per day.
      (3)   (a)   The home occupation shall not generate or exceed eight
children, associated with group child activities (e.g., dance schools,
preschool, music classes, childcare centers and the like) at any one time. A
maximum of eight students/children is permitted per day. This number shall
include the licensee’s own children if they are under six years of age and are
under the care of the licensee at the time the home occupation is conducted.
This restriction shall not apply to those non-income producing childcare
activities (such as baby-sitting cooperatives, baby-sitting exchanges and
informal instructional activities for preschool aged children) conducted within
private residences.
         (b)   All child daycare center home occupations shall comply with the
requirements and standards of §
155.347 of this code and all applicable Building Codes relevant to the use.
      (4)   The home occupation may include the limited sale of commodities.
      (5)   Vehicles or equipment may not be used primarily for the purposes of
advertising the home occupation at the site of the home occupation. Vehicles or
equipment displaying such advertising should not be visible from the public
right-of-way. PRIMARY USE shall be defined if the vehicle is not licensed or
running or is not moved for a period longer than 72 hours.
      (6)   The receipt or delivery of merchandise, goods or supplies for use
in a home occupation shall be limited to vehicles with a gross vehicle weight
rating (GVWR) of 15,000 pounds or less.
      (7)   The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat
sign, for each street upon which the dwelling fronts. The sign must be placed
either in a window or on the exterior wall of the dwelling and may not have an
area greater than two square feet.
      (8)   No visitors in conjunction with the home occupation (clients,
patrons, students, pupils and the like) shall be permitted between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (9)   The home occupation shall be carried on wholly within the principal
building.
      (10)   No more than 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling unit, nor
in the alternative more than 50% of the total floor area of any basement of the
dwelling unit, shall be utilized for the home occupation.
   (E)   Category I classification; permitted home occupations. Home
occupations conducted in conformance with all of the provisions of divisions
(C) and (D) above are permitted when appropriately licensed by the county.
   (F)   Category II classification; designation and qualifications.
      (1)   Occupations that do not meet all qualifications listed in division
(D) above, but still desire to conduct a home occupation, and are not required
to obtain a conditional use permit approval under division (G) below, may
request review and approval for their home occupation from the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for a
specific use under this division (F)(2), may provide a public hearing and make
recommendation for any approval or denial of the application to the business
license section.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator, in order to recommend approval, must
find and require the following:
            1.   The proposed home occupation complies with all the standards
for home occupations set forth in division (C) above;
            2.   The proposed home occupation will be of benefit to its own
neighborhood by providing a necessary or convenient service to the residents of
the neighborhood, but not draw additional traffic from outside the
neighborhood; and
            3.   The category II classification home occupation will not be
carried on in a garage, accessory building, swimming pool or outside space.
         (b)   If the Zoning Administrator is able to make the findings set
forth in division (F)(2)(a) above, then the Zoning Administrator must
determine:
            1.   With which of the qualifications listed in division (D) above
the proposed home occupation will not be required to comply; and
            2.   What additional qualifications will be required of the home
occupation in order to ensure its continuing compliance with the standards and
minimal impact on the neighborhood.
      (3)   (a) Any approval granted under this division (F)(3)(a) shall be
under review and considered probationary for a period of up to one year until
reviewed and approved, approved with additional conditions or denied by the
County Commission as provided below.
         (b)   During the review period, the new category II use, together with
any specific qualifications and restrictions, shall be presented to the County
Commission for adoption as an amendment to this section.
            1.   If the County Commission approves the home occupation, it may
continue, provided the home occupation continues to comply with the standards
set forth in division (C) above and the qualifications set forth by the
Planning Commission and County Commission.
            2.   If the County Commission denies the use, then the home
occupation must cease operation.
            3.   The County Commission may choose to make modifications to the
qualifications as recommended by the Planning Commission, including, but not
limited to, those based on information and experience collected during the
review period. The home occupation must comply with the additional or modified
qualifications to continue to conduct business.
      (4)   The qualifications determined to be necessary for the proposed
category II home occupation will then apply to all home occupations which have
the same business use under the same conditions.
   (G)   Category III classification; conditional use permit required. Certain
types of occupations which have reasonably anticipated detrimental effects to
the residential character of the area, when carried on in Residential Districts
must be reviewed to determine if reasonable conditions can be imposed to
mitigate such effects.
      (1)   The following uses are appropriate in a dwelling only if they are
determined to be compatible with the neighborhood and with the public health,
safety and general welfare, and if conditions specific to that activity are
developed after full conditional use review by the Zoning Administrator and
compliance with division (C) above, applicable development code provisions, and
the additional regulations set forth hereafter. The Zoning Administrator may
determine, due to potential adverse impacts, that it is in the best interest of
the county to refer the application to the Planning Commission for review and
acceptance.
         (a)   Any child daycare center home occupation that is expected to
generate or exceed eight children at any one time:
            1.   A maximum of 16 children is permitted at any one time;
            2.   A maximum of 18 children is permitted per day;
            3.   This number shall include the licensee’s and any employees’
children if they are under six years of age and are under the care of the
licensee at the time the home occupation is conducted;
            4.   All child daycare center home occupations shall comply with
the requirements and standards of §
155.347 of this code and all applicable Building Codes relevant to the use; and
            5.   This restriction shall not apply to those non-income producing
childcare activities (such as baby-sitting cooperatives, baby-sitting exchanges
and informal instructional activities for preschool aged children) conducted
within private residences.
         (b)   Any home occupation that is expected to generate or exceed eight
children associated with group child activities (e.g., dance schools,
preschool, music classes, other care or instruction of children) at any one
time other than child daycare:
            1.   A maximum of 16 students/children generating separate vehicle
trips is permitted at any one time;
            2.   A maximum 32 students/children generating separate vehicle
trips is permitted per day;
            3.   Additional students/children who do not generate separate
vehicle trips may be permitted to a maximum of 16 students/children at any one
time and four sessions per day. Additional students/children will be permitted
only if the total number of students/children generating separate vehicle trips
does not exceed 32 per day;
            4.   The total number shall include the licensee’s and any
employees’ children if they are under six years of age and are under the care
of the licensee at the time the home occupation is conducted; and
            5.   This restriction shall not apply to those non-income producing
childcare activities (such as baby-sitting cooperatives, baby-sitting exchanges
and informal instructional activities for preschool aged children) conducted
within private residences.
         (c)   Repair shops, including welding, carpentry (use of three or more
woodworking power equipment), sheet metal work, furniture manufacturing,
upholstery and other such manufacturing;
         (d)   Repair shops for the repair or service of motor vehicles;
         (e)   Veterinary services;
         (f)   Massage therapy;
         (g)   Any home occupation which proposes or conducts activities within
an outbuilding, accessory building or garage, outside any structure or in a
swimming pool;
         (h)   Any home occupation using explosives or hazardous chemicals;
         (i)   Any home occupation which will generate in excess of two
vehicular customers or visitors per hour or six per day. A maximum of 12
vehicular business-associated visitors per day may be allowed under a
conditional use permit;
         (j)   Any home occupation proposing to employ or employing a person
working more than 20 hours per week or more than one employee (i.e., persons
other than residents of the dwelling unit who are engaged, volunteer or are
employed on the premises of the home occupation). A maximum of one additional
employee may be allowed under a conditional use permit;
         (k)   Any home occupation which proposes to use or uses commercial use
vehicles in excess of one ton;
         (l)   Any home occupation involving or proposing to involve food or
drink preparation, storage or catering. Such a home occupation will be
considered for a conditional use permit only when it is authorized by the
appropriate state or county department or agency;
         (m)   Any home occupation which proposes or conducts business between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; and
         (n)   Any home occupation that is referred to the Planning Commission
by the Zoning Administrator for purposes of Planning Commission recommendation.
      (2)   In addition to the conditions established by the Zoning
Administrator and/or Planning Commission at the time of its review, all
category III classification home occupations must comply with the following:
         (a)   The provisions of this chapter concerning public hearing
requirements;
         (b)   Division (C) above, standards of approval for all home
occupation licenses;
         (c)   All category III home occupation uses must be conducted from
property with a single-family detached dwelling;
         (d)   All home occupations licensed under this division (G)(2) require
an approved conditional use permit and home occupation license prior to
commencing business; and
         (e)   The Zoning Administrator and/or Planning Commission may
establish additional conditions for the category III home occupation use to
mitigate its effects on the area or for the general health, safety and welfare.
   (H)   Category IV classification; prohibited home occupations. The following
uses, by the nature of the occupation, have a pronounced tendency once started,
to rapidly increase beyond standards permitted for home occupations and thereby
substantially impair the use and value of residentially zoned areas for
residential purposes:
      (1)   Mortuaries;
      (2)   Animal hospitals;
      (3)   Clinics, dental or medical offices, hospitals, physical therapy;
      (4)   Junkyards;
      (5)   Commercial stables, kennels;
      (6)   Ambulance, tow truck or other emergency vehicle storage or repair;
      (7)   Food or drink preparation, storage or catering not permitted by
appropriate state or county department or agency;
      (8)   Health, fitness, aerobic, jazzercize classes, spa facility;
      (9)   “Boutiques” or craft shows;
      (10)   Auto body shop;
      (11)   Any process which requires the use of spray-painting equipment;
      (12)   Number of vehicular customers and/or visits per day exceeds 16 per
hour (for childcare or group child activities), 16 per day (for nonchild
daycare or nongroup child activities) or 32 per day (for childcare or group
child activities); and
      (13)   Any business, occupation, profession, operation, managing or
carrying on of a business for the purpose of economic gain, which activity is
carried on in a Residential Zone which is not specifically permitted by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-15) (Ord. 12-01, passed 3-6-2012; Ord. 17-27, passed 5-2-
2017; Ord. 22-02, passed 1-18-2022)
§ 155.324 TEMPORARY USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section sets forth procedures for considering and
approving a temporary use permit. The purpose of this section is to accommodate
certain land uses which are temporary in nature and are not permitted or
conditional uses in any zone. The character of such uses requires proper
conditions to protect the owners, occupants and users of adjacent property. The
provisions of this section shall apply to the temporary uses enumerated herein.
Any building or structure not conforming to the requirements of this section
shall be deemed a permanent use and shall be allowed only if such use is a
permitted or conditional use in the zone where the use is located. Uses and
events not specifically identified by this section are not allowed as temporary
uses. The requirements of this section shall not be construed to prohibit or
limit other applicable provisions of this chapter, this code and other laws.
Unless otherwise specified herein, temporary use occurrences shall be counted
based on either the applicant for the event or at the location of the event,
whichever is greater. This subchapter shall not apply to activities lawfully
conducted by a government agency.
   (B)   Authority. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue temporary
use permits as provided in this section, except for large events.
   (C)   Initiation. Any person may apply for a temporary use permit as
provided in this section, subject to compliance with the provisions of this
section and this chapter.
   (D)   Temporary use permit required. Unless exempt under the provisions of
this section, no person shall install or conduct any temporary use without
obtaining a temporary use permit issued pursuant to the requirements of this
section and this chapter and the development standards of this section. Any
event exempted herein from the provisions of this section may request the
assistance provided through the permitting process by submitting a complete
application, including payment of all fees, for a temporary use permit.
      (1)   Exemptions.
         (a)   Personal garage or yard sales conducted on a residential lot or
parcel as long as no nuisance or traffic violations occur;
         (b)   Neighborhood stands conducted by residents on their own property
for passersby;
         (c)   Approved county fairgrounds uses, as defined by this chapter;
         (d)   Use of sidewalks, trails or other pedestrian pathways as a means
of transportation of a group to or from an event or activity or for travel from
place to place;
         (e)   Events requiring rental or reservation of a county park or other
permissible county facility, but not including large events as defined by this
section;
         (f)   Activities or events within a structure or on a site for which
the structure or site were specifically designed, including, but not limited
to:
            1.   School sports, Little League or community organized sports,
activities or events, on school or other public property, regardless of public
or private schools, sponsored or sanctioned by the state’s High School
Activities Association (UHSAA) or the school district in which the school is
located;
            2.   Meetings or gatherings as a part of the normal course of
business; or
            3.   On-site school programs or activities for the attendance of
students, relatives and guests which are not of a money-raising nature.
         (g)   Events or activities that fully comply with all of the
following:
            1.   The event or activity is completely contained on private
property for which the property owner has given permission for the event or
activity;
            2.   Attendance at the event or activity does not exceed the
determined capacity for any building in which the event or activity will be
held;
            3.   No public services such as police, fire or ambulance, are
anticipated to be needed on-site for the event, whether for traffic control, on
standby or for security at the site;
            4.   Adequate restroom facilities are readily available on the site
for attendees at the event or activity;
            5.   Sales of alcohol will not be conducted as a part of the event;
            6.   Traffic, crowd or parking control is not needed to accommodate
attendees; and
            7.   No vendors profiting separately from the overall event are
within, a part of or associated with the event.
         (h)   Uses and events which are administered through §§
93.20 through
93.26 of this code, by the County Sheriff’s office; and
         (i)   Auctions.
      (2)   Uses allowed. Any person may sponsor or conduct for profit or
nonprofit purposes the temporary uses set forth below subject to the issuance
of a temporary use permit, unless under express provisions of this section no
such permit is required:
         (a)   Christmas tree sales;
         (b)   Farmers’ market;
         (c)   Festival, show, exhibit, circus, carnival, competition, outdoor
dance, community fair, concert, television or film production or other activity
of a similar nature;
         (d)   Fireworks stand;
         (e)   Produce stand;
         (f)   Motorized vehicle sales by a licensed dealer;
         (g)   Temporary construction or model home office; and
         (h)   Temporary retail sales.
   (E)   Procedure. An application for a temporary use permit shall be
considered and processed as provided in this division (E).
      (1)   A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the
Zoning Administrator in a form established by the Administrator along with any
fee established by the county’s adopted fee schedule. The application shall
include at least the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant’s agent, if any;
         (b)   The name and address of the applicant and the name and address
of every person or company the applicant represents;
         (c)   The person chiefly responsible for the event or use and/or the
sponsoring organization and its chief officer;
         (d)   The requested temporary use;
         (e)   The place, date, time of the event and hours of operation of the
proposed use;
         (f)   A statement of the approximate number of persons, animals and/or
vehicles which will participate in the event or be generated by the use and an
explanation of how said number was derived such as number of presold tickets,
available seating and/or parking and past experience with similar activities;
         (g)   The following maps, plans and documents evidencing sufficient
measures to be taken to reasonably protect the health, safety and welfare of
patrons and the public in general:
            1.   A scaled drawing of the area in which the event is to be held
or the use conducted, showing the location of any existing structures and
improvements on the site of the proposed temporary use, including, but not
limited to, parking areas, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and outside storage areas;
and
            2.   Sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the temporary use will
meet the general and specific requirements of this section and this chapter.
         (h)   Other such items as reasonably requested by the Zoning
Administrator to determine the feasibility of the temporary use.
      (2)   After the application is determined to be complete, the Zoning
Administrator shall solicit recommendations, as applicable, from the local Fire
Code Official, the Weber/Morgan County Health Department, County Engineer and
County Sheriff. Thereafter the Zoning Administrator shall approve, approve with
conditions or deny the application pursuant to the standards set forth in this
section and this chapter. Any conditions of approval shall be limited to
conditions needed to conform the temporary use permit to approval standards.
      (3)   After making a decision, the Zoning Administrator shall give the
applicant written notice of the decision.
      (4)   A record of all temporary use permits shall be maintained in the
office of the Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   Approval standards. The following standards shall apply to the
issuance of a temporary use permit:
      (1)   A temporary use shall conform to:
         (a)   The development standards set forth in this section; and
         (b)   Any recommendations received from the local Fire Code Official,
Weber/Morgan County Health Department, County Engineer and County Sheriff.
      (2)   No temporary use permit shall be issued unless the Zoning
Administrator finds the proposed temporary use:
         (a)   Will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or
working within the vicinity, or injurious to property, improvements or the
public in general;
         (b)   Will not substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement
of public transportation or other vehicular and pedestrian traffic in the area,
nor block traffic lanes or hinder traffic during peak commuter hours on
weekdays on any primary arterial street or principal commuter route designated
by the county;
         (c)   Will not conflict with construction or development in the public
right-of- way or at public facilities;
         (d)   Will not unduly interfere with the movement of police, fire,
ambulance or other emergency vehicles on the streets, nor require the diversion
of so great a number of police, fire or other essential public employees from
their normal duties as to prevent reasonable police, fire or other public
services protection to the remainder of the county;
         (e)   Will not conflict with nor be incompatible with the permitted
uses and regulations of the zone within which the temporary use is located; and
         (f)   Is in compliance with regulations, conditions and licensing
requirements of applicable provisions of this code.
   (G)   Appeal of decision. Any person adversely affected by a decision of the
Zoning Administrator regarding a temporary use permit may appeal to the County
Commission. In this case, the County Commission shall act as the appeal
authority, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. In cases where
the County Commission makes the final decision on a temporary use permit, such
as large events, the appeal shall be brought directly to district court, in
accordance with state law.
   (H)   Effect of approval. Approval of a temporary use permit shall authorize
an applicant to engage in the temporary use subject to any conditions of
approval.
   (I)   Amendments. The procedure for amending any temporary use permit shall
be the same as the original procedure set forth in this section.
   (J)   Revocation.
      (1)   A temporary use permit may be revoked when the Zoning Administrator
or his or her designee determines that actions taken thereunder do not conform
to plans, specifications or conditions of the permit; that the same was
procured by false representation or was issued by mistake; or that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated.
      (2)   Written notice of such revocation shall be served upon the owner,
his or her agent or contractor, or upon any person employed at the site of the
building or structure for which such permit was issued or shall be posted in a
prominent location; and, thereafter, no such construction shall proceed.
   (K)   Expiration. A temporary use permit shall expire as provided in this
section. Extensions of time shall be prohibited.
   (L)   Development standards; general provisions. The development standards
set forth in this section shall apply to any temporary use.
      (1)   Accessory use. As determined by the Zoning Administrator, a
temporary use shall be:
         (a)   An accessory use in the zone where the use is proposed to be
located; or
         (b)   Compatible, in terms of character and intensity of use, with
permitted or conditional uses allowed in such zone.
      (2)   Owner approval. The owner of the property where a temporary use is
proposed shall provide a written statement authorizing the use.
      (3)   Access. Specific areas shall be designated for ingress and egress
of vehicular traffic and for patron admission, ensuring the safety of patrons,
the exclusion of persons not entitled to entry and the enforcement of state and
local laws and ordinances. The adequacy of such areas shall be based upon the
number of patrons reasonably expected to attend the temporary use.
      (4)   Insurance. When deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator for
public health and safety reasons, a temporary use permit applicant shall
provide liability insurance for benefit of the county. Such insurance shall:
         (a)   Name the county as an insured;
         (b)   Hold the county harmless from any claim arising from personal
injury or property damage resulting from the temporary use; and
         (c)   Provide that the insurance shall not be canceled prior to giving
the county at least ten days’ written notice of such cancellation.
      (5)   Parking. Off-street parking associated with the principal permitted
or conditional use on the lot or parcel where the temporary use is located
shall be made available for the temporary use.
      (6)   Time limits. The annual duration of temporary use permits shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Auctions, boutique and craft sales: 14 days (not more than four
sales or auctions per year, which may add up to 14 days total);
         (b)   Fireworks stand, subject to all local and state laws: 30 days;
         (c)   Christmas tree sales: 60 days;
         (d)   Produce stand; farmers’ market: 180 days;
         (e)   Temporary construction or model home office: At any location and
for the duration of construction activity as long as construction is diligently
pursued;
         (f)   Festival, show, exhibit, circus, carnival, competition, outdoor
dance, community fair, concert, television or film production or other
enterprise of a similar nature: For the time period within which the use is
operated. Vendors operating booths, displays, demonstrations or services as a
part of these events will be considered permitted as a part of the permit for
the entire event, but may necessitate independent business licensure, as
required by the county’s business license official, pursuant to this code;
         (g)   Off-site motorized vehicle sales conducted by a licensed dealer
on private property may be held for up to 21 days per occurrence with not more
than three occurrences per year;
         (h)   The launching of fireworks displays may be conducted during
times permissible under state law. Fireworks displays are subject to the
approval and requirements of all appropriate fire agencies. The launching of
fireworks displays may also be subject to locational restrictions of the county
and all appropriate fire agencies;
         (i)   Temporary retail sales, in the form of tent or sidewalk sales
events, may be conducted for up to three consecutive months or 30 days per
occurrence with no more than three occurrences per year subject to the
following:
            1.   The sale is contained within the property setbacks or parking
areas with which it is associated and/or the sidewalk, exclusive of public
rights-of-way, adjacent to the permanent business conducting the sale;
            2.   The sale provides adequate pedestrian mobility through all
sidewalks and pedestrian walkways; and
            3.   The sale does not create safety hazards such as limited
visibility or other nuisances that could potentially result in accidents or
complaints such as access impairment or traffic or pedestrian impediments.
         (j)   A permanent business on a site may accommodate temporary retail
sales not directly associated with the permanent business for up to 180 days
per year subject to the following:
            1.   The sales operation is contained within the property setbacks
or parking area of an operating, permanent business;
            2.   The sales operation is conducted with the property owner’s
permission, including the availability of restroom use by the permanent
business for employees and customers of the operation;
            3.   The sales operation is contained safely within the designated
parking area;
            4.   The sales operation, including all stock and supplies, is
completely contained within a temporary, portable structure or fence;
            5.   The sales operation does not prevent or inhibit pedestrian
mobility through all sidewalks and pedestrian walkways; and
            6.   The sales operation does not create hazards such as limited
visibility or other nuisances that could potentially result in accidents or
complaints.
      (7)   Trash removal. All trash shall be removed and the temporary use
site restored to its prior condition within seven days after the temporary use
has been concluded.
      (8)   Inspections. Authorized law enforcement officers, zoning
enforcement officers, fire control officers and other governmental personnel
shall be permitted free access to the temporary use to make inspections to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this section, this code and state and
federal laws.
      (9)   Licenses. All requirements of this code regarding business and
event licensing shall be adhered to and may require separate approvals.
   (M)   Additional development standards; large events. Large events shall
conform to the development standards set forth in this section and this
chapter. Temporary use permits for large events shall be approved by the County
Commission, after receiving a recommendation from the county staff. Large
events are temporary uses which are not covered and administered by §§
93.20 through
93.26 of this code, and which demonstrate potential impacts based on the
following criteria:
      (1)   Criteria. Criteria which define what is considered to be a large
event:
         (a)   The number of anticipated vehicles per day is 100 or more;
         (b)   The hours of operation are proposed to be before 7:00 a.m. or
after 10:00 p.m.;
         (c)   The number of anticipated visitors is 250 or more;
         (d)   The proposed amount of acreage dedicated to the use is greater
than ten acres; or
         (e)   The total duration of the event is greater than seven calendar
days.
      (2)   Plans. The following plans must be submitted with the application
for a large event temporary use permit.
         (a)   Site plan. The site plan shall depict the proposed layout of the
entire property to be used for the large event. This site plan must include the
exact address of the property, the name and address of the property owner and
the name and 24-hour contact information of the contact person or coordinator.
The site plan must clearly show all entrances, exits, roadways, walkways and
parking, all sanitation facilities, medical and first aid stations, waste
containers, food stands, vendor areas and all other activities associated with
the event.
         (b)   Control plan. A plan shall be submitted and approved
establishing adequate provisions for traffic, crowd and patron control and
assurance of compliance with county, state and federal laws including, but not
limited to, fire, health, security and Americans with Disability Act
regulations.
         (c)   Sign plan. Applicants shall provide a plan showing the location
of all signs to be placed in association with the event. The sign plan must
include the total number of signs with the dimensions and size of each sign.
All signs must meet the requirements of this code.
         (d)   Security plan. A security plan shall be submitted to and
approved by the county establishing the number and type of enforcement and
security personnel needed to monitor and facilitate the event and provide
spectator or participant control and direction. The security plan must include
a list of names and contact information for all security personnel and
volunteers assisting with the event to ensure coverage and accountability on
the day of the event.
         (e)   Parking plan. A parking plan shall be submitted to and approved
by the county identifying areas for parking in a capacity to accommodate the
reasonably expected attendance at the event. Parking areas shall meet all
requirements and specifications of the Fire Department. If parking spaces are
not marked, parking personnel must be provided to ensure orderly and safe
ingress and egress from the parking area.
         (f)   Emergency services. First aid supplies, equipment and emergency
medical services must be made available to meet public health and safety
concerns and legal requirements.
         (g)   Sanitation facilities. Adequate sanitation facilities shall be
provided based on the duration of the event and on the number of persons
reasonably expected to participate.
         (h)   Trash removal. All trash shall be removed and the site restored
to the condition the property was in prior to the event before the applicant or
event sponsors leave the site. All trash must be disposed of properly and any
equipment used returned to its designated location. It is the sole
responsibility of the event organizers to provide appropriate means of trash
disposal and site cleanup.
         (i)   Events on public property. With proper authorization from the
County Commission large events may be held in public places or on county-owned
property. Events on public property must end by 10:00 p.m. on any given day
unless an extension of time is granted by the County Commission. A written
request to the County Commission must be submitted with detailed information as
to the need to extend the end time of an event. This approval must be completed
before a large event temporary use permit is issued.
         (j)   Events on private property. Large event temporary use events are
allowed on private property with the property owner’s written approval.
Notification of the event taking place shall be issued to all adjacent property
owners prior to the event. Large events on private property may not exceed
hours of operation as dictated by the County Commission’s conditions of
approval.
         (k)   Insurance. Applicants for large event temporary use permits must
provide liability insurance to ensure the health and safety of the public. If
the event will be held in whole or in part on any public property, including
public rights-of-way, mandatory liability insurance with a minimum $1,000,000
coverage will be required prior to the issuance of a large event temporary use
permit. The liability insurance must also name the county as an additional
insured and hold the county harmless. Applications without the required
insurance will not be accepted and the event will not be allowed to be held.
         (l)   Large events on vacant properties. Large events may be allowed
on properties which are vacant or undeveloped following application for and
issuance of a large event temporary use permit in compliance with the terms of
this section and chapter.
   (N)   Relationship to other requirements. The terms of this section do not
exempt or void the necessity of permits or approvals for a mass gathering
permit from any entity such as the county’s Health Department, local political
subdivisions, the state or any other agency or entity.
   (O)   Cash performance bond requirements.
      (1)   Firework stands. A cash performance deposit shall be posted with
the county in the amount authorized by the county’s adopted fee schedule for
the purposes guaranteeing removal of the stand immediately after expiration of
the temporary use permit.
      (2)   Large events. A cash performance deposit, in the amount authorized
by the county’s adopted fee schedule, shall be posted to guarantee cleanup and
sanitation.
      (3)   Other temporary uses. As determined by the Zoning Administrator or
County Commission, as applicable, a cash performance deposit to guarantee
compliance with the conditions of approval and the standards of this section
may be required. Minimum performance deposit amount is per the county’s adopted
fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-16) (Ord. 11-11, passed 9-20-2011)
§ 155.325 BONDING FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   Developers of any required on-site or off-site improvements in the
county, including developments approved at conditional use permit, site plan
review or subdivision approval, shall be required to enter into an improvement
guarantee agreement with the county and to deposit the required improvement
guarantee funds directly with the County Treasurer, prior to issuance of
building or excavation permit, the recording of the subdivision, the issuance
of a business license or other time as specified in the land use approval.
      (2)   The amount of the bond shall be the total of the reasonable
construction costs of improvements plus 15%. Required improvements may include,
but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
         (a)   Curb, gutter and drive approaches;
         (b)   Sidewalk;
         (c)   Waterway;
         (d)   Median;
         (e)   Road base;
         (f)   Paving and striping;
         (g)   Fire hydrants;
         (h)   Water mains, appurtenances;
         (i)   Copper lateral;
         (j)   Flood control and irrigation systems;
         (k)   Any other required public or private improvements required by
the land use authority;
         (l)   Streetlights;
         (m)   Landscaping and irrigation systems;
         (n)   Erosion control and revegetation; and
         (o)   Fencing.
   (B)   Amount specified in construction bid. In calculating the amount of the
required financial guarantee, the County Engineer may, in his or her sole
discretion, accept the amount specified in a construction bid as the reasonable
cost of the improvements.
   (C)   Repair of damaged public improvements. The financial guarantee funds
deposited pursuant to this division (C) shall also guarantee the repair or
replacement of any public improvements damaged prior to the final acceptance
for maintenance. The county shall notify the owner/developer or contractor of
any such damage and shall require repair or replacement of the damaged public
improvements within a reasonable time, but no later than 30 days, weather
permitting. Upon the failure of the owner/developer or contractor to make the
specified repairs, the county may take whatever legal action it deems
appropriate, including utilization of the deposited financial guarantee funds,
to secure the repairs.
   (D)   One-year extension. Fifteen percent of the bond amount for off-site
public improvements shall extend for a one-year period beyond the date the
improvements are completed, final inspection is made and they are accepted by
the county to guarantee replacement of defective public improvements. Upon
completion of the improvements, the owner/developer and/or contractor shall
call for inspections of the improvements by the County Engineer.
   (E)   Specified sequence. If the County Engineer determines that the
required improvements should be completed in a specified sequence and/or in
less than a two-year period in order to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the county or its residents from traffic, flood, drainage or other hazards,
the County Engineer may require that the improvements be installed in a
specified sequence and period which may be less than two years and shall
incorporate such requirements in the improvement guarantee agreement.
   (F)   Type of improvement guarantee. Every improvement required by this
section shall be guaranteed by an agreement approved by the County Attorney as
to form. The only acceptable method of financial guarantee is funds deposited
directly in the office of the County Treasurer. The improvement guarantee form
shall include:
      (1)   Separate itemization of each type of improvement with the estimated
cost thereof;
      (2)   A statement that no more than 80% of the face of estimated amount
for any given improvement may be released prior to final acceptance and upon
final acceptance. Fifteen percent of such amount will be held for one year
after final inspection and acceptance for maintenance and available to the
county in case of defective quality of work or materials;
      (3)   A statement that the developer certifies that he or she has or will
notify all subcontractors working under him or her that the county may release
no more than 80% of the bond as aforesaid prior to final acceptance; and
      (4)   A statement that before more than 60% of any item shall be
released, there shall be filed with the County Engineer a statement that no
materialman liens or mechanic liens exist with regard to the improvements
related to any part of the bond.
   (G)   Duration, terms, second bond.
      (1)   Every improvement guarantee authorized by this section shall run to
the benefit of the county and have an express term of at least one year from
the date of approval for the land use application to which it applies. Further,
such improvement guarantee shall contain language guaranteeing the performance
of the developer and a provision for unconditional payment of the face amount
of the bond within five days from any declaration of default or forfeiture.
      (2)   No partial release of any deposited financial guarantee funds shall
be made prior to the final acceptance for maintenance of off-site improvements
and said site plan. Immediately prior to final acceptance of the improvements
required by the site plan.
   (H)   Default. In the event the developer is in default or fails or neglects
to satisfactorily install the required utilities and improvements within two
years from the date of approval of the land use application by the county, or
other time as specified by condition of the land use permit issuance, the
county may declare the deposited financial guarantee funds forfeited and the
county may, in its sole discretion, install or cause the required improvements
to be installed, using the deposited funds to defray the expense thereof and
administrative overhead.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-17) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 155.326 UTILITIES.
   (A)   On unplatted property and lots outside of platted subdivisions, the
following shall apply.
      (1)   No pipe, line for water, gas, sewage, drainage, steam or any other
service customarily placed underground shall be installed, altered or replaced,
upon any lot (outside of any building) above the surface of the ground, except
for hoses, movable pipes used for irrigation or other purpose during
construction.
      (2)   Electrical power and cable service may be extended overhead from
existing power and cable sources adjacent to the property or lot for any new
single-family residential use or remodel, or any new agricultural use, remodel
or upgrade, as long as the extension does not cross an improved public street
or road.
      (3)   The extension of electrical power or cable service across an
improved public street or road shall be placed underground unless the County
Engineer or designee determines that it is not practicable to do so. In
determining practicability, objective findings shall be clearly documented that
consider the unique circumstances of each case.
   (B)   Within a platted subdivision, all new utility lines shall be placed
underground in designated easements. No pipe, conduit, cable, line for water,
gas, sewage, drainage, steam, electricity or any other energy or service shall
be installed, and no pole or other support structure therefor shall be erected,
altered or replaced, upon any lot (outside of any building) above the surface
of the ground, except for hoses, movable pipes used for irrigation or other
purpose during construction.
   (C)   For large-scale electrical transmission projects, overhead utility
lines may be allowed if approved through the conditional use process as
provided in §
155.332 of this code.
   (D)   Transformers, substations, transmission, pump and/or related generator
facilities shall be grouped with other utility meters where possible and
screened or fenced in accordance with §
155.345 of this code.
      (1)   Gas meters and electric service meters and panels shall be located
on the side of the building.
      (2)   Buildings greater than 120 square feet shall be reviewed for
architectural compliance by the Zoning Administrator and shall present a color
scheme which is earth toned in color so as to match the natural environment of
the surrounding area. Lighting shall be focused and downward directional.
      (3)   The maximum height of any building is 20 feet, as measured to the
bottom of the eave, except as specifically provided for in other sections of
this chapter.
   (E)   Lot area, width, depth, frontage and coverage regulations for an
electrical transmission substation; a natural gas pipeline regulation station;
an unmanned telecommunications, microwave, fiber optics, electrical or other
utility service regeneration, transformation or amplification facility; a
community water system facility, storage tank or well house or governmentally
operated essential service facilities shall be:
      (1)   All lots or parcels shall contain an area of sufficient size and
dimension to safely accommodate the utility facility or use, any required
landscaping and the required setback and yard regulations as specified in the
applicable zoning ordinance regulating the property. Front yard depth
requirements may be reduced to no less than ten feet if the following findings
can be made. Typical setback is not necessary to:
         (a)   Maintain intersection safety sight distance;
         (b)   Maintain vehicle and pedestrian safety; and
         (c)   Maintain building visual continuity in the vicinity.
      (2)   No frontage is required along a public right-of-way if clear and
legal access exists from a public right-of-way to the site for the purpose of
the utility use.
   (F)   Each contractor and owner/developer shall be responsible to know the
whereabouts of all underground utilities. Protection of such utilities shall
also be their responsibility. Prior to construction, contact must be made with
“blue stakes” and other local public utilities to identify underground utility
lines.
   (G)   This section does not require removal of any existing electrical
transmission facilities and electrical distribution lines, nor does it restrict
the repair, minor relocation and maintenance of any such existing facilities,
except that the developer shall be responsible for the removing of utility
poles out of the public right-of-way that may be left in the right-of-way after
public improvements associated with the project are completed. All utility
lines associated with the preexisting utility poles shall be placed
underground.
   (H)   Aboveground utility boxes or other appurtenances are prohibited in
designated snow storage easements.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-18) (Ord. 12-12, passed 12-4-2012) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.327 STORAGE OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   No trucks, motor vehicles or commercial trailers which exceed the rated
capacity of two tons shall be stored on the required front yard of any lot or
parcel within any Residential Zone, nor shall any contracting and/or
earthmoving equipment be stored or parked on any front yard setback of lot or
parcel in a Residential Zone or within any public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-19) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.328 EFFECT OF STREET PLAN.
   Whenever a front or side yard is required for buildings abutting on a
proposed street which has not been dedicated or constructed, but which has been
designated by the Planning Commission as a future street on the official map,
the depth of such front or side yards shall be measured from the nearest line
of the planned street.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-20)
§ 155.329 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Setback. Swimming pools of permanent construction which are not
enclosed within a building shall be set back at least five feet from all
property lines.
   (B)   Fencing. Swimming pools, with or without covers, shall be completely
surrounded by a fence or wall having a height of at least six feet. There shall
be no openings larger than 36 square inches, except for gates which shall be
equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-21) (Ord. 18-08, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 155.330 UNKEMPT YARDS.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   It is a violation of this chapter to have any plants, grass or
weeds growing uncultivated and out of control on certain property within the
county which is visible from any public way, street, sidewalk or alley and is
declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated in accordance with the
procedure as set forth in this section or §§
155.020 through
155.032 of this code. Applicable properties governed by this section shall be
those properties which are any of the following: Yard or lot areas that have
been improved for residential use; a recorded subdivision lot or portion deemed
as the building envelope; pad or yard area; or dedicated or platted open space,
whether native or improved.
      (2)   UNTENDED, RANK AND UNMANAGED GROWTH OF VEGETATION is defined as a
plant with a seed head formed or forming and with a height of eight inches or
more. This prohibition shall not apply to vegetation native to the state, such
as sagebrush, native grasses and exclusive of trees and shrubs, as well as
cultivated crops such as alfalfa and the like.
   (B)   Notice; abatement.
      (1)   Notice shall be by certified mail, in accordance with the code
enforcement procedures outlined in §§
155.020 through
155.032 of this code, except that period for correction shall be ten days after
mailing said notice as a period of time to eliminate said violations.
      (2)   Upon failure of the owner or person in possession or control to act
within the prescribed correction period, the county may perform the required
action and assess cost against the property for collection in the same manner
as property tax, as well as seeking additional fines as outlined in §§
155.020 through
155.032 of this code.
   (C)   Exceptions. Properties which have been declared greenbelt shall be
exempt from enforcement under this section, with the exception of those
properties which have been dedicated as open space of an approved subdivision
and are subject to maintenance provisions of a development agreement or
similar.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-22) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.331 STANDARDS FOR APPROVING STORAGE OR SALVAGE YARD.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent and purpose of this section is to
protect the community and neighboring properties from litter, vermin, a loss of
property value or other ill effects of an unsightly or uncontained storage,
junk or salvage yards.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to
industrial storage yards and automobile wrecking yards authorized by zoning
sections.
   (C)   Conditions for granting permit. The Planning Commission may grant a
permit for an automobile wrecking yard or an industrial storage yard, provided
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Such use is located in a zone in which the use is a conditionally
permitted use;
      (2)   All industrial supplies, building materials, automobiles (except
currently licensed vehicles of employees or visiting customers which are parked
in the designated off-street parking lot provided as per § 155.369 of this
code), parts and other items, whether functional or not, which are stored
outside of a building, shall be surrounded by a well-maintained sight-obscuring
fence;
      (3)   The sight-obscuring fence shall be constructed to a height of at
least eight feet and must obscure all storage items from view from any adjacent
public street and adjacent parcel of land;
      (4)   Any parts or materials which are light enough to blow in the wind
shall be kept in an enclosed building; and
      (5)   Off-street parking shall be provided according to the standards of
§
155.369 of this code, and landscaping shall be provided within the front
setback area (except for portions used for parking) according to the standard
of §
155.369 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-23)
§ 155.332 LARGE-SCALE UTILITY LINE INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to allow the installation of
major electric power, natural gas and water transmission lines, while meeting
the responsibility to provide for the health, safety and general welfare of the
public and protect the environment.
   (B)   Zones permitted. Large-scale utility line installations shall be
permitted only in those zones where such are listed as a permitted conditional
use, and permits granted only in compliance with this chapter and the
regulations of this section.
   (C)   Plans and documents required. Before a permit can be issued for any
construction connected with a large-scale utility line installation, the
overall plans, together with documents pertaining to the development, must be
submitted and approved as hereinafter set forth.
      (1)   Application and meeting with Community Development Director.
Application forms to appear before the Planning Commission and County
Commission for a large-scale utility line installation shall be obtained from
the Community Development Director and must be properly completed to initiate
the approval process. Prior to applying, the applicants should meet with the
Community Development Director to become familiar with the approval process.
      (2)   Planning Commission review and recommendation. All applications and
plans for a large-scale utility installation shall constitute an application
for amendment to the General Plan of the county and submitted to the Planning
Commission for its recommendations. The Planning Commission shall schedule and
hold a public hearing on the proposal, publishing a notice in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter and the state’s Open and Public Meetings Act,
being UCA §§ 52-4-1 et seq., as applicable. After holding a hearing and
reviewing the proposed plans, the Planning Commission shall recommend approval,
disapproval or changes in the proposal, and the reasons therefor, to the County
Commission.
      (3)   Conditional approval. After the receiving recommendation from the
Planning Commission, the County Commission may approve the application and plan
as submitted, may amend the plan and approve the application with such
amendment, or reject the application, and may base its findings on the hearing,
the recommendations of the Planning Commission or other facts it has gathered
in its deliberative process.
      (4)   Conditional use permit and bond. Upon approval for the utility line
installation, the County Commission may authorize the Community Development
Director to issue a building permit to commence construction and to state the
conditions that apply to such permit. Where public road cuts or considerable
grading or other disruptive work will be involved in the construction of the
line, the County Commission may require the installers to post a bond to
guarantee the conditions of approval will be met. The bond shall be returned at
the completion of work and upon meeting the conditions of approval.
      (5)   Reproducible drawing. The Community Development Director shall
obtain a reproducible drawing of the location of the large-scale utility line
from the applicant as part of the building permit process.
      (6)   Reclamation plan for private property. Where said utility line
crosses private property, the conditional use permit shall require that a
reclamation plan be filed with the County Recorder’s office, detailing specific
reclamation work to be completed within one year of completion of the
installation, estimated costs and bonding in favor of the property owner and/or
county in an amount which is equivalent to 125% of the cost of the reclamation,
as determined by a licensed reclamation contractor and approved by the County
Engineer. The reclamation plan shall be in a form as approved by the county and
shall provide a method by which private property owners may participate and
specify particulars related solely to the reclamation of the property (i.e.,
removal of rocks, compaction of soil, planting types and timing, irrigation
system treatment, fence repair, preferred access points to property and the
like). Said property owners shall be mailed a certified copy of the reclamation
plan, as approved by the county, specific to their property, and shall be
afforded a 45-day time period upon which to submit reclamation plan amendments.
Said amendments shall be added to the reclamation plan if not appealed to the
Planning Commission by the applicant as unreasonable and or unrelated to the
reclamation of the project. The Planning Commission shall have final
determination on the content of the reclamation plan and any amendments to the
plan shall be recorded as conditions of the conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-24)
§ 155.333 MAJOR CAMPGROUNDS FOR NONCOMMERCIAL USE.
   The Planning Commission, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
may approve a conditional use permit for a major campground for noncommercial
use, along with appurtenant campsite facilities, provided the following
provisions are met:
   (A)   Site plan. The Planning Commission has first received from the owner
or agent of the owner of land in a qualifying zone a site plan (layout) of the
campground and appurtenant facilities, plus a program of management, which plan
and program are consistent with the requirements and standards of this and all
other applicable sections of this chapter.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   The campground and appurtenant facilities shall be for the private,
noncommercial use of individuals or nonprofit corporations, plus storage sheds
and lodges with temporary group quarters.
      (2)   The campground shall be located in an A-20, MU-160 or F-1 Zone, and
meet the minimum area requirements of the zone.
      (3)   The location and size of the campground shall be consistent with
the major street plan and other elements of the adopted General Plan.
      (4)   The design of the campground (including the number of tent sites,
recreation vehicle pads and parking spaces, the road and walkway system, the
water system, the sewage disposal facility, the trash collection facilities,
the fire protection facilities, the amount of open space and common area and
the like) shall be adequate for the number of persons permitted to use the
facility.
         (a)   One automobile parking space shall be provided for each tent
site, recreation vehicle space or similar camp space. In group facilities, each
five people shall be equivalent to one camp space in calculating the number of
automobile parking spaces or other amenities.
         (b)   Roadways shall be a minimum of 12 feet in width and have no
curve where the radius of the centerline is less than 45 feet.
      (5)   The campground has guaranteed vehicular access from a state or
county road by a deeded easement or the equivalent, and the access road is
adequate to handle emergency vehicles, as well as the anticipated traffic
volume.
      (6)   Adequate water rights, water supply and distribution systems and
sewage disposal systems are provided by the applicant which meet federal, state
and any local health, county and Planning Commission standards.
      (7)   Solid waste (garbage) collection facilities and a program of
disposal are provided by the applicant which meet federal, state and any local
health, county and Planning Commission conditions.
      (8)   Because the campground or campsite facility is intended for camping
as an incidental, recreational use, rather than for private cabins and primary
dwellings, any one-family, two-family or multi-family dwelling shall comply
with the normal width, area, frontage, yard and other requirements applicable
to dwellings within the zone, in addition to the requirements for a zoning lot
for a campground.
      (9)   The design and operation of the facilities are consistent with the
intent of the zone and will not significantly decrease the quality of the
environment of the surrounding area through the imposition of large volumes of
traffic or produce levels of odor, noise, glare, light or similar conditions
which are incompatible with the character of the area.
      (10)   Use of the campground shall not include the storage of vacant
recreational vehicles after the occupants have returned home, nor the long-term
use of campsites (over 90 days per calendar year).
   (C)   Bond. The Planning Commission may require a performance bond to be
posted with the Community Development Director, in the amount recommended by
the County Engineer or other reliable source chosen by the Board, as a
condition of approval, sufficient to guarantee that the required access,
garbage, water and sewage facilities will be provided.
   (D)   Zoning compliance permit. After construction but before occupancy and
use of the campground and campsite facilities, the owner shall qualify for and
obtain a zoning compliance permit from the Community Development Director.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-25)
§ 155.334 RECREATION VEHICLE COURTS AND COMMERCIAL CAMPGROUNDS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent and purpose of this section is to
protect the safety and convenience of the users of recreation vehicle courts
and commercial campgrounds, to reduce congestion in and around the court or
campground facilities and to protect the safety and welfare of those occupying
surrounding properties.
   (B)   Approval authority. The Planning Commission, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, may approve a conditional use permit for a
recreation vehicle court or commercial campground, provided the provisions
stated in this section are met.
   (C)   Plans required. The applicant for a permit for a recreation vehicle
court or commercial campground shall submit a drawn to scale site and
construction plan containing the information called for in this division (C).
The plan shall be at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet or larger, and shall
include:
      (1)   The proposed layout of roads, recreation vehicle parking spaces (or
campsites), automobile parking spaces, service buildings and management office;
      (2)   The location and size of existing and proposed water, sewer and
electric power lines and facilities;
      (3)   The drainage features and slope of the land;
      (4)   A schematic drawing of a typical recreation vehicle parking pad (or
campsite) with the appurtenant automobile parking spot and landscaped yard
space; and
      (5)   A planting plan showing the areas to be landscaped, types of plants
to be used, types of landscaping structures to be used and a legend showing
the:
         (a)   Scale;
         (b)   Total number of acres in the development;
         (c)   Total number of recreation vehicle spaces (or campsites);
         (d)   Average number of recreation vehicle spaces (or campsites) per
acre;
         (e)   Total number of off-street automobile parking spaces;
         (f)   Percentage of the total area to be hard-surfaced;
         (g)   Percentage of the total area to be in open space, exclusive of
hard-surfaced areas and parking sites;
         (h)   Percentage of the total area to be developed as playground,
recreation and other common facilities; and
         (i)   Any other data reasonably required by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Standards and requirements.
      (1)   Recreation vehicle courts and commercial campgrounds shall be
permitted only as specifically listed as permitted or conditionally permitted
in a particular zone.
      (2)   All recreation vehicle courts and commercial campgrounds shall abut
on and gain access from a hard-surfaced public street which meets the standards
of the county for collector or arterial roads, except where the recreation
vehicle court or commercial campground gains access from a central parking lot
which in turn abuts on and gains access from a hard-surfaced public street.
      (3)   All roadways providing access to recreation vehicle spaces (or
campsites) shall have a hard-surfaced width of at least ten feet for one-way
roads and 20 feet for two-way roads, plus two feet of unobstructed shoulder on
each side of the surface. Such roadways shall not exceed a grade of 8%, nor
have a curve where the radius of the centerline is less than 45 feet.
      (4)   The roadway system shall provide convenient circulation through the
recreation vehicle court and shall provide access to each recreation vehicle
space (and campsite). No recreation vehicle space (or campsite) will be
permitted direct access to a public street, road or highway other than by means
of the recreation vehicle court (or campground) roadway system. No entrance or
exit shall be located closer than 100 feet to the right-of-way line of any
intersecting street.
      (5)   Each recreation vehicle space shall be hard-surfaced, ten feet or
more in width, 40 feet or more in length and have adjacent thereto a standard
automobile parking space and at least 800 square feet of landscaped yard space.
      (6)   All recreation vehicles and camping paraphernalia shall be set back
at least 30 feet from any public street, and the setback space resulting
therefrom shall be landscaped, except for permitted driveways.
      (7)   In addition to the recreation vehicles, campsites and a management
office, the development may include nonprofit public recreation buildings which
serve the occupants of the facility.
      (8)   All recreation vehicle courts and commercial campgrounds shall be
served by a water supply and sewage facility that has been approved by the
county’s Health Department as meeting its standards and the standards of §§ V-
3 and II-7 of the Code of Camp, Trailer Court, Hotel, Motel and Resort
Sanitation Regulations, adopted by the state’s Division of Health, or its
successor regulation.
      (9)   Each recreation vehicle space (or campsite) shall be served by a
hookup facility for water, sewage disposal and electrical power.
      (10)   Hydrants and other fire protection facilities, as well as the
design of the development, shall meet the adopted Fire Codes administered by
the County Fire Marshal.
      (11)   No recreation vehicle shall be allowed in the court (nor camp user
in the campground) for more than 45 days in any calendar year. Besides the
approved common facilities shown on the plan, only recreation vehicles and camp
users (plus their automobiles) may occupy the facility; mobile homes,
construction equipment, outdoor storage (other than licensed vehicles) and the
like, are prohibited.
   (E)   Other licenses and permits required. A building permit is required
before any construction is commenced on a recreational vehicle court or
commercial campground, and, upon completion, a zoning compliance permit and
current business license are required before such is operated. Failure of the
owner and/or operator to construct and maintain the court in accordance with
the terms of approval may result in the revocation of the building permit,
zoning compliance permit and/or the business license.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-26) (Ord. 11-16, passed 12-6-2011) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.335 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purposes of the landscaping requirements of this section
are to enhance, conserve and stabilize property values by preventing wind and
water erosion, creating an environment which discourages the accumulation of
rubbish and litter and providing an attractive neighborhood. Further, where
required, the landscaping is necessary to contribute to the relief of erosion,
heat, noise and glare through the proper placement of trees and other
vegetation. Landscaping plans are required for all development within
Commercial Zones, two-family or multi-family dwelling development projects, for
all institutional uses and all common areas within residential or condominium
projects, in addition to types of development already specified by this
chapter.
   (B)   Approved plan. Where landscaping is required, it shall be placed and
maintained according to the plan approved by the land use authority as a
prerequisite to further use of the lot, and consistent with the timing and
phasing plan approved for the development.
   (C)   Nonconforming status. Landscaping shall be deemed a substantive rather
than a procedural requirement, such that any use of property on the effective
date hereof, which is nonconforming only as to landscaping, may be continued in
the same manner as if the landscaping were conforming.
   (D)   Plot plan. Where landscaping is required, a landscaping plan, drawn to
scale and stamped by a landscape architect, licensed in the state, shall be
submitted as part of the application submittal requirements. The landscaping
plan shall contain at least: The location and common and Latin names of all
trees, shrubs and ground covers; the size in caliper, gallon or height, as
applicable to the particular landscaping type; any nonvegetative landscape
features; and all irrigation facilities.
   (E)   Coverage and screening.
      (1)   The minimum landscape coverage percentage for commercial and
institutional development is 15% of the area of the lot or parcel, excluding
any land dedicated for public right-of-way or required park strips street trees
within the public right-of-way. Required landscape for residential projects
shall be determined during subdivision or development approval.
      (2)   Coverage of the ground in required landscaped areas shall be at
least 85% by plant materials and waterways, when viewed from above, so that
impervious landscaping features such as walkways, rockscapes and statuary do
not impair runoff. Where screening or buffering from surrounding properties is
required to be in the form of landscaping, a minimum six foot tall or taller
row of evergreen trees that are spaced to occlude vision shall constitute
sufficient screening, unless a greater height is required by the land use
authority to mitigate specific impacts of the development.
      (3)   Where landscaping is required in residential projects, at least 70%
of the yard area surrounding the building, for a width at least equal to the
minimum front, side and rear setback distances stated for the zone, shall be
landscaped and maintained in landscaping. The landscaping shall be composed of
irrigated lawn or other fire-resistive green plants. Any portion of the setback
area that is not proposed to be covered by landscaping (the remaining 30% or
less setback area) shall have a covering that is hard-surfaced, graveled or
composed of other suitable material to prevent vegetative growth, and shall be
maintained free of weeds, brush and flammable plants and materials. The plot
plan shall show how these requirements will be met.
   (F)   Maintenance. Required landscaping shall be maintained in a clean,
orderly and healthful condition. Such shall include proper irrigation, pruning,
mowing, weed removal, pest control and replacement of dead plantings.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-27) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 155.336 WATER AND SEWER REQUIRE HEALTH DEPARTMENT APPROVAL.
   No residence, campground, resort, commercial establishment or manned
industrial plant shall be used or occupied, nor a permit issued therefor, until
a potable water supply facility and sanitary sewage disposal facility have been
installed with the approval of the county’s Health Department as meeting county
standards. Further, before a building permit shall be issued, plans showing the
proposed water and sewage facilities shall first be approved by said Health
Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-28)
§ 155.337 POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   Any use shall be prohibited which emits or discharges gases, fumes or other
pollutants into the atmosphere in amounts which exceed the standards as
prescribed by the state’s Air Conservation Board, the state’s Board of Health
or such appropriate body as may be appointed by the County Commission. Any use
shall also be prohibited which emits or discharges liquids or solid material
onto the soil or water in amounts which result in pollutants entering any water
or drainage system in amounts exceeding the standards prescribed by the state’s
Committee on Water Pollution, or its successor agency.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-29)
§ 155.338 DRAINAGE.
   Surface water shall not be allowed to drain onto adjacent lots, except for
natural conditions where the activities of humans have not altered the flow and
percolation of water.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-30)
§ 155.339 EXPOSED SLOPES TO BE LESS THAN CRITICAL ANGLE OF REPOSE.
   No cut or fill shall result in a final slope that exceeds the critical angle
of repose. Where grading work will produce temporary cuts and fills that exceed
the angle of repose, a cash or surety bond in the amount set by resolution to
cover the cost of reclamation, shall be posted by the property owner to
guarantee reclamation and compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
the nuisance provisions of Chapter 90 of this code. A violation of either
provision shall be sufficient grounds for forfeiture of the entire bond to the
county. If the bond is over the minimum amount per acre and the owner disputes
the cost of reclamation set by the County Engineer, the County Commission may
determine the cost and set the bond amount, upon written dispute by the owner.
The bond shall be accompanied by an agreement that states the terms for
rehabilitating the land and refunding of the bond.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-31) (Ord. 11-03, passed 3-1-2011)
§ 155.340 OPEN PIT EXTRACTION OF EARTH PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent and purpose of this section is to
provide for the extraction of earth products using surface mining methods, for
stockpiling mined materials and for the placement of overburden and leftover
earth materials in mining waste dumps, while protecting the environment, the
rights of neighboring property owners and roads and other public facilities
from unusual wear or damage.
   (B)   Applicability; exception.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all sites where sand,
clay, topsoil, rocks or minerals will be extracted by an open pit method; to
all sites where such extracted earth products are stockpiled; and to sites
where overburden and leftover earth materials are placed in waste dumps.
      (2)   Sites having a valid, current permit at the time of passage hereof
shall be completed according to the terms of such permit, and any bonding
agreements appurtenant thereto. After April 1, 2007, the exception applies only
to the portion of the site under permit at that date. Any expansion of pits,
dumps, storage pits or operation areas beyond the existing permit is subject to
all provisions of this section.
   (C)   Conditions. The Community Development Director shall issue a permit
for an open pit, a stockpile or a waste dump only when all of the following are
met, and all operations and rehabilitation shall comply with all of the
following requirements:
      (1)   The site lies in a zone where such use is a permitted use or where
it may be approved as a conditional use permit by the Planning Commission and
has received such approval;
      (2)   The applicant has submitted an accurate site plan that shows the
current topography, utilities, roads and structures on the site and an accurate
site plan that shows the proposed utilities, roads and structures during
operations;
      (3)   The applicant has presented an accurate final post reclamation site
plan that shows the topography, utilities, roads and structures on the site
after completing the excavation and rehabilitation of the pit;
      (4)   Only the portion of the parcel covered by the required
rehabilitation bond may be disturbed or involved in the extraction process;
      (5)   The standards for rehabilitating the site shall be:
         (a)   The side walls of a pit or mound shall be smoothed and evenly
contoured, and the floor of a pit or top of a mound shall be flattened and
leveled;
         (b)   Mounds of fill shall not remain after rehabilitation of an
extraction operation, even if utility poles must be relocated at the operator’s
expense; mounds may only be permitted in conjunction with a mine waste dump;
         (c)   Impoundments, pits and ponds, which are not approved as part of
a postmining land use and reclamation plan, shall be reclaimed, free draining
and the natural drainage patterns restored;
         (d)   No slope shall be steeper than the critical angle of repose
(e.g., 33 degrees for gravel deposits); and
         (e)   All disturbed areas shall be covered with not less than a one-
inch-thick layer of topsoil, reseeded with a hardy plant species, and the hardy
plant species shall be established with sufficient concentration of vegetation
to screen at least 25% of the exposed surface from view. Exception: Disturbed
areas located in the desert areas which naturally lack soil or vegetation shall
be restored to a vegetation and soil surface that corresponds with the adjacent
native conditions.
      (6)   The operator shall place clearly identifiable survey markers on the
outer boundaries of the bonded area and shall maintain such until the bond is
released by the county. The County Commission may request an annual on-site
investigation and report of the County Engineer to determine whether the terms
of the grading plan, rehabilitation plan and bond agreement are being met;
      (7)   Surface mining shall proceed in an orderly manner from the outer
boundaries and lower slopes of the property inward and upward so the property
can be rehabilitated in the older areas of the pit while new areas are being
opened up;
      (8)   (a)   Dust generated in the extraction and processing of the earth
products shall be kept under control by the operator by paving main roads in
the pit, wetting extraction area and loaded trucks, placing berms or landscape
screening for protection from the prevailing winds and other suitable measures.
         (b)   Exception: The paving of the main roads of the pit may be waived
by the Community Development Director if all portions of the pit extraction
area are at least 6,000 feet from any dwelling or cultivated crops, and any
unpaved access road to the pit from the paved road system is at least 500 feet
from any dwelling or cultivated crops. To qualify for this exception, the road
shall have dust control accomplished with a coating of 32% magnesium chloride
treatment at a rate of one ton per 3,300 square feet, which coating shall be
applied twice yearly. Further, water shall be added as needed so that the
fugitive dust shall not exceed 20% opacity. If any of these qualifications are
not met, as determined by tests performed by the Community Development
Director, the County Business License Administrator, or the state’s Division of
Air Quality, or their designees, the pit operator shall cease operations, the
Community Development Director shall revoke the zoning compliance permit and
the business license shall not be renewed until the road is paved.
      (9)   All cuts and fills shall be set back from the property boundary and
from the boundary of the approved extraction site a distance of at least five
feet; and
      (10)   The pit and/or extraction operation shall not constitute a
nuisance according to §§
155.020 through
155.032 of this code. Conditions specified in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(8)
above, shall be deemed satisfied by submission of an approved operation and
reclamation plan for mining operations as specified in the state code.
   (D)   Bond.
      (1)   A cash escrow in the amount as set by resolution, but not less than
$2,500 per acre, in 2007, with an increase of $50 per annum for each year after
2007, shall be deposited with the county by the applicant to guarantee
compliance with the provisions of this section. A violation of this section, or
of the rehabilitation agreement, shall be sufficient grounds for forfeiture of
the deposit to the county. If the deposited funds are over the minimum amount
per acre and the owner disputes the cost of reclamation set by the County
Engineer, the County Commission may determine the cost and set the escrow
amount, upon written dispute by the owner.
      (2)   The maximum term of the bond shall be seven years, after which time
the bond amount shall be reevaluated based on inflation, the current costs of
rehabilitation and the amount of rehabilitation or excavation that has occurred
during the elapsed time.
      (3)   Any bond shall be accompanied by an agreement between the county
and the applicant (plus the property owner if the latter is not also the
applicant) wherein the county agrees to return the bond at the completion of
work if the standards of this section have been met, and the applicant and
property owner agree that the bond shall be forfeited in the event of
noncompliance and to permit the county to enter upon the land to close
operations and rehabilitate the excavated or filled areas. Any ambiguity or
deficiency in the wording of the bond agreement shall be interpreted to include
the terms of this section.
      (4)   Rehabilitation of the site shall be completed on or before the
earliest to occur of the following dates:
         (a)   Six months prior to the date of termination or expiration of the
rehabilitation bond;
         (b)   One year after the date of cessation of operations;
         (c)   One year after the last date that any earth product materials
are extracted from the site;
         (d)   December 31 of any year in which a business license has not been
issued by the county for such operations; and
         (e)   December 31 of any year in which a valid county zoning
compliance permit is not in effect for the operation.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the forfeiture of the bond, the applicant and the
property owner shall retain individual responsibility to fully comply with this
section, the terms of the permits issued thereunder and the balance of any
expense not covered by the bond to rehabilitate the property.
      (6)   The bond requirement under this division (D) may be satisfied by
submission of a properly executed reclamation contract for surety under the
mining operations requirements as found in the state code; provided, however,
that if the proposed operation requires the issuance of a conditional use
permit by the Planning Commission and the Planning Commission imposes a bond
amount which is larger, or contains additional terms than that which is
required by the state, then the applicant and property owner shall enter into a
separate bonding agreement acceptable to the county for the additional bond
amount (or full bond amount if the state bond is not used or does not contain
the required terms), which bonding agreement shall contain all the terms
required by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Permits.
      (1)   In addition to the business licenses and building (or grading)
permits required elsewhere in county ordinances, any open pit operation shall
be required to have a current zoning compliance permit.
      (2)   No zoning compliance permit for an open pit operation shall have a
period of validity past December 31 of each calendar year, but the permit shall
be automatically renewed if the pit is found to be in compliance with the
standards of this section.
      (3)   The Community Development Director, with the advice of the County
Engineer, shall determine if such compliance exists.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-32) (Ord. 11-03, passed 3-1-2011) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.341 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADUS).
   (A)   Purpose. This section is established to provide regulations and design
standards for internal accessory dwelling units, within single-family dwellings
in Residential Zones.
   (B)   Occupancy requirements.
      (1)   Occupancy of the accessory dwelling unit shall meet the
requirements of federal definitions for family; specifically, any number of
blood related family members, or up to five unrelated people.
      (2)   For the purposes of the definition of FAMILY, the term shall mean
spouse, parent, child, stepchild, grandparent, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
nephew, niece, first cousins, great grandparents, great grandchild. This term
does not include other, more distant relationships.
      (3)   The accessory dwelling unit may be rented to a second or separate
family as defined above from the main structure.
   (C)   Internal accessory dwelling units.
      (1)   Approval for an internal accessory dwelling unit may be granted by
the Zoning Administrator, upon submittal of a land use permit application,
which meets the requirements of this chapter. The granting of approval for an
internal accessory dwelling unit shall not exempt the applicant from meeting
other applicable ordinances, covenants, codes or laws recognized by the county.
      (2)   The property owner shall occupy the dwelling, except for bona fide
temporary absences.
      (3)   An internal accessory dwelling unit is not allowed to be attached
to or within a mobile home.
      (4)   The applicant shall record a notice regarding the approval for the
internal accessory dwelling unit with the County Recorder’s office, on a form
approved by the Zoning Administrator, including any required conditions of
approval to guarantee compliance with the approval. The applicant shall provide
to the Zoning Administrator a copy of the recorded document prior to the
commencement of the use of the internal accessory dwelling unit or the issuance
of any required building permit for the conversion.
      (5)   A floor plan of one-fourth inch equals one foot (¼” = 1'), showing
the floor in which the internal accessory dwelling unit will be located within
the existing single-family dwelling shall be provided.
      (6)   Only one internal accessory dwelling unit shall be created within a
single-family dwelling and the apartment shall be a subordinate part of the
dwelling.
      (7)   The owners of the residence shall live in the dwelling in which the
apartment was created, except for bona fide temporary absences.
      (8)   The internal accessory dwelling unit shall be designed so that the
appearance of the building remains that of a single-family dwelling, including
the retention and enhancement of landscaping.
      (9)   It shall be prohibited to install separate utility meters for the
internal accessory dwelling unit.
      (10)   The design and size of the apartment shall conform to all
applicable standards in the Fire, Building and Health Codes. The applicant
shall obtain all necessary building permits prior to construction of the
internal accessory dwelling unit.
      (11)   At least three off-street parking spaces shall be available for
use by the owner/occupants of the dwelling and internal accessory dwelling
unit. All parking shall be upon hard surface (concrete, asphalt, brick, rolled
and compacted road base and the like). Tandem parking spaces are not to be
counted for the purpose of determining parking space conformance.
      (12)   The internal accessory dwelling unit shall be designed so that,
the appearance of the building remains that of a single-family dwelling,
including prohibition of separate utility meters, separate addresses and
mailboxes and the like. Additional entrances, when constructed, shall be
located on the side or in the rear of the building.
      (13)   The design and size of the internal accessory dwelling unit shall
conform to all applicable standards in the Fire, Building and Health Codes. The
applicant shall obtain all necessary building permits prior to construction of
the internal accessory dwelling unit.
   (D)   Detached accessory dwelling units.
      (1)   Detached accessory dwelling units shall be required to go through a
modified land use approval process that shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
         (a)   Site plan submittal requirements for land use approval shall
include the following:
            1.   Engineered or architecturally designed drawings of the
accessory dwelling unit with dimensions of all setbacks, building size,
calculations of total lot coverage, floor plan, and location of required
parking spaces.
            2.   Building elevations with proposed materials and building
height.
            3.   Geohazards report generated in accordance with §
155.220 (Article I Geohazards).
      (2)   Detached accessory dwelling units shall be allowed in the following
situations:
         (a)   On lots that meet setbacks and lot coverage requirements;
         (b)   On lots that are part of a PC-zone district overlay and were
included in the list of allowed uses; or
         (c)   On lots that were given approval within a development agreement.
         (d)   Only one ADU (attached or detached) shall be permitted.
      (3)   The accessory dwelling unit shall comply with all setbacks and
height requirements of the main structure.
      (4)   The area of the ADU and the area of the main structure shall not
exceed the maximum lot coverage allowance.
      (5)   The property owner shall occupy one of the structures.
      (6)   The ADU shall not be used as a short-term rental.
      (7)   The ADU structure shall be designed architecturally to match the
style and design of the main structure including exterior materials, color, and
roof pitch.
      (8)   The minimum size of an ADU shall be 400 square feet. The maximum
size of an ADU shall be 75% of the gross square footage of the primary
structure.
      (9)   Parking shall be provided on the lot for both dwelling units
according to residential parking standards found in §
155.369 Number of Spaces Required. Separate parking slabs shall not be
permitted. Parking for both dwellings should be along the same side of the main
structure, or in the back to minimize the view of vehicles.
      (10)   Both the main dwelling unit and the accessory dwelling will share
the same address. The property shall not receive double addresses. However,
each unit may receive a letter for separation purposes.
      (11)   Neither unit shall be sold separately from the other. While there
may be two units (main and accessory) they shall be sold together as there is
one sellable lot/parcel.
      (12)   Accessory dwelling units - tiny homes. Tiny homes that are
acknowledged by HUD as manufactured homes and constructed to the International
Building Code may be used as an accessory dwelling unit. However, the owner is
required to prove that the tiny home meets these requirements. Otherwise, it
shall be considered a recreation vehicle for the purposes of this code and will
not be allowed to be used for ADU purposes.
         (a)   Those tiny homes that are deemed compatible with the above
requirement shall be permanently attached to a concrete foundation.
         (b)   The tiny home shall be permanently attached to and approved for
all required utilities.
         (c)   Building inspections shall be required for all foundation and
utility connections to ensure correct installation.
         (d)   All manufactured home running gear, tongues, axles, and wheels
must be removed at the time of installation.
         (e)   The dwelling shall comply with division (7) above.
      (13)   Home occupations. The property owner, or occupant of the main
dwelling unit (if the property owner is occupying the ADU) shall be permitted
to run a home occupation according to the standards defined within §
155.323 of the MCC.
      (14)   Violations of this section shall result in enforcement procedures
as required in §
155.999. The following conditions shall constitute a violation:
         (a)   Construction or placement of a tiny/manufactured home on a
property as an accessory dwelling unit without receiving land use approval and
all required permits.
         (b)   Changing materials or design from approved design.
         (c)   Except for any legally conforming structure, any existing
detached accessory dwelling unit that was constructed prior to adoption of this
section shall be considered a violation if the property owner does not apply
within six months to bring the ADU into compliance.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-33) (Ord. 10-17, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 21-09, passed 7-6-
2021; Ord. 23-21, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.342 CONSTRUCTION SUBJECT TO GEOLOGIC OR FLOOD HAZARDS.
   (A)   Report required. Whenever development or construction is or may be
subject to geologic or flood hazard, the Planning Commission and/or County
Engineer may require the applicant to submit a geologic and soils survey report
prepared by a qualified professional team.
   (B)   Special conditions. When such report indicates a lot to be subject to
unusual, potential or actual geologic hazards, the applicant shall meet the
special conditions required by the Planning Commission and/or County Engineer
or other designated party to reduce or eliminate such hazard, or if such
conditions cannot be met or will not be met, the application for a building or
conditional use permit shall be denied.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-34)
§ 155.343 STANDARDS FOR CHURCH AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN ALL ZONES.
   (A)   Parcel size. No minimum parcel size is required, however, the parcel
chosen for a church must be adequate to meet all of the development standards
to be listed in this section, which include, but are not limited to setbacks,
landscaping, parking, improvements and dedications.
   (B)   Building setbacks.
      (1)   Commercial Zone.
         (a)   Front. Thirty feet from property line. (If project fronts on
more than one street, setback applies to all street frontages.)
         (b)   Side and rear. Minimum ten feet , unless located adjacent to a
Residential Zone. In this case, the minimum setback to buildings must be 30
feet.
      (2)   Residential Zone.
         (a)   Front. Thirty feet from front property line. (If project is on a
corner lot, setbacks are 30 feet on one street and 20 feet on the other.)
         (b)   Side and rear. Follow setbacks required according to the zone
the property is in. A greater setback may be needed as may be deemed necessary
by the Planning Commission for larger structures.
   (C)   Building height. Maximum building height shall follow zoning that the
project is in. Thirty-five feet is the maximum in a Residential Zone or in any
zone adjacent to a Residential Zone (not including chimneys, steeples and the
like).
   (D)   Landscaping setbacks.
      (1)   Front. Thirty feet minimum from property line. (If on corner lot in
a Residential Zone, 20 feet on shorter setback side.)
      (2)   Sides and rear. Five feet minimum.
      (3)   Landscaping in the front areas shall also include the following:
         (a)   Landscaping within the five-foot park strip adjacent to the
curb, including grass and street trees (minimum two-inch caliper and spaced 30
feet on center); and
         (b)   All front landscaping shall be bermed with 24-inch to 36-inch-
high random mounding as may be deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Landscaping shall also be required within the parking lot itself
where large expanses of asphalt occur. There shall be one ten-foot-wide planter
within the parking lot area where over 125 linear feet of asphalt occurs.
   (E)   Fencing. As a general rule, fencing shall be constructed of materials
compatible with the principal buildings or architectural character of the
surrounding neighborhood and be in accordance with §
155.345 of this code.
   (F)   Parking.
      (1)   All parking for church facilities shall be on-site. No parking is
allowed on the street.
      (2)   Number of parking spaces required shall be one space for every four
fixed seats, or as may be needed for the type of facility planned.
      (3)   Size of parking spaces is to be nine feet wide by 20 feet long.
Driveways between parking spaces shall be a minimum of 24 feet wide.
      (4)   No parking is permitted within the front landscape setback.
   (G)   Trash enclosures and accessory buildings.
      (1)   All trash bins shall be surrounded with six-foot-high enclosures
(non-chain-link) with opaque gates. Enclosures may be combined with accessory
structures or maintenance buildings. The setback of such structures shall be at
least the same as front landscape setback, but in no case shall trash enclosure
be adjacent to a residential lot line.
      (2)   Maintenance buildings shall be built of the same materials as the
main building (siding and roofing) so as to blend in with the entire project.
Setbacks shall be set forth as those for accessory structures in the particular
zone where the church is being constructed. At no time shall said building be
allowed in a required front setback.
   (H)   Lighting. All lighting for church buildings, parking lots and
accessory uses, if applicable, shall be downlit and not cause any adverse
impact on adjacent residential areas.
   (I)   Auxiliary uses.
      (1)   Auxiliary uses such as parks, ball diamonds, pavilions and the
like, shall not count towards landscaping on the church site, but shall stand
alone and be considered as a separate site and subject to a separate
conditional use approval.
      (2)   Any such auxiliary uses are subject to, but not limited to, the
standards of this section (if applicable).
   (J)   Planning Commission conditions. In addition to those standards cited
above, the Planning Commission, upon review of a conditional use, may impose
additional reasonable conditions which they feel are necessary to protect the
health, safety and general welfare of the surrounding area.
   (K)   Procedure for approval.
      (1)   Church facilities are conditional uses in all zones within the
county and as such require Planning Commission approval.
      (2)   Upon receiving a conditional use approval from the Planning
Commission, all church projects will proceed through the site plan review
process with staff.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-35) (Ord. 12-05, passed 6-5-2012)
§ 155.344 COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS USE PERMITS.
   The county fairgrounds provides a unique site for events which are
considered beneficial to the health, welfare, property values and entertainment
of the citizens of the county. The following standards shall be applied to all
uses of the county fairgrounds.
   (A)   Approval required. All special events, temporary or permanent uses are
considered permitted county fairgrounds uses and shall only require approval
from the County Commission. No public hearings are required to establish a
county fairgrounds use. Approval may take the form of a lease agreement,
approved budget request, special event approval or other mechanism allowed by
law.
   (B)   Temporary uses and special events. Temporary uses and special events
are considered county fairgrounds uses and shall only require approval from the
County Commission. Approved special events and temporary uses should be in
accord with any adopted county policy for fairgrounds’ arenas and facilities.
   (C)   Permanent events, uses and facilities. Permanent events, uses and
facilities are considered county fairgrounds uses and may be approved through
negotiation of a lease agreement with the County Commission, as determined
necessary by the Commission. The adopted county fairground master plan should
be used as a guide by the County Commission during lease and approval
negotiations.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-36) (Ord. 11-10, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 155.345 FENCE, WALL AND SCREENING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FENCE or WALL. Any structure or device used for confinement, prevention
of intrusion, boundary identification or screening of an activity.
      HEIGHT OF WALLS AND FENCES. Fence heights shall be measured from the top
of the fence to the level of the ground on the inside of the fence.
      OPEN STYLE FENCE. A fence that is at least 75% open and which does not
create a visual hazard for pedestrians and drivers.
      SCREENING DEVICE. A specific application of a wall or fence to conceal
areas used for refuse, mechanical equipment, utilities, parking, multi-family
residential developments and commercial and industrial activities from adjacent
Residential Districts or from street views.
      SIGHT-OBSCURING FENCE. An opaque fence providing a complete visual
barrier to persons outside the perimeter of the sight-obscuring fence. A
slatted chain-link fence shall not be considered a SIGHT-OBSCURING FENCE.
   (B)   Provisions constitute minimum requirements. In interpreting and
applying the provisions of this section, the requirements contained in this
section are declared to be the minimum requirements.
   (C)   Fences; residential standards.
      (1)   Side yards and rear yards. In any required side or rear yard on
lots, the height of fences shall not exceed six feet in height.
      (2)   Front yards. Fences in required front yards shall be allowed;
provided, that solid type fences shall not exceed three feet in height, and a
fence 75% open, shall not exceed four feet in height.
      (3)   Corner or double frontage lots. In addition to the other provisions
contained in this section, fences located on corner or double frontage lots
shall be subject to the following provisions.
         (a)   Any fence, wall and/or hedge on the front yard setback shall not
exceed three feet in height if opaque construction, or four feet in height if
open construction as defined in division (C)(2) above.
         (b)   In the side yard setback which fronts on a street, height up to
six feet shall be allowed beyond 40 feet from the intersection measured from
the intersection of extended curb lines. Height within the 40-foot area shall
conform to the requirements of a front yard setback.
         (c)   Heights on the rear yard setback and interior side yard setback
shall not exceed six feet.
      (4)   Lots with slopes. A fence may be built upon a slope greater than
15%; provided, that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Fences shall be located only upon areas constituting usable land
unless otherwise approved by the Planning Department.
         (b)   The fence shall be built in accordance with this subchapter and
comply with all restrictions imposed by setbacks and the like, as defined in
this chapter.
         (c)   All requirements of the sensitive lands regulations shall be met
prior to the construction of the fence.
      (5)   Subdivision perimeter fencing.
         (a)   Where the street is considered a collector roadway where no
driveways have ingress or egress, and where the lots adjacent to this roadway
are double frontage lots, then fences along the collector or rear yard may have
a 6-foot privacy fence at the property line.
         (b)   On corner lots the vision clearance triangle shall still be
required.
         (c)   On corner lots that are affected by the above two divisions (C)
(5)(a) and (b), these lots are also allowed to have the side yard fence be a 6-
foot privacy fence along the property line up to the front yard setback line.
   (D)   Recreational facility fencing. A fence enclosing a recreational
facility (whether public or private), such as a tennis court, sports court,
swimming pool and the like, may be allowed up to ten feet, as long as it is not
sight-obscuring, is located at least five feet from the property line, and is
not within the minimum front yard setback area. A fence which is greater than
ten feet in height and/or closer than five feet to a property line may be
permitted with a conditional use permit. All fences in excess of six feet in
height require a building permit before construction.
   (E)   Fences in commercial, industrial, institutional and multiple-family
developments. For all commercial, industrial, institutional and multiple-family
developments, the following shall apply to any lot or parcel:
      (1)   A wall or fence shall be a maximum of six feet in height, with the
exception that any wall or solid fence located within 20 feet of a public
street shall be a maximum of three feet in height, and any fence 75% or more
open, located within 20 feet of a public street, shall be a minimum of four
feet in height;
      (2)   Any outdoor storage area shall be screened from view by a minimum
six-foot-high wall or a solid barrier, sight-obscuring fence constructed of or
finished with materials to match or complement the main building material on-
site;
      (3)   A solid, sight-obscuring fence or wall of masonry, wood, vinyl or
similar material shall be constructed along property lines which adjoin an area
which is primarily residential. Such wall or fence shall be a minimum of six
feet in height, except that the first 20 feet from the street property line
shall be stepped down to three feet in height. The fence or wall shall be
constructed of materials compatible with the principal buildings or
architectural character of the surrounding neighborhood; and
      (4)   Transformers, substations, transmission, pump and/or related
generator facilities shall be fenced or screened with a sight-obscuring fence
or wall constructed of materials compatible with the principal buildings or
architectural character of the surrounding neighborhood if located within a
commercial or residential area or if located in an industrial, agricultural or
open space area fenced for security purposes with a minimum of an open style
fence. All such fences or walls shall be a minimum of six feet in height.
   (F)   Vacant lots.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, it shall be presumed that a vacant
lot shall contain a minimum front, side and rear yard that are otherwise
required by ordinance.
      (2)   In any required side and rear yard on vacant lots, the maximum
height of fences or other similar structures shall be six feet.
   (G)   Retaining walls. Where a retaining wall protects a cut below or a fill
above the natural grade and is located on the line separating lots or
properties, such retaining wall may be topped by a fence, wall or hedge of the
same height that would otherwise be permitted at the location if no retaining
wall existed.
   (H)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to certain
other fences such as tennis court backstops or patio enclosures in the front,
side or rear yards, if approved by the Planning Commission, if in its opinion
they do not create a hazard or violation of other ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-37) (Ord. 12-05, passed 6-5-2012; Ord. 24-17, passed 8-6-
2024)
§ 155.346 REMOVAL OF DIRT AND DEBRIS.
   When constructing or installing any subdivision or site development
improvements, buildings or structure, the developer and contractors shall be
required to keep all paved streets, sidewalks and gutters free from any debris,
trash, mud or dirt from the project or construction site.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-38) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 155.347 CHILD DAYCARE CENTERS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of this section, and any rules,
regulations, standards and specifications hereafter adopted pursuant hereto or
in conjunction herewith are:
      (1)   To protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public,
neighborhoods and patrons by providing procedures and standards for the review
of child daycare centers; and
      (2)   To provide a process of approval for child daycare centers that
give the county general oversight and assurance of the adherence of all local,
state and federal laws at the initiation of such use.
   (B)   Permitted uses. When a child daycare center is proposed in a zone
where it is listed as a permitted use, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Application requirements. A land use permit application shall be
submitted to the Planning and Development Services Department for review. The
application shall be submitted with the following requirements:
         (a)   A site plan showing the proposed/existing building, lot
boundaries, parking, loading and unloading areas, outdoor play areas and access
to a public street or dedicated private street;
         (b)   The application shall identify other uses of the lot, including
uses of all main buildings, accessory buildings and yard area; and
         (c)   The application shall be accompanied with a letter from the
local fire official indicating that the building complies with all relevant
local, state and federal Fire Codes.
      (2)   Parking. Proposed or existing parking shall be delineated on the
site plan sufficient to satisfy the requirements of §
155.369 of this code. All proposed parking shall be installed prior to the
commencement of business.
      (3)   Loading and unloading. Loading and unloading of children from
vehicles shall only be permitted on the property in an approved parking area.
      (4)   Outdoor play areas. Outdoor play areas of a daycare center shall be
enclosed with a fence which shall be built and maintained with a minimum height
of four feet. A six-foot-high solid fence shall be built and maintained along
play areas that are adjacent to property in a residential zoning district.
Fencing shall comply with §
155.345 of this code.
      (5)   Signs. All proposed signage shall comply with the process and
regulations of §
155.368 of this code.
      (6)   State license required. An establishment to be used for child
daycare activities shall be licensed or registered by the state’s Department of
Health and shall provide documentation of such with the application. Such
establishment shall meet all minimum standards promulgated by the Department of
Health.
      (7)   Process. The Zoning Administrator shall review the land use permit
for compliance with the standards listed in this section and elsewhere in this
chapter. The application shall be routed to the Building Official who shall
ensure that the building housing the childcare center complies with relevant
local, state and federal Building Codes. Upon finding that it meets all
applicable requirements, the Zoning Administrator shall approve the land use
permit, or approve it with conditions relevant to the mitigation of harmful
impact of the use. Applications that do not demonstrate compliance with
applicable requirements, or uses which harmful impact cannot be mitigated,
shall be denied by the Zoning Administrator. All final decisions shall be
issued to the applicant in writing. For child daycare centers proposed in new
commercial development, the new development shall first be reviewed and
approved in compliance with processes and standards of §§
155.045 through
155.048 of this code, and other applicable regulations.
   (C)   Conditional uses. When a child daycare center is proposed in a zone
where it is listed as a conditional use, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Application requirements. A conditional use permit application
shall be submitted to the Planning and Development Services Department for
review in compliance with §
155.366 of this code. A site plan shall be submitted with the application
showing the proposed/existing building, lot boundaries, parking, loading and
unloading areas, outdoor play areas and access to a public street or dedicated
private street. The application shall also identify other uses of the lot,
including uses of all main buildings, accessory buildings and yard area.
      (2)   Standards. All standards required of a permitted use permit as
listed in division (B) above shall be applied to conditional use permits for
child daycare centers, as well as those requirements listed in §§
155.323 and
155.366 of this code.
      (3)   Process. The permitting process for a conditional use permit for a
child daycare center shall comply with the conditional use permitting process
of §
155.366 of this code. The conditional use permit shall first be reviewed by the
Zoning Administrator and Building Official for compliance with applicable
regulations, who shall forward a staff recommendation for the conditional use
permit to the Planning Commission. For child daycare centers proposed in new
commercial development, the new development shall first be reviewed and
approved in compliance with processes and standards of §§
155.045 through
155.048 of this code and other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-39) (Ord. 12-01, passed 3-6-2012)
§ 155.348 COMMERCIAL RECREATION USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to accommodate certain
commercial activities which are recreational in nature and are permitted or
conditional permitted in any zone. This section sets forth procedures for
considering and approving a commercial recreation use permit. The character of
such recreational activities may require proper conditions to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public in general. The provisions of this
section shall only apply to the commercial recreation uses permitted or
conditionally permitted in the zone where the recreational activity shall
occur. Commercial recreation uses not specifically identified in the applicable
zoning use tables are not allowed. The requirements of this section shall not
be construed to prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of this chapter,
this code and other laws. This subchapter shall not apply to recreational
activities lawfully conducted by a government agency.
   (B)   Approval authority. The Zoning Administrator shall be the approval
authority for commercial recreation use permits, listed as a “P1” in the use
table, as provided in this section. The Planning Commission shall be the
approval authority for commercial recreation use permits, listed as a “P2” in
the use table, as provided in this section. The County Commission shall be the
approval authority for commercial recreation use permits, listed as a “P3” in
the use table, as provided in this section.
   (C)   Initiation. Any person may apply for a commercial recreation use
permit as provided in this section, subject to compliance with the provisions
of this section and this chapter.
   (D)   Commercial recreation use permit required. Unless exempt under the
provisions of this section, no person shall conduct any commercial recreation
use without obtaining a commercial recreation use permit by submitting a
complete application, including payment of all fees and issued pursuant to the
requirements of this section and this chapter.
      (1)   Exemptions.
         (a)   All private recreation and/or activities conducted on private
property and established for the private enjoyment of the owner shall be exempt
from the provisions of this section.
         (b)   Recreation uses, activities and/or events which are temporary in
nature and are conducted as part of approved county fairgrounds uses, or
require rental or reservation of a county park or other permissible county
facilities or are within a structure or on a site for which the structure or
site were specifically designed, including, but not limited to:
            1.   School sports, Little League or community organized sports,
activities or events, on school or other public property, regardless of public
or private schools, sponsored or sanctioned by the state’s High School
Activities Association (UHSAA) or the school district in which the school is
located; and
            2.   On-site school programs or activities for the attendance of
students, relatives and guests which are not of a money-raising nature.
         (c)   Recreational uses, activities and/or events which are
administered through §§
93.20 through
93.26 of this code by the County Sheriff’s office.
         (d)   For recreational uses, activities and/or events covered by a
conditional use or temporary use permit, a commercial recreation use permit
shall be incorporated within such conditional use or temporary use permit and
need not be a separate application, provided the requirements of this
subchapter are met.
      (2)   Uses allowed. Any person may sponsor or conduct for profit purposes
the recreational uses set forth in the applicable use table for the zone for
which the recreational use will take place subject to the issuance of a
commercial recreation use permit, unless under express provisions of this
section no such permit is required.
   (E)   General criteria. Commercial recreation uses or activities shall fully
comply with all of the following general criteria:
      (1)   The recreational use or activity is completely contained on private
property or in conjunction with public property for which the property owner or
governing agency has given permission for the recreational use or activity;
      (2)   No excavation, improvements or modifications such as cutting,
clearing, grading and other earthmoving operations that may threaten the
surrounding soil, slope, vegetation and the existing natural drainage of the
site or a part of it, shall take place without first obtaining the appropriate
permits from the applicable federal, state and local government agencies;
      (3)   No public services such as police, fire or ambulance, are
anticipated to be needed on-site for the recreational use or activity, whether
for traffic control, on standby or for security at the site;
      (4)   The recreational uses or activity are considered to have little or
no impact on public health, safety and general welfare; and
      (5)   Traffic, crowd or parking control is not needed to accommodate the
recreational use or activity.
   (F)   Review procedure. An application for a commercial recreation use
permit shall be considered and processed as provided in this division (F).
      (1)   A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the
Zoning Administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any
fee established by the county’s adopted fee schedule. The application shall
include at least the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant’s agent, if any;
         (b)   The requested commercial recreational use and/or activity; and
         (c)   A sketch plan and/or a narrative identifying the measures to be
taken to reasonably protect the health, safety and welfare of the public in
general, including sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the recreational use
will meet the general and specific requirements of this section and this
chapter.
      (2)   After the application is determined to be complete, the Zoning
Administrator may solicit recommendations, if deemed necessary, from the
applicable county review agencies. Thereafter, the approval authority shall
approve, approve with conditions or deny the application pursuant to the
standards set forth in this section and this chapter. Any conditions of
approval shall be limited to conditions needed to conform the commercial
recreation use permit to approval standards.
      (3)   After making a decision, the Zoning Administrator shall give the
applicant written notice of the decision.
      (4)   A record of all commercial recreation use permits shall be
maintained in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
   (G)   Approval standards. The following standards shall apply to the
issuance of a commercial recreation use permit:
      (1)   A commercial recreation use shall conform to:
         (a)   The general criteria set forth in this section; and
         (b)   Any recommendations received from the applicable county review
agencies.
      (2)   No commercial recreation use permit shall be issued unless the
approval authority finds the proposed commercial recreation use:
         (a)   Will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or
working within the vicinity, or injurious to property, improvements or the
public in general;
         (b)   Will not substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement
of public transportation or other vehicular and pedestrian traffic in the area;
         (c)   Will not conflict with nor be incompatible with the permitted
uses and regulations of the zone within which the commercial recreation use is
located; and
         (d)   Is in compliance with regulations, conditions and licensing
requirements of applicable provisions of this code.
   (H)   Effect of approval. Approval of a commercial recreation use permit
shall authorize an applicant to engage in the commercial recreation use subject
to any conditions of approval.
   (I)   Amendments. The procedure for amending any commercial recreation use
permit shall be the same as the original procedure set forth in this section.
   (J)   Revocation. 
      (1)   A commercial recreation use permit may be revoked when the approval
authority, or their designee, determines that actions taken hereunder do not
conform to plans, specifications or conditions of the permit; that the same was
procured by false representation or was issued by mistake; or that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated.
      (2)   Written notice of such revocation shall be served upon the property
owner, company and/or his or her agent; and, thereafter, no such activity shall
proceed.
   (K)   Expiration. A commercial recreation use permit shall remain in effect
and shall be renewed annually as part of any required business license and as
regulated by Chapter 110 of this code by the County Clerk’s office. In the
event the business license is not renewed in conformance with the provisions of
this code, the commercial recreation permit shall become void and the applicant
shall formally apply for and receive approval for a new commercial recreation
use permit prior to commencing any commercial activities. If it has been deemed
that a business license is not required for such commercial recreation use
permit, the approved permit shall remain in effect, unless specific conditions
regarding time limitations are placed on the permit which are necessary to
mitigate potential detrimental effects.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-40) (Ord. 15-02, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 155.349 PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS AND AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Rights and responsibilities. A property owner:
      (1)   May execute a parcel boundary adjustment by quitclaim deed or by a
boundary line agreement as described in division (C) below; and
      (2)   Shall record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the
office of the County Recorder.
   (B)   Land use authority. A parcel boundary adjustment is not subject to the
review of a land use authority.
   (C)   Boundary line agreements.
      (1)   If properly executed and acknowledged as required under this
subchapter, an agreement between property owners designating the boundary line
between their properties, when recorded in the office of the County Recorder in
which the property is located, shall act as a quitclaim deed and convey all of
each party’s right, title, interest and estate in property outside the agreed
boundary line that had been the subject of the boundary dispute that led to the
boundary line agreement.
      (2)   A boundary line agreement shall include:
         (a)   Legal description of the agreed upon boundary line;
         (b)   The signature of each grantor;
         (c)   A sufficient acknowledgment for each grantor’s signature; and
         (d)   The address of each grantee for assessment purposes.
      (3)   A property owner:
         (a)   May execute a boundary line agreement; and
         (b)   Shall record a boundary line agreement in the office of the
County Recorder.
      (4)   A boundary line agreement is not subject to the review of a land
use authority.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-41) (Ord. 17-25, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 155.350 SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTALS.
   (A)   Purpose. The use of residential properties for short-term vacation
rental within the county to provide a safe, clean and welcoming accommodation
for visitors.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTALS (SHORT-TERM RENTAL). A residential unit, or
any portion of a residential unit, that the owner of record or the lessee of
the residential unit offers for occupancy for fewer than 30 consecutive days.
   (C)   License and permit. All short-term rentals shall be licensed and
permitted before being offered for rent.
      (1)   License. A business license shall be obtained from the county for
any short-term rental.
      (2)   Short-term rental permit. A short-term rental permit shall be
obtained from the county.
   (D)   License issuance. The business license for rental of units under this
section will be issued by the county upon payment of necessary fees and upon a
finding by the staff that the review criteria established below has been
satisfied.
   (E)   Licensee. The licensee for rentals under this section shall be the
property owner or lessee. A local representative shall be designated as an
emergency and a nuisance complaint contact.
   (F)   Application procedure. All new and renewal applications must contain
the following information:
      (1)   Property owner/lessee name, address, phone;
      (2)   A sales tax collection and accounting number;
      (3)   Street address of each unit;
      (4)   Local representative name, address and telephone number to be
available 24 hours per day; and
      (5)   All other information requested on the application forms. The
application shall include a cover form, which contains information common to
all units managed, and unit forms, which contain information on each unit
managed. It is the licensee’s duty to supplement both forms as information
changes or as units change from one manager to another.
   (G)   Management standards. The short-term vacation rental authorized under
this section be properly managed.
      (1)   Property management. As a condition to holding a valid license, the
licensee agrees to provide or arrange for adequate property management
services.
      (2)   Minimum services. The owner/lessee shall be responsible for the
minimum services and management including:
         (a)   Snow removal during winter months to a level that allows safe
access to the building over the normal pedestrian access to the unit;
         (b)   Snow removal service to off-street parking facilities associated
with the rental property so that off-street parking is at all times available
for occupant use;
         (c)   Summer yard maintenance, including landscaping, weed control and
irrigation to a level that is consistent with the level of landscaping and
maintenance on adjoining and nearby properties;
         (d)   Structural maintenance to preserve substantial code compliance
as described above is required;
         (e)   Routine upkeep, including painting and repair to a level that is
consistent with the level of maintenance on adjoining or nearby properties;
         (f)   Trash collection which ensures that trash cans are not left at
the curb for any period in excess of 24 hours and the property must be kept
free from accumulated garbage and refuse; and
         (g)   Short-term rentals may be offered on a “short-term rental
website” to one or more prospective renters; and facilitates the renting of,
and payment for, a short-term rental in accordance with UCA §§ 10-8-85.4 and
17-50-338.
      (3)   Parking. On-street parking for short-term vacation rental uses
shall not result in an obstruction to traffic and pedestrian circulation or
public safety.
      (4)   Outdoor displays of goods and merchandise. No outdoor display of
goods and merchandise shall be permitted as part of any nightly rental use.
      (5)   Signs. No signs advertising or pertaining to the short-term
vacation rental will be permitted for nightly rental uses.
      (6)   Commercial uses prohibited. Short-term vacation rentals may not be
used for commercial uses not otherwise permitted in the zone. Short-term
rentals may not be converted to corporate sponsor or business houses which are
used primarily to distribute retail products or personal services to invitees
for marketing or similar purposes, regardless of whether such products or
services are charged for.
      (7)   Noise and occupancy control. The owner of rentals under this
section is responsible for regulating the occupancy of the unit and noise
created by the occupants of the unit.
         (a)   Failure to use designated off-street parking, illegal conduct or
any other abuse, which violates any law regarding use or occupancy of the
premises is grounds for revocation of the short-term vacation rental license
and permit.
         (b)   Failure to collect and deposit sales and transit room tax is
also a violation of the license and grounds for revocation of the short-term
vacation rental license and permit.
      (8)   Review criteria. In determining whether or not a business license
for short-term vacation rental authorized under this section shall be issued,
the application shall be reviewed to see if, in addition to standards and
conditions applicable to issuance of all business licenses, the following
conditions and standards are met:
         (a)   The unit is located within a zone and subzone designated as
allowing rentals for the period, which the license is applied for;
         (b)   The county’s Planning and Zoning Department has reviewed the
business license application for compliance with the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings Code. Inspection of the unit may be required under §
90.02 of this code;
         (c)   The applicant shall bear the cost of any such inspection and any
reinspection, which may be required. The cost shall be determined by the
prevailing hourly rate of the county’s Planning and Zoning Department;
         (d)   The access to the rental unit and the layout of the unit is such
that noise and physical trespass from the proposed rental unit is not likely to
be a substantial intrusion to the adjoining properties. If the proposed rental
unit is a single-family home or duplex and shares an access, hallway, common
wall or driveway with another dwelling, written consent of the owner of the
other dwelling is required;
         (e)   The applicant must designate a local contact. The local contact
must be one of the following:
            1.   A property management company, realtor, lawyer, owner or other
individual who resides within the county, or, in the case of a company, has
offices in the county;
            2.   A person personally liable for the failure to properly manage
the rental;
            3.   The local contact must be available by telephone, or
otherwise, 24 hours per day, and must be able to respond to telephone inquiries
within 20 minutes of receipt of such inquiries by that party’s answering
machine, paging device or answering service; or
            4.   The local contact is also designated as the agent for
receiving all official communications under this chapter from the county.
         (f)   The application must bear a sales tax collection and accounting
number for the rental operation. This number may be the sales tax accounting
number used by the property management company responsible for that unit, or
may be specific to the unit, but no license will be effective until the state
sales tax number is provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-42) (Ord. 17-23, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 155.351 TRANSPORTATION CORRIDOR PRESERVATION POWERS.
   In order to preserve transportation corridors for the future roadways, the
County Commission may:
   (A)   Act in cooperation with other counties and municipalities and other
government entities to promote planning for and enhance the preservation of
transportation corridors;
   (B)   Undertake transportation corridor planning, review and preservation
processes;
   (C)   Acquire fee simple rights and other rights of less than fee simple,
including easement and development rights, or the rights to limit development,
including rights in alternative transportation corridors, and to make these
acquisitions up to a projected 30 years in advance of using those rights in
actual transportation facility construction;
   (D)   Preserve a transportation corridor by land use regulation and by
official maps;
   (E)   By ordinance prescribe procedures for approving limited development in
transportation corridors until the time transportation facility construction
begins; and
   (F)   The Commission may identify and approve transportation corridors as
high priority transportation corridors for transportation corridor
preservation.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-43) (Ord. 17-22, passed 4-4-2017)
§ 155.352 OUTDOOR LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to
promote the community character of the county, as provided for in the county’s
General Plan, by providing regulations for the preservation of a dark sky. This
section is also intended to promote the health, safety and general welfare of
the county residents and visitors by:
      (1)   Reducing, eliminating or preventing light trespass;
      (2)   Reducing, eliminating or preventing unnecessary or inappropriate
outdoor lighting;
      (3)   Reducing, eliminating or preventing the effects of outdoor lighting
on wildlife;
      (4)   Preventing unsightly and unsafe glare;
      (5)   Promoting energy conservation;
      (6)   Maintaining nighttime safety, utility and security;
      (7)   Encouraging a minimal light footprint of land uses in order to
reduce light pollution; and
      (8)   Promoting and supporting agrotourism and recreation, including the
pursuit or retention of accreditation of local parks by the International Dark-
Sky Association.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44A)
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   New outdoor lighting. Except as provided in division (B)(3) below,
all outdoor lighting installed after adoption of this section shall conform to
the requirements established by this section.
      (2)   Existing outdoor lighting. Except as provided in division (B)(3)
below, all existing outdoor lighting that does not meet the requirements of
this section and is not exempted by this section shall be considered a
nonconforming use and as such shall be phased out as outlined in division (G)
below.
      (3)   Lighting for residential use. Except as may be provided in division
(G) below, the lighting standards of this section are not mandatory for a
single-family, two-family or three-family dwelling in existence before January
1, 2020.
      (4)   Conflict. Should this section be found to be in conflict with other
sections of this code, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44B)
   (C)   General standards.
      (1)   Light shielding and direction. Unless specifically exempted in
division (E) below, all outdoor lighting shall be fully shielded and downward
directed in compliance with the following, examples of which are graphically
depicted in divisions (I) through (O) below:
         (a)   No artificial light source shall project direct artificial light
into the nighttime sky;
         (b)   No artificial light source shall be placed at a location, angle
or height that creates a light trespass, as graphically depicted in division
(K) below;
         (c)   The shielding shall be made of a completely opaque material such
that light escapes only through the bottom. Shielding that is translucent,
transparent, has perforations or slits of any kind, or allows light to escape
through it in any other manner is not permitted; and
         (d)   Shielding may be attained by light fixture design, building
design or other site design features such as fencing, walls, landscaping or
other screening, provided it is in strict compliance with divisions (C)(1)(a)
through (C)(1)(c) above.
      (2)   Light color. Unless otherwise specified in this section, the color
of any outdoor lighting artificial light source shall be equal to or less than
3,000K, in accordance with the standard Kelvin temperature chart, as
graphically depicted in division (L) below.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44C)
   (D)   Specific standards. In addition to the general standards of division
(C) above. The following are specific standards that apply to all commercial,
industrial, manufacturing, public and quasi-public, institutional, multi-
family, recreation and resort uses:
      (1)   Light curfew. Unless exempt in division (E) below, and except for
residential uses, all outdoor lighting shall be turned off by 10:00 p.m., or,
if applicable, within one hour after the close of business, whichever is later,
except the following:
         (a)   Lighting to illuminate the entrance of the building;
         (b)   Safety lighting of parking lots and pedestrian areas; and
         (c)   Lighting necessary for after-hours business.
      (2)   Flashing or flickering light. No flickering or flashing lights
shall be permitted.
      (3)   Canopy lighting. All direct artificial light sources shall be
sufficiently recessed so as not to project direct light greater than five feet
from the outside perimeter of the canopy and shall not produce more than a
ratio of eight lumens per square foot of canopy area. This ratio shall be
calculated by combining the total lumen output of each artificial light source
and dividing by the square footage of the canopy. See division (M) below for a
graphic depiction.
      (4)   Parking lot lighting. All artificial light sources in open-air
parking lots shall not exceed a ratio of two lumens per square foot of parking
lot area. This ratio shall be calculated by combining the total lumen output of
each artificial light source divided by the square footage of the parking lot
area. See division (N) below for a graphic depiction.
      (5)   Recreation facility lighting. Recreation facility lighting, shall
comply with the following.
         (a)   The lighting for the recreation activity area shall be directed
onto the area where the recreation activities are occurring. It shall not be
allowed to illuminate surfaces that are not essential to the function of the
recreation activity.
         (b)   The lighting shall not exceed a ratio of ten lumens per square
foot of recreation activity area. This ratio shall be calculated by combining
the total lumen output of each artificial light source divided by the square
footage of the recreation activity area. See division (O) below for a graphic
depiction.
         (c)   The recreation activity area shall be lit only when it is in
use.
         (d)   The light color standard of division (C)(2) above does not apply
to lighting for the recreation activity area.
      (6)   Sign lighting. Sign lighting shall comply with the requirements of
§
155.368 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44D)
   (E)   Exemptions. The following artificial light sources are exempt from the
requirements of this section.
      (1)   Agricultural lighting. Lighting for agricultural uses.
      (2)   Federal and state flag lighting. The outdoor lighting of a United
States or official state flag provided it is in compliance with the following:
         (a)   The light shall be as narrow a beam as possible and aimed and
shielded to illuminate, to the best effort practicable, only the area which the
flag occupies in all wind conditions; and
         (b)   The light level shall be minimized to create the least amount of
impact on the dark sky, while still offering noticeable illumination of the
flag;
      (3)   Federal and state facilities lighting. Federal and state facilities
are exempt from the requirements of this section. However, they are encouraged
to cooperate and to coordinate with the county the construction of their
facilities in compliance with this section.
      (4)   Fossil fuel lighting. Fossil fuel light, produced directly by the
combustion of natural gas or other utility type fossil fuels.
      (5)   Holiday or festive lighting.
         (a)   For residential uses, holiday or festive outdoor lighting shall
not create a hazard or glare nuisance; and
         (b)   For commercial uses, holiday or festive outdoor lighting shall
be limited to a luminaire used for a holiday decoration, provided it is used
for no more than 60 days in a 12-month period and is off between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and sunrise.
      (6)   Low output light source. An artificial light source having an
output equal to or less than 105 lumens, provided that the cumulative lumen
output of all low output light sources shall not exceed a ratio of one and one-
half lumens per square foot of cumulative area intended to be illuminated. This
ratio shall be calculated by combining the total lumen output of each low
output light source divided by the square footage of the area intended to be
illuminated. The low output light sources shall be distributed across the area
intended to be illuminated and not organized in a focused location.
      (7)   Mobile lighting. Lighting affixed to a vehicle, provided the
lighting is not intended for the stationary illumination of an area.
      (8)   Motion sensor controlled light source. An artificial light source
that has a light output equal to or less than 900 lumens and is controlled by a
motion sensor, provided it is in compliance with the following:
         (a)   That the motion sensor is set to turn the artificial light
source off ten minutes after the last detection of motion; and
         (b)   That the artificial light source is sufficiently shielded in a
manner that prevents glare on adjacent properties or roadways.
      (9)   Safety or security lighting.
         (a)   For the sole purpose of mitigating legitimate and verifiable
safety or security hazards, the land use authority may exempt an artificial
light source if it is shown to be necessary. The land use authority may apply
reasonable conditions to ensure optimal compliance with the purpose and intent
of this section.
         (b)   Evidence demonstrating that it is necessary shall be one or both
of the following:
            1.   Submitted proof of lighting requirements from a property
insurance company that demonstrates that compliance with this section will
render the property uninsurable. The minimum amount of lighting required by the
property insurance company shall be considered the maximum for the purposes of
this section; and/or
            3.   Submitted reasonable research findings, from a qualified
professional, that offer a compelling argument for the need for the exemption.
However, if the land use authority is aware of other research findings that
refute what is submitted, then the land use authority must determine which
research findings are more persuasive under the circumstances. If the land use
authority grants the exemption, then the minimum amount of lighting necessary
to ensure appropriate safety or security, as recommended by the qualified
professional, shall be considered the maximum for the purposes of this section.
      (10)   Occasional event lighting. Outdoor lighting intended for an
occasional event, such as a wedding, party, social gathering or other similar
event that occurs on an occasional basis shall be allowed. Occasional events
shall not occur more than twice per month.
      (11)   Underwater lighting. Underwater lighting in a swimming pool or
other water feature provided it is not intended to illuminate features above
water.
      (12)   Temporary public agency lighting. Temporary outdoor lighting in
use by law enforcement or a government agency or at their direction.
      (13)   Tower lighting. Tower lighting required by the FAA or the FCC,
provided that it shall not exceed the minimum requirements of those agencies.
Collision markers shall have a dual mode for day and night to minimize impact
to the night sky and migrating birds.
      (14)   Traffic control devices. Traffic control devices and signals.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44E)
   (F)   Procedures for compliance.
      (1)   Applications. Any application for a permit or approval required by
this Land Use Code shall contain evidence that the proposed work complies with
this section.
      (2)   Contents of application or submittal.
         (a)   In addition to the specific application requirements elsewhere
in this Land Use Code, the application submittal shall contain the following:
            1.   Plans indicating the location of all artificial light sources
on the premises, including their height above the ground; and
            2.   Description of each artificial light source device and
supporting structure. This description may include, but is not limited to,
device specifications from the manufacturer, drawings, details and cross-
sections, when available.
         (b)   The required plans and descriptions set forth in division (F)(2)
(a) above shall be complete and shall be presented in a manner that clearly
demonstrates compliance with this section. The land use authority may require
the applicant to submit photometric schematics and attestation from a qualified
professional that the submittal complies with this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44F)
   (G)   Required replacement of nonconforming outdoor lighting. After the
effect of this section, all outdoor lighting that does not comply with the
requirements of this section shall be considered nonconforming outdoor
lighting. All nonconforming outdoor lighting shall be phased out as lighting
fixtures are replaced in accordance with the following criteria.
      (1)   Lighting replacement. The replacement of any nonconforming outdoor
artificial light source shall comply with the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Building exterior modification. When the replacement of a
building’s exterior materials exceeds 25% of the building’s exterior area,
excluding roof area, whether by a single modification project or by an
accumulation of separate modification projects, all nonconforming outdoor
lighting on the premises on or within 25 feet of the building shall be brought
into compliance with the requirements of this section. This shall not include
repainting or re-roofing.
      (3)   Building expansion. When a building’s expansion exceeds the
threshold established in this division (G)(3), whether by a single expansion
project or by an accumulation of separate expansion projects, all nonconforming
outdoor lighting on the premises on or within 25 feet of the building shall be
brought into compliance with the requirements of this section. The established
threshold of expansion shall be the smaller of the following:
         (a)   Twenty-five percent of the total area of the building as it
exists on January 1, 2020; or
         (b)   Two thousand five hundred square feet.
      (4)   Site improvements. When a site improvement, which requires a land
use permit, conditional use permit or design review approval, modifies an area
that exceeds the threshold established in this section, whether by a single
modification project or by an accumulation of separate modification projects,
all nonconforming outdoor lighting on the premises shall be brought into
compliance with the requirements of this section. The established threshold of
modification shall be the smaller of the following:
         (a)   Twenty-five percent of the site area; or
         (b)   Twenty thousand square feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44G)
   (H)   Violations, enforcement and implementation.
      (1)   Violations. The following constitute violations of this section:
         (a)   The installation, maintenance or operation of any outdoor
artificial light source not in compliance with the provisions of this section;
         (b)   The alteration of any outdoor artificial light source after a
certificate of occupancy has been issued without the review and approval of the
land use authority when such alteration does not conform to the provisions of
this section; and
         (c)   Failure to shield, correct or remove lighting that is installed,
operated, maintained or altered in a manner that does not comply with this
section.
      (2)   Enforcement. Violations of this chapter are subject to enforcement
and penalties as outlined in §
155.999 of this code. If the violation constitutes a safety hazard, typical
enforcement measures shall be employed. Unless the violation constitutes a
safety hazard, enforcement of a violation of this section shall be addressed as
follows.
         (a)   A courtesy letter shall be sent to the landowner that suggests
that there may be noncompliant outdoor lighting on the premises. A second
courtesy letter shall be sent at least 20 calendar days after the previous
courtesy letter if a previous courtesy letter does not either cause the
resolution of the violation or cause the landowner to initiate resolution with
the county as provided in division (H)(2)(c) below. Educational information
about how to appropriately comply with this section shall also be sent and a
method of contacting the county for discussion shall be provided in each
courtesy letter. The second courtesy letter shall state that it is the last
courtesy letter, and future contact will be in the form of a notice to comply.
         (b)   No sooner than 30 days after the second courtesy letter is sent,
if it did not either cause the resolution of the violation or cause the
landowner to initiate resolution with the county as provided in division (H)(2)
(c) below, a notice to comply shall be sent to the landowner. The notice shall
include, with specificity, the violation, and shall give the landowner 30 days
to comply with this section or initiate resolution with the county as provided
in division (H)(2)(c) below. The notice shall also include educational
information about how to appropriately comply with this section.
         (c)   If a landowner initiates resolution of a violation of this
section with the county, the county shall give the landowner no less than six
months and no more than 12 months to comply with this section if is the
landowner clearly demonstrates that good faith efforts will resolve the
violation within the six-month period given. If the landowner does not clearly
demonstrate that good faith efforts will resolve the violation, a notice to
comply shall be sent to the landowner. The notice shall include, with
specificity, the violation and shall give the landowner 30 days to comply with
this section.
         (d)   If, after the steps in divisions (H)(2)(a) through (H)(2)(c)
above have been satisfied, a landowner fails to initiate resolution of a
violation of this section or fails to comply within the period specified in
division (H)(2)(c) above, typical enforcement measures shall be employed.
Additionally, the final approval of current or future plans, the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy or the acceptance of new applications authorized by
this chapter may be withheld until compliance with this section is
demonstrated.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44H)
   (I)   Examples of direct artificial light.
 
   Figure 155.352-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1522.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44I)
   (J)   Examples of unshielded and shielded light sources.
 
   Figure 155.352-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1524.png]
 
   Figure 155.352-3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1527.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44J)
   (K)   Example of light trespass.
 
   Figure 155.352-4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1529.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44K)
   (L)   Standard kelvin temperature chart.
 
   Figure 155.352-5
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1531.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44L)
   (M)   Example of canopy lighting.
 
   Figure 155.352-6
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1533.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44M)
   (N)   Example of parking lot lighting.
 
   Figure 155.352-7
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1538.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44N)
   (O)   Example of recreation facility lighting.
 
   Figure 155.352-8
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0b9d1a92101079ba6f7f43f8328f0b8236e4f37b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1540.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6-44O)
(Ord. 20-01, passed 1-7-2020) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.353 CEMETERY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All cemetery uses (structures, plots and the like) must meet setback
of the property zoning district.
   (B)   All cemeteries must obtain approval from the Weber/Morgan Health
Department.
   (C)   All cemeteries must be clearly marked, fenced, plated and recorded in
the office of the County Recorder as per UCA § 8-3-1.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-45) (Ord. 20-10, passed 7-21-2020)
§ 155.354 FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   Family food production animals.
      (1)   Generally. Family food production animals are allowed on all lots
within the county. The number and type of animals and fowl allowed in the
county shall be limited as in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   Animals allowed. Not more than any of the following are allowed:
two sheep or goats; or 25 pheasants, or chickens, or rabbits, or pigeons; or
ten geese or ducks. Animals and fowl not specifically listed may be substituted
for those listed of similar size as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   4-H or livestock program. There shall be a limit of one per child
for lambs or kids (baby goats) that are raised for the purpose of 4-H or
similar agricultural programs.
      (4)   Setbacks. Setbacks from property lines and residential structures:
         (a)   Buildings for housing or care of animals may be located no
closer than ten feet to any side or rear lot line, 30 feet to any public
street; and
         (b)   All pens, sheds, barns, coops, and stables housing animals and
fowl shall be located not less than 50 feet from a public street. These
provisions shall not apply to pastures.
      (5)   Odor, dust, noise, or drainage. Applicant shall show that odor,
dust, noise, or drainage will be so controlled as to not constitute a nuisance
or hazard to adjoining property or uses.
      (6)   Enclosures. Farm animals must be kept within an enclosed area or
structure sufficient to contain the animals on site.
      (7)   Roosters. Roosters are not permitted.
      (8)   Nuisances. The county animal ordinance shall govern animal
nuisances (Chapter 92).
   (B)   Nuisances. Animal locations, structures, pens, corrals, and any other
premises or structure used for the keeping of horses, cows, sheep, goats,
rabbits, chickens, doves, and pigeons or any other animals must be kept in
clean and sanitary conditions, free from obnoxious odors and substances. All
animals shall be kept confined. Animals or fowl cannot create a disturbance to
the residents in the particular locality by creating any noise, odor, or damage
to the adjacent property. Property owners found in violation to this section
shall be subject to §
155.999.
(Ord. 23-04, passed 4-18-2023) Penalty, see §
155.999
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.365 NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND LOTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses for certain legal nonconforming lots. Notwithstanding
any provision in this chapter to the contrary, accessory buildings or
structures and uses customarily incidental to residential properties that are
allowed within the zoning district where the lot is located shall be permitted
uses for all legal nonconforming lots with existing single-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-1)
   (B)   Illegal lots.
      (1)   Permitted. Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the
contrary, an illegal lot with an existing single-family dwelling shall be
deemed a legal nonconforming lot; provided, that:
         (a)   The lot was created prior to January 1, 2000;
         (b)   The dwelling has been continuously occupied for not less than
the last five consecutive years;
         (c)   The lot and improvements were purchased by a bona fide purchaser
without knowledge of the illegality; and
         (d)   There are no delinquent property taxes.
      (2)   “Illegal lot” defined. For purposes herein, an ILLEGAL LOT means a
lot that was created contrary to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2)
   (C)   Substandard lots at time of passage. Any lot legally held in separate
ownership at the time of adoption of this chapter, which lot is below the
requirements for lot area or lot width or frontage for the district in which it
is located and on which lot a dwelling would be permitted if the lot met the
area requirements of this chapter, may be used for a single-family dwelling if
such a lot is located in an R1 or an RM District. The width of each of the side
yards for such a dwelling may be reduced to a width which is not less than the
same percentage of the lot width as the required side yard would be of the
required lot width; provided, that in no case shall the smaller of the two
yards be less than five feet, nor shall the total width of the two yards be
less than 13 feet; provided, however, that when this chapter replaces a
previously adopted zoning ordinance, if a lot was legally created under the
provisions of that ordinance, it shall be classified as a legal nonconforming
lot under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-3)
   (D)   Nonconforming lots prohibited after adoption.
      (1)   No lot or subdivision having less than the minimum width, depth,
frontage, area, yard depth (setback), building envelope or open space area
required in the district in which it is located may be created, except as may
be expressly allowed elsewhere in this chapter, nor shall any land use
approvals or permits be issued for uses on such lots.
      (2)   Any lot legally platted within the bounds of a subdivision that was
created under the terms of a now repealed PRUD subdivision ordinance, PUD
Overlay Zone, MPDR District or other repealed zoning or subdivision ordinance
intended to provide flexibility from the required minimum width, depth, area,
yard depth (setback), building envelope or open space area, may amend the
width, depth, area, yard depth (setback), building envelope or open space area
of the subdivision lot pursuant to the minimum standards that provided such
flexibility in the ordinance that governed its creation. Current procedural
requirements for plat amendments shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-4)
   (E)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Continued. Except as provided in this division (E), a nonconforming
use or structure may be continued.
         (a)   A nonconforming use may be extended through the same building,
provided no structural alteration of the building is proposed or made for the
purpose of extension.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division (E), the addition of a solar
energy device to a building is not a structural addition.
         (c)   If any county acquires title to any property because of tax
delinquency and the property is not redeemed as provided by law, the future use
of the property shall conform with the existing provisions of the county
ordinances equally applicable to other like properties within the district in
which the property acquired by the county is located.
         (d)   The governing body may provide in any zoning ordinance or
amendment for:
            1.   The restoration, reconstruction, extension, alteration,
expansion or substitution of nonconforming uses upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this chapter;
            2.   The termination of all nonconforming uses, except billboards,
by providing a formula establishing a reasonable time period during which the
owner can recover or amortize the amount of his or her investment in the
nonconforming use, if any; and
            3.   The termination of a billboard that is a nonconforming use by
acquiring the billboard and associated property rights through gift, purchase,
agreement, exchange or eminent domain.
         (e)   If a county prevents a billboard company from maintaining,
repairing or restoring a billboard structure damaged by casualty, act of God or
vandalism, the county’s actions constitute initiation of acquisition by eminent
domain.
         (f)   Notwithstanding divisions (E)(1)(d) and (E)(1)(e) above, a
governing body may remove a billboard without providing compensation or
amortization if, after providing the owner with reasonable notice of
proceedings and an opportunity for a hearing, the governing body finds that:
            1.   The applicant for a permit made a false or misleading
statement in his or her application;
            2.   The billboard is unsafe;
            3.   The billboard is in an unreasonable state of repair; or
            4.   The billboard has been abandoned for at least 12 months.
         (g)   A county may terminate the nonconforming status of school
district property when the property ceases to be used for school district
purposes.
      (2)   Maintenance, repairs and alterations. Maintenance repairs and
structural alterations may be made to a nonconforming structure or to a
structure housing a nonconforming use after receiving required permits.
      (3)   Additions, enlargements and moving.
         (a)   A building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use and a
building or structure nonconforming as to height, area or yard requirements
shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner, or moved to another location
on a lot, nor shall any nonconforming use of land be expanded on a lot, except
as provided herein.
         (b)   A building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use or a
building or structure nonconforming as to height, area or yard regulations may
be added to or enlarged or moved to a new location on the lot after approval by
the Zoning Administrator. Approval shall be granted by the Zoning Administrator
upon findings that the addition, enlargement or movement of the structure does
not create a greater nonconformity than what already exists for yard
regulations, height regulations and coverage regulations of the applicable
zoning district.
      (4)   Alteration where parking insufficient. A building or structure
lacking sufficient automobile parking space in connection therewith as required
by this chapter may be altered or enlarged, provided additional off-street
automobile parking space is supplied to meet the basic requirements of this
chapter for such alteration or enlargement.
      (5)   Restoration of damaged structures. A nonconforming building or
structure or a building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use which is
damaged or is destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity or
act of God or vandalism and the like, may be restored. The occupancy or use of
such building, structure or part thereof, which existed at the time of such
damage or destruction may be continued or resumed; provided, that such
restoration is started within a period of one year and is diligently pursued to
completion in conformance with the ordinances of the county within two years.
      (6)   Preexisting nonconforming use may be continued; provisions. A
structure utilized prior to the effective date hereof for a use, which after
the effective date hereof is nonconforming, may continue to be utilized for
such nonconforming use, unless the structure is vacated or the use ceased for a
continuous period in excess of 365 calendar days. Land used prior to the
effective date hereof for a purpose which after the effective date hereof is
nonconforming may continue to be so used; provided, that such nonconforming use
is not ceased for a continuous period in excess of 365 calendar days. No such
nonconforming use of land may in any way be expanded or extended, either in the
same or on adjoining property, except as may be otherwise provided.
      (7)   Effect of vacating nonconforming structure and ceasing
nonconforming use.
         (a)   A vacant structure may be occupied by a use for which the
building or structure was used, designed or intended, if so occupied within a
period of 365 calendar days after the use became nonconforming.
         (b)   However, a structure or portion thereof occupied by a
nonconforming use which is, or hereafter becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied
by said nonconforming use for a continuous period in excess of 365 calendar
days, shall not thereafter be occupied except by a use which conforms to the
use regulations of the district in which it is located.
         (c)   Should a nonconforming use of land be ceased for a period in
excess of 365 calendar days, any future use of such land shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, and the previously authorized
nonconforming use is expressly prohibited.
      (8)   Effect of change of use. The nonconforming use of a building or
structure may not be changed except to a conforming use; but where such change
is made, the use shall not thereafter be changed back to a nonconforming use.
      (9)   Nonconforming mobile home units.
         (a)   If a nonconforming mobile home is removed from the premises, it
cannot thereafter be returned, except:
            1.   If the mobile home is returned within 60 days where such
removal was upon order of the Building Official for correction of deficiencies
or by decision of the owner for the purpose of correcting deficiencies; or
            2.   A new mobile home may be moved on the premises if:
               a.   Accomplished within 60 days;
               b.   The restored or new mobile home is owned by the same owner
as the mobile home removed; and
               c.   Said mobile home is to be occupied for a continuous period
of at least six months by the same occupants as the mobile home removed.
         (b)   Mobile home and recreational coach parks shall be licensed
annually by the governing body as businesses. Such licenses shall not be issued
to nor renewed for mobile home and recreational coach parks that do not meet
the minimum standards contained in this chapter or otherwise established by the
governing body.
      (10)   Termination of nonconforming uses. The governing body may in any
ordinance provide for the termination of nonconforming uses of land for open
storage or signage, either by specifying the period or periods in which
nonconforming uses shall be required to cease, or providing a formula or
formulas whereby the compulsory termination of a nonconforming use may be so
fixed as to allow for the recovery or amortization of the investment and
reasonable termination costs in the nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-5)
(Ord. 13-12, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 155.366 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Scope and authority.
      (1)   A zoning ordinance may contain provisions for conditional uses that
may be allowed, allowed with conditions, or denied in designated zoning
districts, based on compliance with standards and criteria set forth in this
chapter for those uses.
      (2)   Notice for public meetings and comment period shall be in
accordance with §
155.032 of this code and shall apply for all designations of conditional uses.
The following designations apply to review of conditional uses as noted in the
use tables in §§
155.082 and
155.107 of this code.
         (a)   C1: The C1 designation is a staff level review. These uses are
generally routine and uncontested in nature, and the impact on the surrounding
properties is minimal and can be mitigated with simple, inexpensive measures.
The Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to review and approve, approve
with additional conditions, or deny any application for a C1 designated use.
The applicant may appeal the decision of the Zoning Administrator to the
Planning Commission. Further, the Zoning Administrator may, based on the
potential complexity or conflict in a conditional use, forward the application
to the Planning Commission/County Commission for review.
         (b)   C2: The C2 designation indicates that a review is required by
the Planning Commission. These uses are generally more complex in nature and
may involve public interest and concern. The Zoning Administrator makes a
recommendation to the Planning Commission for review. The Planning Commission
may approve, approve with additional conditions or deny any application for a
C2 designated use. The applicant may appeal the decision of the Planning
Commission to the County Commission. Further, the Planning Commission may,
based on the potential complexity or conflict in a conditional use, forward the
application to the County Commission for review.
         (c)   C3: The C3 designation indicates that a review is required by
the County Commission. These uses are those which, by nature, are complex and
potentially contentious. The mitigating conditions that would apply to such
uses are extensive and require the approval of the governing body. The
application is heard first by the Planning Commission, with a staff report and
recommendation by the Zoning Administrator. The Planning Commission shall
forward a recommendation to the County Commission with a positive
recommendation, a positive recommendation with additional conditions or a
negative recommendation. The County Commission then reviews the application and
shall approve, approve with additional conditions or deny the application.
Appeals to County Commission decisions are made as outlined in §§
155.020 through
155.032 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-1)
   (B)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section and the intent of the
county in its adoption is to promote the health, safety, convenience and
general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the county. This
purpose includes a recognized interest in protecting the environment and
environmental values. This section accomplishes the aforesaid purpose and
intent by providing sufficient flexibility to allow in certain areas compatible
integration of uses which are related to the permitted uses of the district or
are of an interim or temporary nature only, but which may be suitable and
desirable only in certain locations in that district due to conditions and
circumstances peculiar to that location and/or upon certain conditions which
make the uses suitable and/or only if such uses are designed, laid out and
constructed on the proposed site in a particular manner. While flexibility in
allowing uses which would otherwise be generally unsuitable to a given district
is an important goal of this section, it is also recognized that constraints on
governmental decision-making are a legal imperative. This section, therefore,
also provides a framework of standards within which those governmental
decisions must be made.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-2)
   (C)   Conditional use permit requirements.
      (1)   Permit required. A conditional use permit shall be required for all
uses listed as conditional uses in this chapter. The County Commission is
designated as the land use authority for all conditional use permit requests,
after receiving a recommendation from the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Uses requiring permit; exceptions.
         (a)   The following types of uses require a conditional use permit,
wherein approval of a final plan shall constitute the conditional use permit:
            1.   Mobile home parks;
            2.   Recreation vehicle parks;
            3.   Mobile home subdivisions;
            4.   Utility lines or pipelines serving two or more households or
businesses for the transportation, transmission, delivery or receipt of water,
natural gas, electricity, telephone, cable television or other similar uses;
            5.   Commercial and industrial sites;
            6.   Landfills;
            7.   Land excavations; and
            8.   Public and private recreation facilities (golf course, sports
complexes, swimming pools, recreation trails, ski resort and the like).
         (b)   For all other types of conditional uses, final plan approval or
a specific conditional use permit will be issued for the particular use as
appropriate or as provided for in this chapter.
         (c)   Uses exempt from conditional use permit include private
noncommercial temporary camps or campgrounds with overnight camping not
exceeding 30 days per calendar year.
      (3)   Revocation of permit.
         (a)   In the event any person holding a conditional use permit
pursuant to this division (C) violates the terms of the permit, or conducts or
carries on said site development in such a manner as to materially adversely
affect the health, welfare or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of the property of the said permittee, a temporary suspension may
be made effective immediately upon notification by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   No conditional use permit shall be permanently revoked or
suspended until a public meeting is held by the County Commission, after
receiving a recommendation from the Planning Commission at a public meeting.
The permittee shall be notified in writing of such meetings and said
notification shall state:
            1.   The grounds for complaint or reasons for the revocation or
suspension, in clear and concise language;
            2.   The time and place such meetings are to be held. Such notice
shall be served by registered mail or personal service on the permittee at
least five days prior to the date set for the meeting. At any such meeting, the
permittee shall be given an opportunity to be heard and may call witnesses and
present evidence. Upon conclusion of such meeting, the County Commission shall
determine whether or not the permit shall be suspended or revoked; and
            3.   The Planning Commission shall hold a preliminary meeting to
consider its recommendations to the governing body for revocation or suspension
of permits which have been temporarily suspended as practicable.
      (4)   Expiration of permit. Every conditional use permit shall run with
the land, unless specific conditions regarding time limitation are placed on
the permit which are necessary to mitigate potential detrimental effects.
      (5)   Grounds for denial of conditional use permit application. A
conditional use permit may be denied if the reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the
proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
applicable standards.
      (6)   Approval conditions. A conditional use shall be approved if
reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the
reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance
with applicable standards.
         (a)   Exceptions. The County Commission, after receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission, may authorize exceptions to any of
the requirements and regulations set forth in this section. Application for any
exception shall be made by a verified petition (such as a notarized document)
of the applicant stating fully the grounds of the application and the facts
relied upon by the petitioner. Such petition shall be filed with the
conditional use permit application. In order for the land referred to in the
petition to come within the provisions of this division (C), it is required
that the County Commission find all of the following facts with respect
thereto:
            1.   That the land is of such shape or size, or is affected by such
physical conditions, or is subject to such title limitations of record that it
is impossible or impractical for the developer to comply with all of the
regulations of this chapter;
            2.   That the exception is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right by the petitioner;
            3.   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity of the
subject property; and
            4.   That granting the exception will not be detrimental to the
environment.
         (b)   Exception process. Each proposed exception shall be processed in
the same manner as is required by this chapter for conditional use permit
applications.
         (c)   Written findings, conclusions. Any such approval or disapproval
of requested exceptions shall be accompanied by written findings of fact and
conclusions therefrom.
      (7)   Inspections for compliance. Following the issuance of a conditional
use permit by the land use authority, the Zoning Administrator shall inspect
such use to ensure that development is undertaken and completed in compliance
with the conditional use permit. Inspection can be requested by the Zoning
Administrator, the Planning Commission, the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission, the governing body, the Chairperson of the governing body or any
affected party.
      (8)   Minimum construction and improvement standards. Construction
standards, including drawings, tables, charts, references and regulations, may
be adopted by resolution by the governing body, and when done so shall
constitute land development standards supplementing this chapter.
      (9)   Conflicting provisions. Where specific requirements are made or
exemptions allowed under other sections of this chapter, those requirements or
exemptions shall prevail over the land development standards supplementing this
chapter.
      (10)   Improvements construction obligation of developer. Improvements
required by this chapter shall be constructed at the expense of the developer
and shall comply with the land development standards supplementing this
chapter.
      (11)   Commencement of construction prior to approval prohibited. Site
improvement or grading of any proposed development site prior to preliminary
design plan approval by the land use authority is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-3)
   (D)   Performance standards for all conditional uses. There is a need to
promote healthy and visually and auditory attractive environments and to reduce
conflicts between different land uses. As part of the purpose to protect the
health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
county, the performance standards delineated in this division (D) are intended
to conserve, enhance, restore and maintain significant natural and human-made
features which are of public value, including among other things, river
corridors, streams, lakes and islands, domestic water supply, watersheds, flood
storage areas, natural shorelines and unique vegetation, wetlands, wildlife and
fish habitats, significant geological features, tourist attractions,
archaeological features and sites, historic features and sites and scenic views
and vistas, and to establish criteria and standards for the development, change
of use or alteration of such features. As responsible parties, applicants for
conditional use permits shall meet all specific requirements made in this
chapter. The Planning Commission may establish additional requirements as
outlined herein to meet the concerns of safety for persons and property, health
and sanitation, environment, general plan and neighborhood needs, performance
and administration. More specifically, and without limitation, the Planning
Commission may require:
      (1)   Conditions relating to safety for persons and property:
         (a)   Building elevations and grading plans which will prevent or
minimize floodwater damage, where property may be subject to flooding;
         (b)   The relocation, covering or fencing of irrigation ditches,
drainage channels and other potential attractive nuisances existing on or
adjacent to the property;
         (c)   Increased setback distances from lot lines where the Planning
Commission determines it to be necessary to ensure the public safety and to
ensure compatibility with the intended characteristics of the district as
outlined in this chapter;
         (d)   Appropriate design, construction and location of structures,
buildings and facilities in relation to any earthquake fault which may exist on
the property and limitations and/or restrictions on the use and/or location of
uses due to special site conditions, including, but not limited to,
geologically hazardous areas; floodplains; fault zones; and landslide areas;
         (e)   Limitations and control of the number, location, color, size,
height, lighting and landscaping of outdoor advertising signs and structures in
relation to the creation of traffic hazards and appearance and harmony with
adjacent development;
         (f)   Plans for the location, arrangement and dimensions of truck
loading and unloading facilities;
         (g)   Construction of curbs, gutters, drainage culverts, sidewalks,
streets, fire hydrants and street lighting;
         (h)   Reduction of permitted street grades for winter and storm
conditions, or exposure;
         (i)   Fences shall not create visual nor other safety hazards;
         (j)   Backing movements, passing vehicles, sidewalk traffic, small
children and the like, shall be considered in the location of fences and
effects on circulation system;
         (k)   Numbers and types of vehicles per time period associated with
the conditional use activities; and
         (l)   Time of day and days of the week conditional use may operate.
      (2)   Conditions relating to health and sanitation:
         (a)   A guarantee of sufficient water to serve the intended land use
and a water delivery system meeting standards adopted by the governing body;
         (b)   A wastewater disposal system and a solid waste disposal system
meeting standards adopted by the governing body; and
         (c)   Construction of water mains, sewer mains and drainage facilities
serving the proposed use, in sizes necessary to protect existing utility users
in the district and to provide for an orderly development of land in the
county.
      (3)   Environmental concerns:
         (a)   Limitations and/or restrictions on the use and/or location of
uses in sensitive areas due to soils capabilities, wildlife and plant life;
         (b)   Standards intended to conserve, enhance, restore and maintain
significant natural and human-made features which are of public value,
including among other things, river corridors, streams, lakes and islands,
domestic water supply watersheds, flood storage areas, natural shorelines and
unique vegetation, wetlands, wildlife and fish habitats, significant geological
features, tourist attractions, archaeological features and sites, historic
features and sites and scenic views and vistas and to establish criteria and
standards for the development, change of use or alteration of such features;
         (c)   Processes for the control, elimination or prevention of land,
water or air pollution; the prevention of soil erosion; and the control of
objectionable odors. Processes for the control, elimination or prevention of
land, water or air pollution; the prevention of soil erosion; and the control
of objectionable odors:
            1.   These processes may include restrictions on degradation of
water quality;
            2.   Developments which produce any discharge to any watercourse
shall demonstrate compliance with all federal, state and county water quality
standards as evidenced by the issuance of any permits required for their
discharge by the federal government, state and/or county; and
            3.   Whenever sedimentation is caused by stripping vegetation,
regrading or other development, it shall be the responsibility of the person,
corporation or other entity causing such sedimentation to remove it from all
adjoining surfaces and drainage systems prior to final approvals for the
project. It is the responsibility of any person, corporation or other entity
doing any act on or across a stream, watercourse or swale or upon the
floodplain or right-of-way thereof, to maintain as nearly as possible in its
present state the stream, watercourse, swale, floodplain or right-of-way during
such activity.
         (d)   The planting of ground cover or other surfacing to prevent dust
and erosion:
            1.   The proposed land disturbing activity will ensure and provide
an undisturbed vegetation buffer from the top of the bank of a stream, wetland
or other water body, unless a mitigation plan is approved for alterations
within the buffer area;
            2.   Whenever feasible, natural vegetation will be retained and
protected;
            3.   Temporary vegetation and/or mulching shall be used to protect
exposed critical areas during development; and
            4.   Plans will be made to accommodate increased runoff and
sedimentation caused by altered soil and surface conditions during and after
the proposed activity.
         (e)   Restructuring of the land and planting of the same as directed
by the Planning Commission when the conditional use involves cutting and/or
filling the land and where such land would be adversely affected if not
restructured;
         (f)   Limitations and/or restrictions on construction and/or
development on slopes in excess of 30% to control erosion;
         (g)   If the proposed conditional use involves hillside construction
and/or development, the application will be approved only after the applicant
provides:
            1.   Topographic information showing that the proposed activity is
on land with a slope less than 30% and that it is located more than 200 feet
from a known landslide;
            2.   A geologic/geotechnical report which shall be in form and
content approved by the County Engineer, consisting of, among other things, a
slope stability study, earthquake analysis and sedimentation analysis, prepared
by a certified engineering geologist or geotechnical engineer approved by the
County Engineer, certifying that the site or route in its entirety is suitable
for the proposed development;
            3.   Such other engineering or technical reports as may be required
by the Planning Commission or governing body; and
            4.   Detailed construction plans, drawings and specifications which
outline all construction methods proposed to be utilized.
         (h)   In all cases, the applicant may be required to supply a geologic
report, a geotechnical study, a hydrological study, a civil engineering study
and other applicable engineering studies required by the Planning Commission or
governing body acceptable in form and content to the County Engineer;
         (i)   The applicant’s conditional use may be limited or denied if
blasting, drilling or any other construction activity involved will weaken, or
cause, adjoining slopes, geologic formations and human-made improvements to
become unstable or if the proposed construction or operation will result in the
creation of a geologic hazard to surrounding properties, such as through
slumping, sliding or drainage modifications;
         (j)    Standards to maintain the integrity/existence of natural
drainage patterns as determined by the Planning Commission;
         (k)   Construction methods, specifications, drawings, plans and
practices as requested by the County Engineer; and
         (l)   An environmental assessment and/or an environmental impact
statement which includes an alternatives analysis performed by a company
approved in advance by the Planning Commission may be required.
            1.   The environmental assessment/environmental impact statement
shall identify all environmental concerns, including, but not limited to,
visual and auditory aesthetics, erosion control, land, water and air pollution,
and an alternatives analysis.
            2.   The alternatives analysis in the environmental assessment/
environmental impact statement will address all reasonably possible
alternatives to the proposed project. In the event the proposed use is a
utility line or pipeline for the transportation, transmission, delivery or
receipt of water, natural gas, electricity, telephone, cable television or any
other similar use, public property or roadway rights-of-way shall be utilized
to the extent possible and the least damaging practical alternative is presumed
to be such public property or roadway rights-of-way; condemnation of private
property for such uses is not favored and will only be allowed if there is no
other reasonably practical alternative. This analysis must demonstrate that the
applicant’s chosen alternative is the least environmentally damaging of those
alternatives available.
            3.   A finding of no other practicable alternative for the proposed
use may be made after demonstration by the applicant that:
               a.   The basic purpose of the project cannot reasonably be
accomplished using another alternative;
               b.   The basic purpose of the project cannot be accomplished by
a reduction in the size, scope, configuration or density of the project as
proposed, or by changing the design of the project in a way that would result
in fewer adverse effects; and
               c.   If the applicant has rejected other alternatives, the
applicant shall show that a reasonable attempt has been made to remove or
accommodate the constraints associated with the rejected alternative.
         (m)   Such other or additional standards as may be established by the
Planning Commission or governing body as they may deem necessary for the
protection of the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the
present and future inhabitants of the county and the environment.
      (4)   Conditions relating to compliance with intent of general plan and
characteristics of vicinity (or neighborhood):
         (a)   The removal of structures, debris or plant materials,
incompatible with the intended characteristics of the district outlined in this
chapter;
         (b)   The screening of yards or other areas as protection from
obnoxious land uses and activities;
         (c)   Landscaping to ensure compatibility with the intended
characteristics of the district as outlined in this chapter;
         (d)   Limitations or controls on the location, height and materials of
walls, fences, hedges and screen plantings to ensure harmony with adjacent
development, or to conceal storage areas, utility installations or other
unsightly development;
         (e)   The relocation of proposed or existing structures as necessary
to provide for future streets on the major street plan of the county, adequate
sight distances for general safety, groundwater control or similar problems;
         (f)   Provision for or construction of recreational facilities
necessary to satisfy needs of the conditional use;
         (g)   Population density and intensity of land use limitations where
land capability and/or vicinity relationships make it appropriate to do so to
protect health, safety and welfare or conservation of values;
         (h)   Other improvements which serve the property in question and
which may compensate in part or in whole for possible adverse impacts to the
district from the proposed conditional use;
         (i)   Conservation of values; community, neighborhood and property
values; and
         (j)   The character of the neighborhood and aesthetics of the
streetscape shall be considered in the location of fences and in determining
the reduction of any front yard for fencing purposes.
      (5)   Conditions relating to performance:
         (a)   Time limits on the validity of the conditional use permit. Such
time limits shall be determined by the following guidelines:
            1.   A conditional use permit for uses which are of a temporary
nature only may be issued for the intended duration of the temporary use or for
two years, whichever period of time is shorter; and
            2.   Unless there is substantial and positive development action
under a conditional use permit within a period of one year of its issuance,
said permit shall expire. The Planning Commission and governing body may grant
a maximum extension for one year, when deemed in the public interest.
         (b)   The Planning Commission and/or governing body may require the
applicant to pay a performance and completion bond for 115% of the cost of
construction. The Planning Commission and governing body may also require a
performance bond for 115% of the cost of rehabilitation to ensure that proper
rehabilitation is made over a three-year period. The rehabilitation
requirements will be determined by the County Engineer;
         (c)   Specific short- and long-range plans of development may be
required to demonstrate timeliness, feasibility and impact on the public;
         (d)   The applicant may be required to demonstrate that the general
and specific requirements of this chapter are met. In addressing these
requirements, the applicant and the Planning Commission shall give due regard
to the nature and condition of adjacent uses and structures. The environmental
and other concerns, including, but not limited to, visual and auditory
aesthetics, erosion control, energy conservation concerns and water and air
pollution listed in this division (D) under performance standards for
conditional uses apply; and
         (e)   In connection with and as a condition of approval of any
application for a conditional use, the applicant shall sign such agreements in
form and content approved by the County Attorney, Planning Commission and
governing body embodying any of the standards or requirements set forth herein
or otherwise established by the Planning Commission and/or governing body.
      (6)   Energy conservation concerns:
         (a)   Solar orientation of buildings and uses;
         (b)   Use of renewable energy sources;
         (c)   Efficiency of exterior lighting;
         (d)   Shading and protection of important buildings and pavings
(parking lots and the like), landscaping and trees, location of buildings and
screens;
         (e)   Effective use of vestibules;
         (f)   Wind screening;
         (g)   Circulation (travel) efficiency;
         (h)   Efficiency of stormwater removal and erosion control;
         (i)   Maintenance efficiency for off-site improvements to be
maintained by the public; and
         (j)   Maintenance efficiency for on site improvements to be maintained
by users, occupants and owners and the like.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-4)
   (E)   General standards for conditional use developments. When applicable,
the following general standards shall apply to all conditional use developments
within the county, unless waived for good and sufficient reasons by the
Planning Commission.
      (1)   Ownership. The development shall be in single or corporate
ownership at the time of application, or the subject of an application filed
jointly by all owners of the property.
      (2)   Landscaping, fencing and screening. Landscaping, fencing and
screening within the site and as a means of integrating the proposed
development into its surroundings shall be planned and presented to the
Planning Commission for approval, together with other required plans for the
development.
      (3)   Signs and lighting. The size, location, design and nature of signs,
if any, and the intensity and direction of area lighting or floodlighting shall
be detailed in the application.
      (4)   Grading and drainage plan. A grading and drainage plan shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission with the application.
      (5)   Planting plan. A planting plan showing the proposed tree, shrubbery
and lawn plantings shall be prepared for the entire site to be developed,
including especially the yards which abut upon public streets.
      (6)   Use not detrimental. It shall be shown that under the circumstances
of the particular case, the proposed use will not be detrimental to the health,
safety or general welfare of persons residing in the vicinity of the
conditional use development.
      (7)   Water and sewer system. All buildings used for human occupancy when
completed shall be served by a central water system and appropriate sewage
disposal system which have been approved by the Building Official and which are
in compliance with applicable local and state law.
      (8)   Bond. In order to ensure that the development will be constructed
to completion in accordance with approved plans, the Planning Commission shall
require the developer to render a payment, or post a performance and/or
completion bond, mortgage or other valuable assurance acceptable to the
governing body, in an amount equal to the estimated cost as determined by the
County Engineer, plus 15% of constructing the proposed project, including,
without limitation, all required landscaping, road improvements,
pedestrianways, bike paths, curbs and gutters, utility lines, conduits, street
lighting, hard surfacing, culinary water and sewer lines (and domestic sewage
disposal facilities if sewer is not available), as shown on the final site
plan. The Planning Commission and/or governing body shall also require the
developer to post an adequate bond to ensure proper rehabilitation as the
circumstances warrant. The Planning Commission and/or governing body may also
require of the developer an additional bond to ensure against any damage to any
property, buildings, improvements, structures, water wells, springs and water
aquifers which may be adversely affected by the proposed project in such
amounts as the Planning Commission and/or governing body determine is
appropriate under the proposed project. Any such bond shall be in favor of the
county and each affected third-party private property owner. Estimates of cost
shall be furnished by the developer which will be checked for accuracy by the
Planning Commission staff. Final determination of the amount of each required
bond or other assurance shall be made by the governing body.
         (a)   The duration of the bond or other assurance shall be for one or
more years from the date of approval of the development by the governing body
and an extension of time for completion may be granted by the governing body
upon application by the developers, provided such application is submitted at
least 60 days prior to the expiration of the bond or other assurance, and
provided the issuer of the bond is willing to extend the time of the assurance.
         (b)   In the event the developer defaults or fails or neglects to
satisfactorily install the required improvements within one year from the date
of approval of the development by the governing body, or to pay all liens in
connection therewith, the governing body may declare the bond or other
assurance forfeited and the county may install or cause the required
improvements to be installed using the proceeds from the collection of the bond
or other assurance to defray the expense thereof.
         (c)   The developer shall be responsible for the quality of all
materials and quality of work. At the completion of the work, or not less than
ten days prior to the release date of the bond or other assurance, the County
Engineer shall make a preliminary inspection of the improvements to be made and
submit a report to the governing body setting forth the conditions of such
facilities. If all liens are paid and other conditions thereof are found to be
satisfactory, the governing body shall release the bond or other assurance. If
the condition of material or quality of work shows unusual depreciation or does
not comply with the acceptable standards of durability, or if any outstanding
liens are not paid, the governing body may declare the developer in default.
      (9)   Fees and costs paid by applicant. In connection with any
application for a conditional use, the applicant shall pay to the county,
within ten days of receipt of each invoice, all of the county’s out of pocket
engineering and professional fees and costs incurred in connection with the
independent professional review, inspection, testing and/or analysis of the
proposed development or project, and the project during construction and upon
completion of the same, including, without limitation, all plan and report
review and inspections, and supervising and reviewing any required
environmental assessment or environmental impact statement.
      (10)   Environment. Grouping and spacing of buildings and dwellings in
residential areas shall provide for a restful and uncrowded environment.
Landscaped areas shall be encouraged as the dominant features of the
development. Areas not covered by buildings or by off-street parking space or
driveways shall generally be planted into natural vegetation, lawn, trees and
shrubs and otherwise landscaped and maintained in accordance with good
landscape practice as approved on the final plan. Permanent automatic
irrigation systems shall be installed when required by the Planning Commission
to provide for maintenance of planted areas.
      (11)   Plans, plats and documents. Details of plans, plats and documents
to be submitted showing the size of water lines, sewer lines and other domestic
sewage disposal facilities, garbage and trash disposal, the quality of material
and improvements, protection from adverse influences, lighting, landscaping,
off-street parking, grading and other details of design and construction shall
conform to standards as set forth in such resolutions pertaining to such
standards as may be adopted by the Planning Commission.
      (12)   Standards and requirements. The development shall meet all
standards and requirements of this chapter and all requirements of applicable
ordinances.
      (13)   Character of district. The development shall be in keeping with
the general character of the district within which it is to be located.
      (14)   Plan preparation. Depending upon the complexity of the project,
the Planning Commission may require that plans for the development be prepared
by a qualified professional team. In all cases, it is recommended that
professional design and other assistance be obtained early in the program. It
is the intent of the county that the developer solves his or her problems
before approval is given and construction begins.
      (15)   Storm drainage facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be so
constructed as to protect residents of the development as well as adjacent
property owners. Such facilities shall be of sufficient capacity to ensure
rapid drainage and prevent the accumulation of stagnant pools of water in or
adjacent to the development.
      (16)   Permits required. All structures required by this chapter to have
building permits and all uses required to have use permits shall be inspected
by the Building Official in accordance with procedures established by the
Building Code, as adopted by the county and this chapter; provided, however,
that no building permit for such structures or use permits shall be issued
until the Planning Commission, or the Zoning Administrator if authorized by the
Planning Commission and governing body, has issued a conditional use permit for
the building site or use or have determined that a conditional use permit is
not required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-5)
   (F)   Mobile home parks, mobile home subdivisions and recreational vehicle
parks.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this division (F) is:
         (a)   Variety; flexibility. To permit variety and flexibility in land
development for residential purposes by allowing the use of mobile homes and
recreational vehicles under certain conditions; and
         (b)   Promotion; protection. To require that mobile home and
recreational vehicle developments will be of such character as to promote the
objectives and purposes of this chapter; to protect the integrity and
characteristics of the district contiguous to those in which mobile home parks
are located; and to protect other land use values contiguous to or near mobile
home or recreational vehicle developments.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   Park, subdivision; exception. No mobile home shall be located
anywhere within the corporate boundaries of the county, except in a licensed
mobile home park or approved mobile home subdivision, or as temporary living
quarters by conditional use permit. Emergency or temporary parking of any
unoccupied mobile home outside a licensed mobile home park or mobile home
subdivision will be permitted for a period not exceeding 24 hours. This
limitation does not apply to unoccupied mobile homes in licensed mobile home
sales areas.
         (b)   Recreational coaches. Recreational coaches which do not include
facilities necessary to be “mobile homes,” as defined in §
155.008 of this code, shall not be used at any place within the established
boundaries of the county, at any time, for living quarters, except in
designated camping areas or recreational coach parks.
         (c)   Unoccupied recreational coaches. Recreational coaches which are
unoccupied for living space may be temporarily stored on a private residential
lot or larger parcel of land, provided they do not violate any required
setbacks for front or side yards. Long-term storage of recreational coaches,
maintenance operations, reconstruction or construction activities are permitted
within enclosures only and in zoning districts allowing such uses.
      (3)   Standards and requirements.
         (a)   Review for compliance. The Planning Commission shall review the
proposed development plan to determine its compliance with all portions of the
county’s General Plan and, among other things, shall attempt to make sure that
such development will constitute a residential environment of sustained
desirability and stability, and that it will not adversely affect amenities in
the surrounding area. Standards higher than the minimum standards contained in
this chapter may be required if necessary for local conditions of health,
safety and protection of property and to ensure that the development will mix
harmoniously with contiguous and nearby existing and planned uses.
         (b)   Required facilities. The Planning Commission shall not approve
any application for a mobile home park, recreational vehicle park or mobile
home subdivision conditional use permit if the developer cannot provide
required water supplies and facilities, waste disposal systems, storm drainage
facilities, access or improvements or if the developer cannot assure that the
development will be completed within 12 months, or if the Planning Commission
or governing body determines there would be unusual danger of flood, fire or
other hazard or if the proposed development would be of such character or in
such a location that it would:
            1.   Create excessive costs for public services and facilities;
            2.   Endanger the health or safety of the public;
            3.   Unreasonably hurt or destroy the environment;
            4.   Cause excessive air or water pollution, or soil erosion; or
            5.   Be inconsistent with any adopted general or specific plan of
the area in which it is to be placed.
         (c)   Specified standards and requirements. The development shall
conform to the following standards and requirements:
            1.   The area shall be in one ownership, or if in several, the
application for approval of the development shall be filed jointly by all
owners of the property included in the plan;
            2.   A strip of land at least 15 feet wide surrounding the entire
park shall be left unoccupied by mobile homes, recreational vehicles, storage
buildings, service buildings, garages or any add-ons, and shall be planted and
maintained in lawn, shrubs, trees, with an approved durable permanent wall or
fence designed to afford privacy to the development;
            3.   All storage and solid waste receptacles outside the confines
of any mobile home or recreational vehicle shall be housed in a closed
structure compatible in design and construction to the mobile homes, and to any
service buildings within the development; all patios, carports, garages and
other add-ons shall be compatible in design and construction with the mobile
home. The service buildings shall be constructed in accordance with standard
commercial practice and kept in good repair as determined by the Zoning
Administrator. In mobile home developments where units will be situated with
long axis perpendicular to the street, streets will run in a north-south
direction to the greatest extent possible. This is to promote solar orientation
of the units; and
            4.   In addition to meeting the above requirements and conditions,
and conforming to the other laws of the county, all mobile home parks,
recreational vehicle parks and mobile home subdivisions shall also conform to
all applicable state regulations. In the event of any conflict between said
regulations and this section, this section shall take precedence where its
regulations are more strict and the provisions of the state regulations shall
take precedence where such regulations are more strict.
         (d)   Underground utilities. Every mobile home park, recreational
vehicle park and mobile home subdivision shall provide underground utility
service to every mobile home stand or lot as required by the Planning
Commission, including, but not limited to, water, sewer, power, natural gas,
telephone and television.
         (e)   Inspection and special regulation of mobile homes. Mobile homes
are considered by the county to be less durable and less resistant to
deterioration than are conventional homes; therefore, all mobile homes which
are used for human habitation, whether conforming or nonconforming, and whether
located in mobile home parks, in mobile home subdivisions or on bona fide farms
or ranches, shall be subject to the following special regulations:
            1.   Permits are required for mobile home plumbing and electrical
hookups, and such hookups shall be made only by licensed plumbers and
electricians;
            2.   No mobile home may be placed on a permanent foundation without
state-approved modification;
            3.   A certificate of compliance is required for all mobile homes
within the county, whether occupied or awaiting occupancy, and may be obtained
from the Building Official following an inspection wherein the mobile home is
found to meet the safety, sanitary and structural standards adopted by the
county. The state inspection certificate will be honored in lieu of a
certificate of compliance;
            4.   Each mobile home may be inspected annually, or upon evidence
of need, by the Building Official, to determine whether the structure is sound
and being kept in a safe and sanitary condition for human habitation. During
the inspection, the local Building Official may revoke the certificate of
compliance or certificate in lieu thereof for cause, including, but not limited
to, violation of the Fire or Sanitary Codes adopted by the county, substantial
deterioration of structure so as to adversely affect the health or safety of
the occupants or deterioration in appearance so as to be unsightly and to
adversely affect the value of neighboring properties;
            5.   Upon the revocation of a certificate of compliance or
certificate in lieu thereof, or a finding of noncompliance, the Building
Official shall order the deficiencies corrected and a certificate of compliance
obtained within 30 days; and
            6.   If such deficiencies are not corrected, or cannot be
corrected, the mobile home shall be ordered vacated and removed from the
premises upon which located and shall not thereafter be used for human
habitation within the county unless all deficiencies are corrected and a
certificate of compliance obtained.
         (f)   Compliance with other regulations. Any mobile home or
recreational vehicle located in any permitted area shall comply with and
conform to all other zoning laws, rules and regulations and Building, Plumbing,
Electrical, Fire Prevention and all other Codes and requirements applicable to
a structure or building erected within the district in which said mobile home
or recreational vehicle is located.
         (g)   Guarantees.
            1.   For mobile home parks and recreational vehicle parks, adequate
and reasonable guarantees must be provided as determined by the Planning
Commission and governing body for permanent retention of open spaces and for
the maintenance of roadways, storage facilities, service facilities and
landscaping resulting from the application of these regulations. Guarantees
shall be in the form of a bond, or a cash deposit, in the sum to be determined
by the Planning Commission, which form must be approved by the governing body
and the County Attorney. The basis for providing assurance of compliance will
be a management plan developed by the applicant and approved by the Planning
Commission and governing body that will outline standards of operation,
remedies for failure to comply with those standards and a single responsible
person or entity for its administration and dealing with the county.
            2.   In any case, when a mobile home park or recreational vehicle
park is owned by more than one person, the developer shall establish and
appoint a park manager. The manager shall be authorized to receive, process and
represent fully the interests of the owners in respect to continuing management
and maintenance of the park.
            3.   Prerequisite to the operation of any mobile home park or
recreational vehicle park in the county shall be the obtaining of an annual
business license from the county.
            4.   In the event a mobile home or recreational vehicle park is not
completed according to approved plans or operated and maintained according to
the approved management plan, the annual business license may be denied or
revoked. The mobile homes or recreational vehicles and associated property and
facilities shall be removed, and all services discontinued before any part of
the land within the development planning area may be used for any other purpose
or be subdivided.
            5.   The premises on which any mobile home is located, used or
occupied shall be maintained in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The
accumulation of any rubbish, waste, weeds, inoperative vehicles or other
unsightly material thereon, shall constitute a public nuisance and a violation
of this chapter. Reasonable guarantees to ensure compliance with this
requirement will be required of the developer and/or owner as a condition of
conditional use permit approval and ultimately the issuance of the annual
county business license.
      (4)   Additional requirements for mobile home parks. In addition to the
requirements for mobile home parks outlined in this division (F), mobile home
parks shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   Number; density. The number of mobile homes shall be limited to
seven units per acre and may be limited to fewer units, depending on mobile
home size, topography and other factors of the particular site. The mobile
homes may be clustered; provided, that the total number of units does not
exceed the number permitted on one acre, multiplied by the number of acres in
the development. The remaining land not contained in individual lots, roads or
parking shall be set aside and developed as parks, playgrounds and service
areas for the common use and enjoyment of occupants of the development, and the
visitors thereto.
         (b)   Setbacks. No home or add-on shall be located closer than ten
feet from the nearest portion of any other home or add-on. All such homes and
add-ons shall be set back at least ten feet from road curbs or walks. If the
mobile home tongue remains attached, it shall be set back a minimum of six feet
from road curbs or walks. All mobile homes, storage buildings, service
buildings, garages, carports or other add-ons and the like, shall be set back
at least 15 feet from any boundary of the mobile home park.
         (c)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate of two
parking spaces per mobile home space, and each such parking space shall have a
minimum width of ten feet and minimum depth of 20 feet. In no case shall the
parking space be located farther than 100 feet from the mobile home space it is
designed to serve.
         (d)   Security compound. A security compound for storage of vehicles,
boats and other large items shall be provided equivalent to a minimum of 300
square feet of paved area per mobile home space, as approved by the Planning
Commission.
         (e)   Bulk storage area. One-story bulk storage areas shall be
provided within a mobile home park, equivalent to 60 square feet per mobile
home space. The area designated for said bulk storage shall be improved,
landscaped and screened as approved by the Planning Commission.
         (f)   Common area. Not less than 10% of the gross land area shall be
set aside for the joint use and enjoyment of occupants in a park-like setting
with both active and passive recreational accommodations. The land covered by
vehicular roadways, sidewalks, off-street parking and required setbacks shall
not be construed as part of this 10% common area required; provided, however,
that in initial stages of development or special smaller developments, the
minimum area shall be not less than one-half acre or 10%, whichever is greater.
         (g)   Lighting. Yard lighting with a minimum of 0.2 foot-candles of
light shall be required for protective yard lighting the full length of all
driveways and walkways.
         (h)   Landscaping. All areas not covered by mobile homes or
recreational vehicles, hard surfacing or buildings shall be landscaped as
approved by the Planning Commission, and such landscaping shall be permanently
maintained.
         (i)   Surfacing of driveways and parking spaces. All off-street
parking spaces and driveways shall be hard-surfaced before the adjacent spaces
may be occupied.
         (j)   Roadways. The roadways shall be designed to accommodate
anticipated traffic, including the following standards, unless modified by an
approved planned unit development plan:
            1.   One-way traffic: A minimum of 15 feet in width plus extra
width as necessary for maneuvering mobile homes;
            2.   Two-way traffic: A minimum of 30 feet in width;
            3.   Entrance roadways: A minimum of 36 feet in width;
            4.   Roadways: All roadways shall be hard-surfaced and bordered by
24-inch rolled gutters or an approved equivalent;
            5.   Sidewalks: 36-inch minimum width sidewalks shall be installed
on all main roadways within the development, if required by the Planning
Commission; and
            6.   Access: Each park shall have at least two accesses to public
streets, unless more than one access is prohibited by a responsible public
agency.
         (k)   Skirting. Within 45 days of occupancy, each mobile home shall be
skirted or if shields are used, they are to be fireproof, well-painted or
otherwise preserved.
         (l)   Storm drainage. Storm drainage facilities shall be so
constructed as to protect residents of the development as well as adjacent
property owners. Such facilities must be of sufficient capacity to ensure rapid
drainage and prevent the accumulation of stagnant pools of water in or adjacent
to the development.
         (m)   General appearance. The mobile home park shall:
            1.   Be in keeping with the general character of the district in
which it is to be located;
            2.   Be located on a parcel of land not less than ten acres, or on
two or more parcels separated by a street or alley only and totaling ten acres,
unless modified by an approved planned unit development plan; and
            3.   Have at least 25 spaces completed, ready for occupancy, or an
approved financing plan for construction and phase completion, together with
approved security to ensure compliance, before first occupancy is permitted.
         (n)   Laundry. A laundry for convenience of park occupants, but not
for the general public, may be included in mobile home parks.
         (o)   Term of rental. No mobile home space shall be rented for a
period of less than 30 days, and occupancy shall be by written lease. Leases
shall be made available for inspection by the officials of the county upon
demand.
         (p)   Mobile home stands. Access shall be provided to each mobile home
stand for maneuvering mobile homes into position. The accessway shall be kept
free from trees and other immovable obstructions. Paving under mobile homes
will not be required if adequate support is provided as required by state
regulations. Use of planks, steel mats or other means to support the mobile
home during placement shall be allowed, as long as the same are removed upon
completion of placement.
      (5)   Additional requirements for recreational vehicle parks. In addition
to the requirements for recreational vehicle parks outlined in herein,
recreational vehicle parks shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   Location. Recreational vehicle parks shall generally be located:
            1.   Adjacent to or in close proximity to a major traffic artery or
highway;
            2.   Near adequate shopping facilities; and
            3.   Within or adjacent to a mobile home park.
         (b)   Common area. Not less than 10% of the gross land area shall be
set aside for the joint use or enjoyment of occupants. The land covered by
vehicular roadways, sidewalks and off- street parking shall not be construed as
part of the 10% common area required for parks and playgrounds for occupants;
provided, however, that in initial stages of development or in special smaller
developments the minimum area shall not be less than one-half acre or 10%,
whichever is greater.
         (c)   Lighting. Yard lighting with a minimum of 0.2 foot-candles of
light shall be required for protective yard lighting the full length of all
driveways and walkways.
         (d)   Landscaping. All areas not covered by recreational vehicles,
hard surfacing or buildings shall be landscaped and permanently maintained
pursuant to a plan approved by the Planning Commission.
         (e)   Surfacing of driveways and parking areas. All off-street parking
spaces and driveways shall be hard-surfaced before the adjacent recreational
vehicle spaces may be occupied.
         (f)   Roadways. The roadways shall be designed to accommodate
anticipated traffic, including the following standards, unless modified by an
approved planned unit development plan:
            1.   One-way traffic: A minimum of 15 feet in width, plus extra
width as necessary for maneuvering recreational vehicles;
            2.   Two-way traffic: A minimum of 30 feet in width;
            3.   Entrance roadways: Minimum of 36 feet in width;
            4.   Roadways: All roadways shall be hard-surfaced and bordered by
24-inch rolled gutters or an approved equivalent;
            5.   Sidewalks: 36-inch minimum width sidewalks shall be installed
on all main roadways within the development, if required by the Planning
Commission; and
            6.   Access: Each recreational vehicle park shall have at least two
accesses to public streets, unless more than one is prohibited by a responsible
public agency.
         (g)   Term of rental. No individual space in a recreational vehicle
park shall be used by one individual recreational vehicle for more than 90 days
consecutively, nor shall such space be rented or leased to any one individual
for a period longer than 90 days in any one calendar year.
         (h)   Storage areas. Recreational vehicles may be stored where
permitted, but not used for permanent living quarters.
         (i)   Sales lots. Recreational vehicles may be stored, displayed, sold
and serviced, but not used for living quarters, in a sales lot in an
appropriate zoning district when such use is a permitted or a conditional use.
         (j)   Within mobile home parks. Recreational vehicles may be
accommodated in an approved and licensed mobile home park; provided, that:
            1.   The recreational vehicle park portion of the development is
separated by barriers, screens or otherwise from the area of mobile homes;
            2.   The recreational vehicle use area shall have direct access to
a collector or arterial street; and
            3.   Separate ingress and egress shall be provided for recreational
vehicles when required by the Planning Commission.
         (k)   Location of developments. Recreational vehicle parks may be
approved by the governing body in locations permitting such use in this
chapter. Before such approval is given, a report to the governing body by the
Planning Commission shall find that the proposed development will:
            1.   Be placed on a parcel of land of not less than five acres, or
within a mobile home park, unless modified by a planned unit development plan;
and
            2.   Before first occupancy, have at least 25 spaces completed (ten
if in a mobile home park), or an approved schedule of financing, construction
and phase completion and approved security, to ensure compliance.
      (6)   Additional requirements for mobile home subdivisions. In addition
to the requirements for mobile home subdivisions outlined herein, mobile home
subdivisions shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   Locations. Mobile home subdivisions may be approved by the
governing body in locations permitting such use in this code. Before such
approval may be granted, a report to the governing body by the Planning
Commission shall find that the proposed development will:
            1.   Be located on a parcel of land containing not less than five
acres;
            2.   Contain lots with a minimum net area of 5,000 square feet and
a minimum width of 50 feet; and
            3.   Be organized in a homeowners’ association, if required by the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   Security compound. The Planning Commission may require a
security compound for the storage of vehicles, boats and other large items, to
be provided equivalent to a minimum of 300 square feet of paved area per mobile
home lot, to be maintained by a homeowners’ association in the mobile home
subdivision.
         (c)   Skirting. Each mobile home shall be skirted or shielded within
45 days of occupancy. If shields are used, they are to be fireproof and
painted, or otherwise preserved.
         (d)   Street width. Street widths shall be as required by the
development regulations, except as may be modified by an approved planned unit
development plan.
         (e)   Term of rental. No mobile home in a mobile home subdivision
shall be rented or leased for a period of less than 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-6)
   (G)   Landfills and land excavations.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. This division (G) is adopted to promote public
safety and the general public welfare; to protect property against loss from
erosion, earth movement and flooding; to maintain a superior community
environment; to provide for the continued orderly growth of the county; and to
ensure the maximum preservation of the natural scenic character of major
portions of the county by establishing minimum standards and requirements
relating to land grading, excavations and fills and procedures by which these
standards and requirements may be enforced. It is intended that this division
(G) be administered with the foregoing purposes in mind and specifically in an
attempt to:
         (a)   Ensure that the development of each site occurs in a manner
harmonious with adjacent lands so as to minimize problems of drainage, erosion,
earth movement and similar hazards;
         (b)   Ensure the public lands and places, watercourses, streets and
all other lands in the county are protected from erosion, earth movement or
drainage hazards;
         (c)   Ensure that the planning, design and construction of all
development will be done in a manner which provides maximum safety and human
enjoyment and except where specifically intended otherwise, makes such
construction as unobtrusive in the natural terrain as possible; and
         (d)   Ensure, insofar as practicable, the maximum retention of natural
vegetation to aid in protection against erosion, earth movement and other
hazards and to aid in preservation of the natural scenic qualities of the
county.
      (2)   Permit required; exceptions.
         (a)   No person shall commence or perform any grading or excavation,
including those in gravel pits and rock quarries, in excess of the limits
specified below without first obtaining a conditional use permit for such
grading or excavation.
         (b)   In this division (G), all references to conditional use permit
shall mean a conditional use permit for grading or excavation. (See also the
Building Code.)
         (c)   A conditional use permit shall be required in all cases where
development comes under any one or more of the following provisions, unless
such work is otherwise exempted elsewhere in this section:
            1.   Excavation, fill or any combination thereof exceeding 1,000
cubic yards;
            2.   Fill exceeding five feet in vertical depth at its deepest
point measured from the adjacent undisturbed ground surface;
            3.   An excavation exceeding five feet in vertical depth at its
deepest point;
            4.   An excavation, fill or combination thereof exceeding an area
of one acre; and
            5.   Vegetation removal from an area in excess of one acre.
         (d)   A conditional use permit shall not be required in the following
cases:
            1.   Excavations below finished grade for which a building permit
is required and has been issued by the county, including, but not limited to,
the following:
               a.   Septic tanks and drainfields;
               b.   Tanks;
               c.   Vaults;
               d.   Tunnels;
               e.   Equipment basements;
               f.   Swimming pools;
               g.   Cellars; or
               h.   Footings for buildings or structures.
            2.   Excavation or removal of vegetation within property owned by
public utility companies or within public utility easements by public utility
companies;
            3.   Removal of vegetation as a part of the work authorized by an
approved building permit;
            4.   Tilling of soil or cutting of vegetation for agricultural or
fire protection purposes;
            5.   Commercial quarries operating with valid conditional use
permits and/or in appropriate Industrial Zones as provided for in this chapter;
            6.   Engineered interior fills or surcharge on the property with
respect to industrial development;
            7.   Items not covered by this section which are exempted from
required permits by this chapter and the Building Code of the county; and
            8.   Grading and/or excavation done pursuant to an approved final
subdivision plan.
      (3)   Responsibility. Failure of the county officials to observe or
recognize hazardous or unsightly conditions, or to recommend denial of the
conditional use permit, or of the Planning Commission to deny said permit,
shall not relieve the permittee from responsibility for the condition or
damages resulting therefrom.
      (4)   Retention of plans. Plans, specifications and reports for all
excavation conditional use permit applications submitted to the county for
approval shall be retained by the county for a minimum period of two years.
      (5)   Inspections.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator and Building Official, with assistance
from the County Engineer, shall make the inspections hereinafter required and
shall either approve that portion of the work completed or shall notify the
permittee wherein the same fails to comply with this section. Where it is found
by inspection that conditions are not substantially as stated or shown in the
conditional use permit application, the inspector may stop further work until
and unless approval is obtained for a revised grading plan conforming to the
existing conditions.
         (b)   Plans for grading work, bearing the stamp of approval of the
Planning Commission, shall be maintained at the site during the progress of the
grading. Until the final inspection is made, a card issued by the county
indicating permission to grade has been granted shall be prominently displayed
near the front property line of the property involved so as to be visible from
the street on which the property fronts.
         (c)   In order to obtain inspections, the permittee shall notify the
county at least 24 hours before said inspection is to be made.
         (d)   Inspections shall be made.
            1.   Before commencement of grading operations and after required
construction stakes have been set;
            2.   When all rough grading has been completed; and
            3.   When all work, including installation of all drainage and
other structures and required planting has been completed.
      (6)   Standards and specific requirements.
         (a)   Applicability. All grading and excavation shall comply with the
requirements set forth in this section in addition to other requirements of
this chapter.
         (b)   Hours and days of operation.
            1.   All grading and excavation in or contiguous to residential
neighborhoods shall be carried on between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
The Zoning Administrator may waive this requirement if it is shown that
restricting the hours of operation would unduly interfere with the development
of the property and it is shown that other properties or neighborhood values
would not be adversely affected.
            2.   All grading and excavation in or contiguous to residential
neighborhoods shall be carried on only Monday through Friday during the week.
         (c)   Dust and dirt control. All graded or disturbed surfaces of
excavations, and all equipment materials and roadways on the site shall be
dampened or suitably treated, managed or contained to prevent the deposit of
debris, dust or dirt on neighboring streets and properties; all materials
transported to or from the site shall be so contained during transportation as
to prevent spillage on streets or other property outside of the site.
         (d)   Slopes. The Zoning Administrator may require the percent of
slope of a cut or fill to be reduced if it is found that the cut or fill is
subject to unusual or excessive erosion, or if other conditions make such
requirements necessary for stability. The Zoning Administrator may permit
steeper slopes where the material being cut is unusually stable.
         (e)   Fill material. All fill, except in publicly approved refuse
disposal or other landfill operations, shall be earth, rock or other inert
materials free from organic material and free of metal, and except that topsoil
spread on cut and fill surfaces may incorporate humus for desirable moisture
retention and plant growth properties.
         (f)   Drainage. Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent any
surface waters from damaging the cut face of an excavation or any portion of a
fill. All drainageways and structures shall carry surface waters without
producing erosion to the nearest practical street, storm drain or natural
watercourse acceptable to the County Engineer as a safe place to deposit and
receive such waters. The County Engineer may require such drainage structures
to be constructed or installed as necessary to prevent erosion damage or to
prevent saturation of the fill or material behind cut slopes.
         (g)   Finished cuts and slopes. The exposed or finished cuts or slopes
of any fill or excavation shall be smoothly graded. All exposed slopes of any
cut or fill shall be protected by approved planting, crib walls or walls and
planting, terracing or combination thereof.
         (h)   Backfilling. Any pipe trench or other trenching or excavation
made in any slope of any excavation or filled site shall be backfilled and
compacted to the level of the surrounding grade.
         (i)   Compaction of fills. Unless otherwise directed by the Zoning
Administrator, all fills governed by this chapter intended to support
buildings, structures or where otherwise required to be compacted for
stability, shall be compacted, inspected and tested in accordance with the
following provisions:
            1.   The natural ground surface shall be prepared by removal of
topsoil and vegetation and, if necessary, shall be graded to a series of
terraces;
            2.   The fill shall be spread in a series of layers, each not
exceeding six inches in thickness, and shall be compacted by “sheepsfoot”
roller compactor (after each layer is spread) or other method acceptable to the
County Engineer;
            3.   The moisture content of the fill material shall be controlled
at the time of spreading and compaction to obtain required maximum density;
            4.   The fill material after compaction shall have an average dry
density of not less than 95% of maximum dry density and a minimum of 90% in all
portions of the fill requiring compaction as determined by the AASHO soil
compaction test method T99-57 or T180-57, or other testing method acceptable to
the County Engineer and Zoning Administrator;
            5.   A written report of the compaction, showing location and depth
of test holes, materials used, moisture conditions, recommended soil bearing
pressures and relative density obtained from all tests, prepared by a civil
engineer or soils engineer licensed by the state, shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator or County Engineer; and
            6.   The Zoning Administrator may require additional tests or
information if, in his or her opinion, the conditions or materials are such
that additional information is necessary and may modify or delete any of the
above listed requirements that in his or her opinion are unnecessary to further
the purpose of this chapter.
         (j)   Erosion control and landscaping. All cut and fill surfaces
created by grading, except for firebreak purposes, shall be planted with a
ground cover that is compatible with the natural ground covers in the county.
Topsoil is to be stockpiled during rough grading and used on cut and fill
slopes. When slopes too steep to support continuous ground cover have been
permitted and in lieu thereof niches and ledges provided for planting, such
slopes need not be planted with a continuous ground cover but may instead be
screened with vines and plantings. Cuts and fills along public roads may be
required to be landscaped so as to blend into the natural surroundings. All
plant materials must be approved by the Planning Commission prior to issuance
of a conditional use permit.
         (k)   Filling for agricultural and fire protection purposes. Filling
of the ground for agricultural or fire protection purposes shall be
accomplished with such practices as will prevent erosion and damage to natural
drainage channels.
         (l)   Final inspection.
            1.   If upon final inspection of any grading it is found that the
work authorized by the conditional use permit has been satisfactorily completed
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, and any other requirements
imposed, the Zoning Administrator shall so record in the record.
            2.   The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to revoke any
conditional use permit whenever it is found that the work covered by the
certificate has been materially extended or altered without prior approval, or
that any planting, retaining walls, cribbing, drainage structures or other
protective devices as shown on the approved plans and specifications submitted
with the application for a permit have not been maintained in good order and
repair.
            3.   Before such revocation, the Zoning Administrator shall first
give written notice to the owner of the property involved, specifying the
defective condition and stating that unless such defective condition is
remedied satisfactorily, the conditional use permit may be revoked. If the
defective condition is remedied to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Administrator, the certificate shall not be revoked.
         (m)   Special precautions. Special precautions shall be taken to
preserve life, property values, stable soils conditions and aesthetics,
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Requiring a more level exposed slope, construction of
additional drainage facilities, berms, terracing, compaction or cribbing,
installation of plant materials for erosion control, and reports of a
registered soils engineer and/or engineering geologist whose recommendation may
be made a requirement for further work. Such requirement by the Zoning
Administrator shall constitute a change order in the work; and
            2.   Where it appears that storm damage may result from work
performed hereunder, such work may be stopped and the permittee required to
take such measures as may be necessary to protect adjoining property or the
public safety. On large operations or where unusual site conditions prevail,
the Zoning Administrator may specify the time at which grading may proceed and
the time of completion or may require that the operation be conducted in
specific stages so as to ensure completion of protective measures or devices
prior to the advent of seasonal rains.
         (n)   Excavations. All excavations shall be limited as follows:
            1.   No cut slope shall exceed a vertical height of 100 feet unless
horizontal benches with a minimum width of 30 feet are installed at each 100
feet of vertical height. No excavation shall be made with a cut face steeper in
slope than two horizontal to one vertical;
            2.   The land use authority may permit the excavation to be made
with a cut face steeper in slope than two horizontal to one vertical if the
applicant can reasonably show that the material making up the slope of the
excavation and the underlying bedrock is capable of holding satisfactorily on a
steeper gradient. No slopes shall be cut steeper than the bedding planes, fault
or joint in any formation where the cut slope will lie on the dip side of the
strike line of the fracture, bedding plane, fault or joint. No slopes shall be
cut in an existing landslide, mudflow or other form of naturally unstable
slope, except as recommended by a qualified geological engineer after
conducting a site-specific geologic hazards study. Geologic hazards studies
shall meet the minimum requirements of §
155.230 of this code. Where the excavation is exposed straight above the top of
the cut which will permit the entry of water along bedding planes, this area
shall be sealed with a compacted soil blanket having a minimum thickness of two
feet. The soil for this blanket shall be relatively impervious and must be
approved for such use by the engineering geologist. If the material of the
slope is of such composition and character as to be unstable under the
anticipated maximum moisture content, the slope angle shall be reduced to a
stable value; and
            3.   No excavation for construction of new utility and telephone
lines shall be made in paved streets within five years after paving. During
said five-year period, tunneling under such streets may be authorized if
otherwise in compliance with this section, where to do so would facilitate
construction of new utility and telephone lines, or maintenance unless approved
by the County Engineer.
         (o)   Fills.
            1.   All fills shall be limited as follows: No fill slope shall
exceed a vertical height of 100 feet, unless horizontal benches with a minimum
width of 30 feet are installed at each 100 feet of vertical height.
            2.   The land use authority may permit a fill to be made which
creates an exposed surface steeper in slope than two horizontal to one vertical
if the applicant can reasonably show that the strength characteristics of the
material to be used in the fill are such as to produce an equivalent degree of
slope stability and sufficient strength characteristics to support the fill
within reasonable settlement values so as to produce an equivalent degree of
safety.
         (p)   Prohibited activities.
            1.   The provisions of this division (G) shall not be construed as
permitting the removal of topsoil solely for resale, or of permitting quarrying
of any site within the limits of the county, unless in a zoning district
allowing such activities.
            2.   This division (G) shall also not be construed as authorizing
any person to maintain a private or public nuisance upon his or her property,
and compliance with the provisions herein shall not be a defense in any action
to abate such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-7)
   (H)   Restricted lots. No building permits shall be issued for construction
of any building or structure to be located on a restricted lot or parcel,
unless the permit complies with all of the requirements pertaining to the
specific restrictions in place on the lot or parcel and the county’s
subdivision regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-8)
(Ord. 10-11, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 10-17,
passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 11-03, passed 3-1-2011; Ord. 12-04, passed 5-1-2012;
Ord. 14-08, passed 12-4-2014)
§ 155.367 RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY OR HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   (A)   Residential facilities for elderly persons.
      (1)   A residential facility for elderly persons may not operate as a
business.
      (2)   A residential facility for elderly persons shall:
         (a)   Be owned by one of the residents or by an immediate family
member of one of the residents, or by an eleemosynary, charitable or beneficial
organization, including a facility for which the title has been placed in trust
for a resident;
         (b)   Be consistent with existing zoning of the desired location;
         (c)   Be occupied on a 24 hour per day basis by eight or fewer elderly
persons in a family type arrangement; and
         (d)   Conform with applicable standards of the Department of Human
Services and be licensed and inspected by that department.
      (3)   A residential facility for elderly persons may not be considered a
business because a fee is charged for food or for actual and necessary costs of
operation and maintenance of the facility.
         (a)   The owner of a residential facility for elderly persons may not
charge residents administrative costs or salaries greater than 15% of that fee.
         (b)   A person charging a fee shall:
            1.   Keep a record of all expenses and costs related to the fee;
and
            2.   Make a record available for inspection by any resident of the
facility, the Department of Human Services and local Building Officials.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-1)
   (B)   Municipal ordinances governing elderly residential facilities.
      (1)   Each county shall adopt ordinances that establish that a
residential facility for elderly persons is a permitted use in any area where
residential dwellings are allowed, except an area zoned exclusively single-
family dwellings.
      (2)   The ordinances shall establish a permit process that may require
only that:
         (a)   The facility meets all applicable building, safety, zoning and
health ordinances applicable to similar dwellings;
         (b)   Adequate off-street parking space be provided;
         (c)   The facility be capable of use as a residential facility for
elderly persons without structural or landscaping alterations that would change
the structure’s residential character;
         (d)   No residential facility for elderly persons be established
within three-fourths mile of another residential facility for elderly persons
or residential facility for handicapped persons;
         (e)   No person being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse be placed
in a residential facility for elderly persons; and
         (f)   Placement in a residential facility for elderly persons be on a
strictly voluntary basis and not a part of, or in lieu of, confinement,
rehabilitation or treatment in a correctional facility.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-2)
   (C)   Approval of elderly residential facilities.
      (1)   Upon application for a permit to establish a residential facility
for elderly persons in any area where residential dwellings are allowed, except
an area zoned to permit exclusively single-family dwellings, the county may
decide only whether or not the residential facility for elderly persons conform
to ordinances adopted by the county under this section.
      (2)   If the county determines that the residential facility for elderly
persons complies with the ordinances, it shall grant the requested permit to
that facility.
      (3)   The use granted and permitted by this division (C) is
nontransferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than
a residential facility for elderly persons or if the structure fails to comply
with the ordinances adopted under this section.
      (4)   If a county has not adopted ordinances under this section at the
time an application for a permit to establish a residential facility for
elderly persons is made, the county shall grant the permit if it is established
that the criteria set forth in this section have been met by the facility.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-3)
   (D)   Elderly residential facilities in areas zoned exclusively for single-
family dwellings.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (D):
         (a)   No person who is being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse may
be placed in a residential facility for elderly persons; and
         (b)   Placement in a residential facility for elderly persons shall be
on a strictly voluntary basis and may not be a part of, or in lieu of,
confinement, rehabilitation or treatment in a correctional institution.
      (2)   Subject to granting of a conditional use permit, a residential
facility for elderly persons shall be allowed in any municipal zoning district
that is zoned to permit exclusively single-family use, if that facility:
         (a)   Conforms to all applicable Health, Safety, Zoning and Building
Codes;
         (b)   Is capable of use as a residential facility for elderly persons
without structural or landscaping alterations that would change the structure’s
residential character; and
         (c)   Conforms to the county’s criteria, adopted by ordinance,
governing the location of residential facilities for elderly persons in areas
zoned to permit exclusively single-family dwellings.
      (3)   A county may, by ordinance, provide that no residential facility
for elderly persons be established within three-fourths mile of another
existing residential facility for elderly persons or residential facility for
handicapped persons.
      (4)   The use granted and permitted by this division (D) is
nontransferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than
a residential facility for elderly persons, or if the structure fails to comply
with applicable Health, Safety and Building Codes.
      (5)   Municipal ordinances shall prohibit discrimination against elderly
persons and against residential facilities for elderly persons. The decision of
a county regarding the application for a permit by a residential facility for
elderly persons must be based on legitimate land use criteria and may not be
based on the age of the facility’s residents.
      (6)   The requirements of this division (D) that a residential facility
for elderly persons obtain a conditional use permit or other permit do not
apply if the facility meets the requirements of existing zoning ordinances that
allow a specified number of unrelated persons to live together.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-4)
   (E)   Residential facilities for handicapped persons.
      (1)   A residential facility for handicapped persons shall be consistent
with existing zoning of the desired location.
      (2)   A residential facility for handicapped persons shall:
         (a)   Be occupied on a 24-hour-per-day basis by eight or fewer
handicapped persons in a family type arrangement under the supervision of a
house family or manager;
         (b)   Conform with applicable standards of the Department of Human
Services; and
         (c)   Be operated by or operated under contract with that Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-5)
   (F)   Municipal ordinances governing handicapped residential facilities.
      (1)   Each county shall adopt ordinances that establish that a
residential facility for handicapped persons is a permitted use in any area
where residential dwellings are allowed, except an area zoned exclusively
single-family dwellings.
      (2)   The ordinances shall establish a permit process that may require
only that:
         (a)   The facility meets all applicable building, safety, zoning and
health ordinances applicable to similar dwellings;
         (b)   The operator of the facility provides assurances that the
residents of the facility will be properly supervised on a 24 hour basis;
         (c)   The operator of the facility establishes a municipal advisory
committee through which all complaints and concerns of neighbors may be
addressed;
         (d)   The operator of the facility provides adequate off-street
parking space;
         (e)   The facility is capable of use as a residential facility for
handicapped persons without structural or landscaping alterations that would
change the structure’s residential character;
         (f)   No residential facility for handicapped persons be established
within three- fourths mile of another residential facility for handicapped
persons;
         (g)   No person being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse be placed
in a residential facility for handicapped persons;
         (h)   No person who is violent be placed in a residential facility for
handicapped persons; and
         (i)   Placement in a residential facility for handicapped persons be
on a strictly voluntary basis and not a part of, or in lieu of, confinement,
rehabilitation or treatment in a correctional facility.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-6)
   (G)   Approval of handicapped residential facilities.
      (1)   Upon application for a permit to establish a residential facility
for handicapped persons in any area where residential dwellings are allowed,
except an area zoned to permit exclusively single-family dwellings, the county
may decide only whether or not the residential facility for handicapped persons
conforms to ordinances adopted by the county under this section.
      (2)   If the county determines that the residential facility for
handicapped persons complies with those ordinances, it shall grant the
requested permit to that facility.
      (3)   The use granted and permitted by this division (G) is
nontransferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than
a residential facility for handicapped persons or if the structure fails to
comply with the ordinances adopted under this section.
      (4)   If a county has not adopted ordinances under this section at the
time an application for a permit to establish a residential facility for
handicapped persons is made, the county shall grant the permit if it is
established that the criteria set forth in this section have been met by the
facility.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-7)
   (H)   Handicapped residential facilities in areas zoned exclusively for
single-family dwellings.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (H):
         (a)   No person who is being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse may
be placed in a residential facility for handicapped persons;
         (b)   No person who is violent may be placed in a residential facility
for handicapped persons; and
         (c)   Placement in a residential facility for handicapped persons
shall be on a strictly voluntary basis and may not be a part of, or in lieu of,
confinement, rehabilitation or treatment in a correctional institution.
      (2)   Subject to granting of a conditional use permit, a residential
facility for handicapped persons shall be allowed in any municipal zoning
district that is zoned to permit exclusively single-family dwelling use, if
that facility:
         (a)   Conforms to all applicable Health, Safety, Zoning and Building
Codes;
         (b)   Is capable of use as a residential facility for handicapped
persons without structural or landscaping alterations that would change the
structure’s residential character; and
         (c)   Conforms to the county’s criteria, adopted by ordinance,
governing residential facilities for handicapped persons in areas zoned to
permit exclusively single-family dwellings.
      (3)   A county may, by ordinance, provide that no residential facility
for handicapped persons be established within three-fourths mile of another
existing residential facility for handicapped persons.
      (4)   The use granted and permitted by this division (H) is
nontransferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than
a residential facility for handicapped persons, or if the structure fails to
comply with applicable Health, Safety and Building Codes.
      (5)   Municipal ordinances shall prohibit discrimination against
handicapped persons and against residential facilities for handicapped persons.
The decision of a county regarding the application for a permit by a
residential facility for handicapped persons must be based on legitimate land
use criteria and may not be based on the handicapped conditions of the
facility’s residents.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-8)
§ 155.368 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this section to regulate signs and to
authorize the use of signs that are compatible with their surroundings, are
legible under the circumstances in which they are seen, are effective in
indexing the environment and are conducive to promoting traffic safety and the
convenience and enjoyment of public travel by preventing visual distraction;
protecting pedestrians; attracting tourists to the town; preserving and
enhancing property values; establishing first-class Business and Commercial
Districts; and eliminating fire hazards.
      (2)   It is also the intention and purpose of this section to promote
short- and long-term civic beauty and order by establishing standards and
regulation for sign design, location, size, type, compatibility and aesthetics.
By doing so it is hoped this section will help to create streetscapes that are
functional and attractive to both residents of the county, as well as visitors.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-1)
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   The intent is to regulate the design and placement of commercial
and governmental identification/communication devices and structures that are
built specifically to identify, inform and direct patrons to a particular
merchant, store, establishment or service. It is not the intent of this section
to regulate the content of public speech.
      (2)   The regulations of this section are intended to apply to on-
premises signs, but do not apply to handheld placards and other similar devices
traditionally used for public protest and the exercise of free speech. Any
noncommercial message may be substituted for any commercial message permitted
under this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-2)
   (C)   Interpretation.
      (1)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this section, the
sign regulations contained herein are declared to be the maximum allowable for
the purposes set forth.
      (2)   If the community development staff determines that an application
needs further interpretation, he or she may request Planning Commission review
of the proposal.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-3)
   (D)   Enforcement. Any sign not expressly allowed by this section is
prohibited. The Zoning Administrator or authorized representatives shall be
vested with the duty of enforcing this section and in performance of such duty,
shall be empowered and directed to:
      (1)   Issue permits. To issue permits to construct, alter or repair signs
which conform to the provision of this chapter. The expiration date for such
permits shall be 180 days in conjunction with building permits;
      (2)   Determine conformance. To ascertain that all signs, construction
and all reconstructions or modification of existing signs are built or
constructed in conformance with this chapter by conducting:
         (a)   Initial inspection after construction. The Building Inspector,
under the direction of the Zoning Administrator, may make an initial inspection
upon the completion of construction, erection, reerection or remodeling of any
sign for which a permit has been issued and an inspection request is made. This
shall also include the inspection of temporary electrical signs; and
         (b)   Reinspection (if necessary). The Zoning Administrator or
authorized representative may make a reinspection of any sign for which a
permit was issued but which upon primary inspection was not built in complete
compliance with the regulations of this section.
      (3)   Legal action. The Zoning Administrator shall be empowered to
institute any appropriate action or proceeding in any case where any sign is
illegally erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or
maintained, or in any case where any sign is used in violation of any county
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-4)
   (E)   Prohibited sign devices. The following devices used to attract
pedestrian or vehicular attention are prohibited in any zone. Any sign not
specifically allowed in this section is also prohibited:
      (1)   Hot or cold air balloons, or inflatables, except as specifically
allowed by this section for temporary signs or as part of a grand opening
period or special promotion;
      (2)   Any sign which flashes, blinks, uses chaser lights or the like or
moves in any way, animate or inanimate. Subtle lighting changes of low
intensity are allowed;
      (3)   Statuary bearing the likeness or suggestion of any product or logo;
      (4)   Projecting sign;
      (5)   Roof sign;
      (6)   Wind sign;
      (7)   Temporary sign;
      (8)   Graffiti;
      (9)   Spotlights directed into the night sky, except as part of an
approved promotional period for temporary sign;
      (10)   Off-premises signs, except as specifically allowed herein; and
      (11)   Billboards.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-5)
   (F)   Signs allowed without permit.
      (1)   All zones generally. The following signs are allowed in any zone
(except on public property) district without the requirement of a sign permit:
         (a)   Directional or instructional signs. Signs which provide
direction or instruction and are located entirely on premises and which do not
in any way advertise a business shall not exceed four square feet in area or
four feet in height. These signs may identify restrooms, public telephones or
walkways; or shall provide direction such as parking lot entrance and exit
signs and those of a similar nature;
         (b)   No trespassing or no dumping signs. No trespassing or no dumping
signs may not exceed 16 square feet in area for a single sign or are limited to
four signs at four square feet for each lot, unless the Community Development
Director finds more signs are required to prevent violation;
         (c)   Plaques. Plaques or nameplate signs not more than two square
feet which are fastened directly to the building;
         (d)   Symbols or insignia. Religious symbols, commemorative plaques of
recognized historical agencies; or identification emblems of religious orders
or historical agencies; provided, that no such sign shall exceed eight square
feet in area; and provided further, that all such signs be placed flat against
the building;
         (e)   Neighborhood identification signs. In any zone district, a sign,
masonry wall, landscaping and other similar materials or features may be
combined to form a display for neighborhood identification; provided, that the
legend of such sign or display shall consist of only the neighborhood name and/
or address;
         (f)   Institutional uses. Churches, public schools, public utility
companies, libraries, governmental buildings, parks, public golf courses and
the like, are allowed one monument sign of 32 square feet. If the institution
has more than one frontage and is located on an arterial street, then an
additional sign of the same size is allowed;
         (g)   Flags. The flags, emblems or insignia of any nation or political
subdivision. Corporation flags may not exceed 12 square feet and may be flown
in tandem with the state or national flag. Large flags flown in high wind may
cause a noise nuisance and are subject to removal upon investigation;
         (h)   Public necessity signs. Signs installed by a unit of the
government for control of traffic and other regulatory purposes; including
street signs, hospital signs, directional or warning signs for public service
companies, utilities or institution, or signs erected by or on the order of a
public officer in the performance of his or her public duty;
         (i)   Memorial signs. Memorial signs or tablets with the names of
buildings and date of erection cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to
be part of the building;
         (j)   Notice bulletin boards. Notice bulletin boards not over 32
square feet in area for medical, public, charitable or religious institution;
where the same are located on the premises of such institution and are oriented
solely to the interior of the property and are not used to direct exterior
vehicular attention to any product or service of the institution;
         (k)   Holiday decorations. Noncommercial signs of a primary decorative
nature, clearly incidental and customary and commonly associated with any
nation, local or religious holiday. Such signs may be of any type, number or
area and shall be contained entirely within the boundaries of the lot or
premises on which they are erected and should be placed so as to avoid
confusion with authorized traffic lights and signals and shall conform to
traffic safety standards. They shall be removed within a reasonable period
after the holiday is over;
         (l)   Changing copy. The changing of the message on a permitted sign
that has an approved marquee, reader board, electronic message center or other
replaceable copy area;
         (m)   Political or campaign signs. In addition to signage otherwise
authorized by this section, political or campaign signs on behalf of candidates
for public office or measures on election ballots are allowed as follows:
            1.   Said signs for all candidates, regardless of participation in
a primary election, may not be erected earlier than 30 days prior to a primary
election and shall be removed by the Monday following a general election.
Candidates who lose a primary election shall remove signs by the Monday
following the primary election. Signs relating to elections on special issues
may be installed and must be removed on the same basis;
            2.   Any one sign shall not exceed 64 square feet in aggregate area
and, if freestanding, shall not exceed eight feet in height. Such sign shall
not be erected in a manner as to constitute a roof sign. Signs may not be
placed on public property, in a public right-of-way or in any place which would
impede traffic visibility or safety. Signs along unimproved roadways may not be
placed closer than ten feet to the edge of the paved surface; and
            3.   Campaign signs may not be placed closer than 150 feet to
buildings where any official voting station is located.
         (n)   Agricultural/ranch identifications signs. Signs naming or
identifying an individual farming or ranching property shall be permitted at
the entrance to said property without limitation to size or location; and
         (o)   Community signs. Community signs require review by the Community
Development Department, including recommendation of the County Engineer and/or
other pertinent county department, for compliance with the following criteria:
            1.   No sign shall be permitted which is unsafe for vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, is inappropriate with respect to location, size, time or
duration of display or is maintained in a deteriorated condition. Such sign:
               a.   Must be made of durable, weather resistant material;
               b.   Must use logos or symbols instead of copy where possible,
where copy would cause a distraction to vehicular traffic; and
               c.   May be located at various gateway areas to the county,
along major streets and important intersections adjacent to nonresidential
properties as approved by the Community Development Department.
            2.   Such signs shall be uniform in size for each individual
display and shall be no larger than four feet wide and ten feet tall for signs
attached to light or utility poles. Signs attached to a building may be larger
but must be appropriate in scale and location as approved by the Community
Development Department;
            3.   Freestanding community signs shall be allowed on parcels with
the permission of the owner and approval of the County Planner. The size of the
sign depends on the number of acres involved on the property according to the
following size and height standard:
 
Less than 5 acres 32 square feet
5 to 10 acres     64 square feet
10 to 20 acres    96 square feet
20 or more acres  128 square feet
Maximum height    15 feet
 
            4.   Such signs may not be attached to another temporary sign or a
permanent traffic or business sign;
            5.   Such signs may be part of a rotating permanent feature of the
county or community for such events as:
               a.   Fair days;
               b.   Holidays;
               c.   Cultural and/or arts events;
               d.   Changes in seasons; and
               e.   General community promotion; i.e., business, with the
prohibition of commercial endorsement or name on any such sign.
            6.   Such signs for any single purpose or event may not be
displayed for more than 30 days. However, the Community Development Department
may approve community purpose signs for long-term purposes subject to review on
a 90-day basis.
      (2)   Residential Zones. It is recognized that signs announcing the
location, availability or development of property are necessary. Restraint is
advised. The following shall apply:
         (a)   On-premises development identification signs.
            1.   Individual lots. One sign announcing the name of the
construction/development company is allowed. Area of the sign may not exceed 16
square feet nor six feet in height. The sign may not be erected more than five
days prior to the beginning of construction for which a valid building permit
has been issued. It must be removed before final occupancy;
            2.   Subdivisions. One development promotional sign may be placed
on the premises of each development having five or more lots or approved unit
sites in any Residential Zone. The size allowed for the sign depends on the
number of lots to be developed:
 
5 to 24 units (lots) 64 square feet
25 to 49 units       96 square feet
50 or more units     128 square feet
Maximum height       12 feet
 
            3.   Removal. Such signs shall be removed within five years of the
issuance of the first building permit in the project, or, if the lots are sold
out before five years, immediately upon sale of the last lot.
         (b)   On-premises real estate signs.
            1.   Signs advertising the sale, rent or lease of property shall be
limited to one real estate sign on each lot. Each such sign shall not exceed
six square feet in size and six feet in height;
            2.   One real estate sign per street frontage is allowed for any
multi-use residential or professional office building or lot intended for such
and may not exceed 32 square feet in area or eight feet in height. If the
parcel is over two acres in size, the sign may not exceed 64 square feet; and
            3.   Model home signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in area nor
exceed six feet in height and shall be placed entirely upon the premises of the
model.
         (c)   Temporary/open house real estate signs.
            1.   Open house signs shall not to exceed six square feet in area
and four feet in height, advertising real estate open for inspection may be
placed on private property in the vicinity of the property open for inspection.
They shall not be placed in the park strip. They shall not be attached to
trees, poles or street signs and the like; and
            2.   Open house signs shall be displayed only during those hours/
days which the house is open for actual inspection.
         (d)   On-premises signs for home occupations and home-based business
occupations in Residential Zones. Home occupations may need some form of
identification. Because of their nature and restrictions on the intensity of
use, they are not required to obtain a permit. Signs shall be limited to one
nonflashing sign not larger in area than six square feet. If lighted, the sign
shall be diffused or shielded.
      (3)   Commercial and Industrial Zones. It is recognized that signs
announcing the location, availability or development of property are necessary.
Because these are allowed with a permit, restraint is advised.
         (a)   On-premises development identification signs. Signs announcing
or identifying the future development of commercial or industrial property are
allowed one per public or private street frontage. The signs may not be erected
before the proposed development has been submitted for site plan review. They
must be removed before final inspection or before permanent signs are
installed. The size of the sign depends on the number of acres involved in the
project:
 
Less than 2 acres  32 square feet
2 to 5 acres       48 square feet
5 to 10 acres      64 square feet
10 to 20 acres     96 square feet
More than 20 acres 128 square feet
Maximum height     15 feet
 
         (b)   On-premises real estate signs.
            1.   One on-premises real estate sign advertising the sale of
property per street frontage is allowed for any commercial or industrial
planned center, building or lot intended for such, and may not exceed 32 square
feet in area or eight feet in height. If the parcel is over two acres in size,
the sign may not exceed 64 square feet. Individual pads or parcels within
centers are allowed their own sign, but it may not exceed 16 square feet or six
feet in height.
            2.   One on-premises sign advertising the availability of
commercial or industrial space, for lease or sale, for space within a multi-
tenant building or for a pad within the same center is allowed. The sign must
be securely attached to the vacancy in question. It may not exceed 24 square
feet in area.
         (c)   Other allowed signs.
            1.   Menu boards: Menu boards for drive-in restaurants are to be
reviewed and approved by the Community Development Department at site plan
review. The following shall apply although the Planning Commission may approve
them at different locations depending upon circumstances:
               a.   Only two menu boards are allowed per site and must be
located behind the front landscaped setback area; and
               b.   Maximum areas shall not exceed 35 square feet per sign and
six feet in height.
            2.   Gasoline price signs: One double faced sign per station. The
area of said sign may not exceed 16 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-6)
   (G)   Signs requiring a permit.
      (1)   Purpose; streetscape.
         (a)   The streetscape is the combination of vehicles, buildings,
signs, landscaping, roads, utility poles and the like, that dominate the view
of the driver or pedestrian. The streetscape tells residents and visitors how
the county as a whole feels about the environment, safety, aesthetics and its
sense of order, among other things. A useful, attractive and safe streetscape
is one that necessarily regulates the size, location and design of business
signs. Because a proliferation of poorly designed, oversized and
inappropriately located signs in commercial and industrial areas can be
detrimental to the achievement of effective, safe and attractive streetscapes,
it is important that the permanent signs in these areas receive approval
(permits) from the county.
         (b)   Commercial and industrial uses are generally more intensive than
those found in Residential Zones. Since these uses are designed by size,
location and style to attract attention and provide services to the public,
they generally need signage to achieve that end. Business signs of any kind in
residential neighborhoods can diminish the quality of life for which those
zones were specifically created. However, there may be some residential uses
which merit a sign, though much smaller and subdued than in Commercial or
Industrial Zones.
         (c)   Therefore, it is the intent and purpose of this division (G) to
outline regulations and design standards for signs in both commercial/
industrial and residential areas that will allow the business to identify
itself while allowing the county to create and maintain safe and aesthetically
pleasing streetscapes regardless of zone.
      (2)   Sign theme required. All multi-tenant centers/buildings must submit
a proposal for all on-premises signs to the Planning Commission for design and
placement approval. In cases for parcels of land of seven acres or larger, and
with frontage of 300 feet or more, a proposal for the overall design and
placement of all on-premises signs may be submitted. Such signs may vary from
the regulation set forth herein and shall be considered as a conditional use,
providing there is a determination that the proposed sign exceptions are not in
conflict with the purpose and intent of this section and are in architectural
harmony with uses adjacent to the development and with the understanding
existing signage may be required to be altered or removed.
      (3)   On-premises freestanding signs. The size and height of freestanding
signs are allowed as follows.
         (a)   Planned centers or parcels less than one acre: No freestanding
signs allowed. Only monument signs are allowed unless a conditional use permit
is issued by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   One acre or more: The Community Development Department may
approve one freestanding sign per street frontage. No freestanding sign shall
be allowed for any planned center or parcel that has less than 100 feet of
street frontage. Sign height may not exceed 25 feet. Signs must be at least 25
feet from the corner. Sign area may not exceed 50 square feet.
         (c)   Reader boards, changeable copy areas and electronic message
centers are allowed, but are discouraged. No such device shall exceed 50% of
the total sign copy area of the sign.
      (4)   Monument signs. The following standards shall apply.
         (a)   Monument signs are allowed for any size parcel; provided, that
the parcel has 30 feet of street frontage. The sign area allowed is 32 square
feet. Parcels with two street frontages are allowed a sign on each street.
However, the signs must be separated by at least 100 feet as measured
diagonally across the property from center to center of both signs, or only one
sign will be allowed. Signs within the clear view area of the corner are
prohibited.
         (b)   Reader boards (changeable copy areas) and electronic message
centers may be allowed; however, such devices shall not exceed 50% of the total
sign area.
      (5)   Wall signs. Wall signs should be the primary form of identification
for business uses in the county. Each business is entitled to one wall sign if
the following criteria are met.
         (a)   The sign may not occupy more than 15% of the flat wall area.
         (b)   Painted signs applied directly to the building face must have
specific approval of the Community Development Department.
         (c)   Wall signs with changeable copy, reader board or electronic
message capability are not allowed.
         (d)   Buildings or businesses with exposure on the sides and front may
choose which wall to mount their sign upon. Signs are allowed on the rear of
the building with Planning Commission approval.
         (e)   A sign on a third and fourth wall must be approved by the
Planning Commission.
         (f)   Owners of buildings that have small offices inside, accessory
and/or secondary to the main use, are required to create a building
identification sign instead of trying to obtain signage of every tenant. This
is especially true for buildings with two or more levels.
         (g)   Wall signs on sloping roofs shall be erected so as to appear as
a sign applied to similarly vertical wall surface and finished in such a manner
that the visual appearances from all sides is such that they appear to be part
of the building itself. All such signs shall be installed or erected in such a
manner that there is no visual support structure such as guy wires or braces.
         (h)   No part of any wall sign or of the sign structure shall project
above or below the highest or lowest part of the wall upon which the sign is
mounted or painted.
         (i)   No wall sign, including any light box or structural part, shall
project more than 18 inches from the face of the building to which it is
attached.
      (6)   Suspended signs. Suspended signs used in place of wall signs are
allowed if the architecture of the building or planned center lends itself to
that design and a sign theme is submitted and approved. The following shall
apply.
         (a)   The Community Development Department must review any proposal
for a suspended sign for compatibility with the building.
         (b)   Any sign may not exceed 15% of the flat wall of the tenant
space.
         (c)   No sign may project beyond the outside limit of the arcade,
marquee or canopy or facade to which they are attached.
         (d)   Any sign must have at least an eight-foot clearance above the
sidewalk or seven feet above any landscaped area.
         (e)   There must be a minimum horizontal distance of five feet on both
sides between suspended signs.
      (7)   Awning signs. Awning signs are allowed only under the following
circumstances.
         (a)   The Community Development Department may approve any applicant
for an awning sign which fully complies with sign standards.
         (b)   Awning signs in planned centers must be designed to conform to
an approved sign theme.
         (c)   No awning signs will be allowed on multi-tenant buildings or in
planned centers unless the building or center has consistent treatment.
         (d)   Awning signs shall be limited to single-story buildings or to
the first level only of multi-story buildings.
         (e)   Awning signs must function as true awnings by being placed over
a doorway, window or walkway to protect such from the elements.
         (f)   Awning signs are not allowed on or above sloping or mansard
roof.
         (g)   The area of awning signs shall be a maximum of 15% of the
primary wall upon which the sign is mounted. Awning signs for secondary walls
are limited to 5% of the wall area.
         (h)   Area of copy/logo on awnings shall be limited to 40% of the
awning. Illuminated signs on other sides of the building shall be permitted.
         (i)   Awning signs shall conform to the Building Code governing such
structures.
         (j)   Illuminated (backlit), translucent, vinyl awnings are not
permitted. Translucent letters or accents sewn into opaque canvas or acrylic
awnings are permitted.
         (k)   Awning signs shall not project out from the wall more than eight
feet, nor less than two feet. In the case of entrance canopies, the awning may
project out from the building over a walkway and must lead to a bona fide
business entrance. Such canopies will be permitted if they are compatible with
the architecture of the building.
         (l)   Awning signs shall not project above the “roofline,” defined as
the highest part of the vertical wall.
         (m)   Awning signs shall maintain a minimum clearance of seven feet to
the bottom of the valance and eight feet to the frame above the sidewalk and
comply with all other clearance requirements.
         (n)   Awning signs shall be maintained in a clean, safe and attractive
condition. Failure to do so will result in revocation of the sign permit.
      (8)   Canopies (gas stations). Signs for canopies over gas islands are
regulated as follows.
         (a)   Sign copy, corporate logos and the like, may be a maximum of 15%
of one face of the canopy.
         (b)   Up to three sides of the canopy may be used for signs.
         (c)   The height to the top of the canopy may not exceed 20 feet from
grade and no canopy fascia may exceed four feet in height.
         (d)   Individual letters, logos or symbols may not exceed four feet in
height or project out from the surface of the canopy more than 18 inches or
project above or below the canopy face.
         (e)   Gas price signs are allowed on the monument sign or below the
canopy over the pumps. One double faced sign for each type of fuel sold is
allowed per gas island with a maximum of four sets per station. Area of said
sign may not exceed four square feet each.
      (9)   Illumination.
         (a)   Sign illumination may be cast directly onto the face of the
sign; provided, that such illumination does not adversely affect pedestrian
and/or vehicular traffic. Whenever a sign face is illuminated by an external
source, light shall be concentrated on the sign face. The amount of light cast
to the areas other than the sign shall be reduced to the extent possible. All
external illumination sources shall be shielded from public view. On all
internally illuminated freestanding, wall mounted and projecting signs, light
shall be transmitted only through the material that comprise the letters
located within the display area. No interior light source shall be visible to
the exterior. No sign shall contain copy which consists of illuminated bulbs or
individual lights or light sources.
         (b)   Lighting for all exterior signs, whether lettering is internally
backlighted or light is cast onto the face of the sign, shall comply with the
lighting standards established herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-7)
   (H)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Standards for temporary signs. Temporary signs shall not be placed
in or over a public right-of-way, may not flash, blink, spin, rotate, block
traffic visibility, constitute a vehicular or pedestrian traffic hazard or
cause a public nuisance of any kind. They shall not be attached to telephone
poles, fences or trees. They must be firmly secured to the building or ground.
Temporary signs may be attached to existing permanent signs only for the grand
opening period. Temporary signs may cover or obscure an existing permanent sign
only if the business has changed hands or changed names. No off-premises
temporary signs are allowed, except those specifically noted and regulated for
real estate purposes or otherwise noted in this chapter.
      (2)   Temporary signs requiring a permit.
         (a)   Grand opening signs. Temporary signs announcing the initial
opening of a business, or the relocation, or change of ownership of an existing
business, may be allowed; provided, that the event shall not continue for more
than 60 days and that the permit is issued within the first year of operation.
There shall be no more than two signs allowed per business. A combination
banner and portable sign is acceptable. The signs must comply with general size
and location standards for signage in this section and must be removed at the
end of the 60-day period. A temporary sign permit is required. Note: “now
open,” “grand opening,” “new location of           ,” “new ownership” and the
like, are appropriate type messages for such signs.
         (b)   Special promotion periods. A business may apply for three
special promotion periods during the calendar year. Each period may not exceed
seven days in length. The periods may be combined to run consecutively. The
Planning Commission may issue a conditional use permit to extend this time
limit. A temporary sign permit is required. A banner or portable sign is
allowed during this period. Note: Special product, price or service advertising
is appropriate during these periods.
         (c)   Going out of business/bankruptcy period. A business may apply
for a special permit in order to facilitate the liquidation of inventory for a
failing business for a period not to exceed 90 calendar days. Such permit will
be allowed only once for any business license. A temporary sign permit is
required. A banner or portable sign is allowed during this period. Note:
Special product, price or service advertising are appropriate during these
periods.
      (3)   Temporary signs allowed without a permit.
         (a)   Holiday periods. A business may advertise a special service,
product or sale during the holiday periods without a permit. Note: One banner
sign only is allowed during these periods. The sign must be mounted on the
building. The sign must be removed by the end of the first working day after
the holiday period ends.
         (b)   Directional signs for subdivisions. These signs do not need a
permit. However, written permission of the property owner must be obtained and
presented to the Community Development Department before they are erected.
            1.   Three directional signs may be allowed for a developer to
guide traffic to the site and should contain only the name, address and
direction of the development. They are limited to 32 square feet in area and
eight feet in height and must be placed entirely upon private property with the
permission of the owner. Two additional 16 square foot directional signs may be
allowed by the Community Development Director if a special need or unusual
circumstance can be demonstrated. They may not encroach upon any public right-
of-way and may not be located within the 25-foot clear view triangle on
corners, except where they are not more than three feet in height.
            2.   Such signs shall be removed within two years of the issuance
of the first building permit in the project or, if the lots are sold out before
two years, immediately upon sale of the last lot. An extension may be granted
by the Community Development Department if a substantial number of the lots
have not been sold at the end of the two-year period.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-8)
   (I)   Sign permit process.
      (1)   Sign permit required. No person shall erect, install or paint any
sign, or change the face of any sign, whether it be temporary or permanent in
nature, without obtaining a sign permit from the Community Development
Department, except as outlined in this section. This includes new signs, signs
to be added to existing buildings or uses and existing signs that are to be
enlarged, changed or modified.
      (2)   Failure to obtain permit. New or existing signs installed or
maintained without a permit will be required to be removed or will be charged a
penalty fee of $100, or a double sign permit fee, whichever is greater, at the
time the owner/operator of the sign makes application for a sign permit with
the Community Development Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-9)
   (J)   Site plan review; sign design.
      (1)   Site plan review. When new buildings or developments are presented
for site plan review, signs proposed for the development shall be reviewed
concurrently by staff. All planned centers and multi-tenant buildings must
submit a sign theme for approval by the Planning Commission. The center must
have an approved sign theme before any sign permits will be issued. If a plan
for a sign package is not submitted at site plan review, which is encouraged,
the developer will be notified of sign ordinance standards and expected to
submit plans that will adhere to this chapter.
      (2)   Sign design.
         (a)   Applicants for sign permits should give serious consideration to
the following elements when submitting plans for signs:
            1.   Architectural compatibility;
            2.   Color and style;
            3.   Size, scale and proportion (balance);
            4.   Location; and
            5.   Landscaping.
         (b)   Note: The Community Development Director may refer an
application for a sign permit to the Planning Commission for further approval
or denial if the Community Development Director feels adherence to the criteria
listed in division (J)(2)(a) above is not shown in submitted plans.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-10)
   (K)   Required permit information.
      (1)   Monument and freestanding signs:
         (a)   Plot plan showing relationship of sign to buildings, property
lines, setback from public rights-of-way, intersections, easements and
driveways;
         (b)   Two accurately dimensioned, scaled drawings showing height,
color, square foot dimensions, landscaping, sign composition, type of
illumination and how the sign will appear from the street;
         (c)   Details of sign construction, including electrical plan,
foundation scheme and value of the sign; and
         (d)   Number of acres and length of linear frontage of property.
      (2)   Wall signs:
         (a)   Two scaled drawings showing square foot dimensions of both the
building and the sign, sign composition and type of illumination;
         (b)   A profile drawing of how the sign will appear from the street or
parking area and on the building; and
         (c)   Details of sign construction and attachment, including
electrical plan.
      (3)   Temporary signs:
         (a)   Plot plan showing relationship of sign to buildings, property
lines, setback from public rights-of-way, intersections, easements and
driveways; and
         (b)   Length of period for display, type of request.
      (4)   Additional information required:
         (a)   Proof of current county business license;
         (b)   Business address and phone number;
         (c)   Address of property owner and phone number;
         (d)   General or electrical contractor license, phone and address; and
         (e)   Value of the sign.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-11)
(Ord. 11-03, passed 3-1-2011)
§ 155.369 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Off-street parking required. At the time any building or structure is
erected or enlarged, or increased in capacity, or any use is established, there
shall be provided off-street parking spaces for automobiles in accordance with
the following requirements; nonetheless, sufficient parking shall be provided
off-street to avoid the necessity of parking on the street, except for certain
areas designated by the county where off-street parking requirements cannot be
met by past development and redevelopment and there are other programs in
effect to mitigate the parking problem; or as may be required and established
by conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-1)
   (B)   Size of parking space. The dimensions of each off-street parking
space, exclusive of access drives or aisles, shall be at least nine feet by 20
feet for diagonal and 90-degree spaces; nine feet by 22 feet for parallel
spaces, and the required size for accessible spaces.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-2)
   (C)   Access to individual parking space. Except for single-family and two-
family dwellings, direct access to each parking space shall be from a private
driveway and not from a public street. All parking spaces shall have
independent access not blocked by another parking space or other obstacle.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-3)
   (D)   Number of parking spaces required.
      (1)   Reductions in calculations. When calculating the floor area of a
building to establish parking requirements, reasonable reductions for hallways,
closets and storage space, restrooms, kitchens and mechanical equipment may be
deducted.
      (2)   Parking table.
                                                       1 parking space for each
Business or professional offices                       200 square feet of net
                                                       usable or leasable floor
                                                       area
                                                       1 parking space for each
                                                       3.5 fixed seats, or 1
Churches with fixed seating                            parking space for each 7
                                                       feet of linear pew,
                                                       whichever is greater
Churches without fixed seats, sports arenas,           1 parking space for each
auditoriums, theaters, assembly halls, meetings rooms  3 seats of maximum
                                                       seating capacity
Dwellings                                              2 parking spaces for
                                                       each dwelling unit
                                                       1 parking space for each
Furniture and appliance stores                         600 square feet of floor
                                                       area
                                                       2 parking spaces for
Hospitals and clinics                                  each bed, and/or
                                                       examining room
                                                       1 space for each living
                                                       or sleeping unit, plus
Hotels, motels, motor hotels                           parking space for all
                                                       accessory uses as herein
                                                       specified
Nursing homes                                          4 parking spaces, plus 1
                                                       space for each 5 beds
                                                       1 parking space for each
                                                       3.5 seats or 1 parking
Restaurants, taverns, private clubs and all other      space for each 100
similar dining and/or drinking establishments          square feet of floor
                                                       area, whichever is
                                                       greater
In addition, drive-in facilities shall provide stacking area for at least 6
cars in a drive-through lane
Retail stores, except as provided in the provision for 1 parking space for each
“furniture and appliance stores” of this table     100 square feet of
                                                       retail floor space
In addition, convenience stores which sell gasoline shall provide stacking area
for 6 cars in lanes serving the gas pumps, which stacking area may be
considered to help fulfill the basic parking requirements
                                                       1 parking space for each
                                                       150 square feet of total
                                                       floor space, or as
Shopping center or other groups of uses not listed     determined by
above                                                  conditional use permit,
                                                       but also including
                                                       accessible parking
                                                       spaces as required
                                                       As determined by
                                                       conditional use permit
                                                       or by planned unit
                                                       development
                                                       requirements, if
Wholesale establishments, warehouses, manufacturing    applicable, or by the
establishments and all industrial uses                 Planning Commission, but
                                                       in no case fewer than
                                                       one space for each
                                                       employee projected for
                                                       the highest employment
                                                       shift
                                                       As determined by
All other uses not listed above                        conditional use permit
                                                       based on the nearest
                                                       comparable use standards
 
      (3)   Sufficient parking required. Sufficient parking should be provided
to ensure:
         (a)   Maximum utilization of the facilities on site will not unduly
impose on neighbors’ rights in the vicinity;
         (b)   That in the future if there is a change of use that the parking
is adequately related to the site so that a new use has a reasonable chance to
provide satisfactory parking;
         (c)   Where the precise parking standards are not known or have proven
unsatisfactory in other instances that care is given in the analysis of the
parking requirements of the site and its proposed use to ensure a reasonable
number of parking spaces that cannot become an excuse for failure of the use on
the site to perform its function properly; and
         (d)   The intent of minimum parking requirements is that normal or
competitive functions are not to be curtailed due to lack of sufficient parking
and therefore the use or function of the principal user of the site fails or
otherwise deteriorates.
      (4)   Analysis. It shall be the responsibility of the reviewing body to
prepare its analysis of parking requirements in writing and make copies
available to the property owner or lessee, and other parties of interest, as
well as the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-4)
   (E)   Access requirements. Adequate ingress and egress to and from all uses
shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Residential lots. For each residential lot, not more than one
access driveway which shall be a maximum of 40 feet wide at the street lot
line, except lots with circular driveways and other special type circulation
and parking, unless required to have a circular driveway to avoid backing onto
the public right-of-way for safety purposes.
      (2)   Residential lots on major streets. Residential lots on major
streets shall have circular driveways, on lot turnarounds or other provisions
that facilitate vehicular traffic entering onto the public right-of-way in
forward motion and eliminating all backing onto the public street or highway.
      (3)   Other than residential lots. Access shall be provided to meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   Not more than two driveways shall be used for each 100 feet of
frontage on any street, and signs provided prohibiting any vehicle from backing
onto the street;
         (b)   No two of said driveways shall be closer to each other than 12
feet, and no driveway shall be closer to a side property line than three feet,
except as modified by conditional use permit;
         (c)   Each driveway shall be not more than 35 feet wide, measured at
right angles to the centerline of the driveway, except as increased by
permissible curb return radii, or as established by conditional use permit. The
entire flare of any return radius shall fall within the right-of-way;
         (d)   No driveway shall be closer than 50 feet to the point of
intersection of two property lines at any street corner as measured along the
property line, and no driveway shall extend across such extended property line;
and
         (e)   On a street where there are no curbs or gutters, all driveways
shall be well marked and protection provided the entire length of the frontage
exclusive of the driveways as per approved plans.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-5)
   (F)   Maintenance of parking lots in Multi-family Residential, Commercial
and Industrial Zones. Every parcel of land used as a public or private parking
lot in any multi-family residential, commercial or industrial development shall
be developed and maintained in accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Surfacing.
         (a)   Each off-street parking lot shall be surfaced with an asphaltic
or cement or other binder pavement and permanently maintained so as to provide
a dustless surface.
         (b)   The parking area shall be so graded as to dispose of all surface
water.
         (c)   If such water is to be carried to adjacent streets, it shall be
piped under sidewalks.
      (2)   Screening and fencing. The screening and fencing of a public or
private parking lot in any multi-family residential, commercial or industrial
development shall be in accordance with §
155.345 of this code.
      (3)   Landscaping. Each parking lot shall be adequately landscaped to
comply with a plan approved by the land use authority and such landscaping
shall be permanently maintained.
      (4)   Lighting. Lighting used to illuminate any parking lot shall be
arranged to reflect the light away from adjoining residential premises and from
street traffic.
      (5)   Prior existing parking lots. Parking lots created with other than
an asphaltic or cement surface or other binder pavement prior to October 2012,
may be maintained with the original paving surface.
      (6)   Expansion of existing parking lots. Whenever an existing parking
lot created and surfaced with other than an asphaltic or cement surface or
other binder pavement prior to October 2012, is expanded or is required to be
expanded because of changes of use or additional parking needs, the entire
parking lot must be brought up to the surfacing standards required in division
(F)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-6)
   (G)   Location of off-street parking. Off-street parking shall not be
allowed in required front yard setbacks, except by conditional use permit and
then only in areas where the character of the street and general landscaping
plan will not be adversely affected.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-7)
(Ord. 12-13, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 155.370 WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted by reference. That certain document, three copies of
which are on file in the office of the County Clerk, being marked and
designated as the state’s Wildland Urban Interface Code, 2006 edition,
including appendix chapters as published by the International Code Council, be
and is hereby adopted as the Urban Wildland Interface Code of the county for
regulating and governing the mitigation of hazard to life and property from the
intrusion of fire from wildland exposures, fire from adjacent structures and
prevention of structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels, as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Wildland Urban Interface Code on file in the
office of the County Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   Changes. Insert “Morgan County” in § 101.1.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-1)
§ 155.371 SURVEYS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is enacted to provide a method for preserving
evidence of land surveys by establishing standards and procedures for
monumenting and for filing a public record of the surveys.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOUNDARY MONUMENT. Any physical object, regardless of type of material or
marking, intended to represent a property corner or line, whether it be at the
corner, on the line or a recorded distance from the corner or line.
      LAND SURVEYOR. A person who is qualified to practice land surveying by
reason of special knowledge of the technique of measuring land, the basic
principles of mathematics, the related physical and applied sciences, the
relevant requirements of law for adequate evidence, and the requisites to
surveying of real property, and who is licensed pursuant to UCA §§ 58-22-101 et
seq., as amended, or who qualifies under one of the nonlicensing exceptions of
UCA §§ 58-22-101 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-2)
   (C)   Filing of plats.
      (1)   Surveys.
         (a)   Any land surveyor making a survey of private lands within the
county who establishes or reestablishes any private property boundary monument
shall file a map of the survey that meets the requirements of this division (C)
with the County Surveyor or his or her duly appointed agent within 90 days of
the establishment of the boundary monument.
         (b)   The County Surveyor shall file and index the map of the survey.
         (c)   The map shall be a public record in the office of the County
Surveyor.
      (2)   Information on map. This map shall show:
         (a)   The location by quarter section or lot number, section number,
township and range;
         (b)   The date of the survey, meaning the date the monuments were
placed;
         (c)   The scale at which it is drawn and a north arrow. When viewing
the plat with the long dimension in a horizontal position, north or east must
be to the top of the plat;
         (d)   The distance and bearing of all lines traced or established by
the survey. If such a line is a curve, the radius, arc length and central angle
must be shown. If the curve is not tangent to straight lines at the point of
curvature, the chord bearing must be shown as well;
         (e)   The basis of bearings for the survey. The words “basis of
bearing” must be shown on the plat between two existing, described government
monuments. The government monuments may be section corners, city or county
street monuments, or horizontal network stations maintained by a government
agency. The county-state plane grid bearing must be used where it is readily
available;
         (f)   A measurable mathematical relationship between the property and
the monument from which it is described. If that monument is not in place, its
mathematical location must be shown as well as a mathematical relationship to a
monument in place;
         (g)   All measured bearings or distances separately indicated from
those of record if not in agreement;
         (h)   A written boundary description of the property surveyed;
         (i)   The mathematical relationship between all monuments found or
set;
         (j)   A detailed description of all monuments found or set including
type, size, length and how marked;
         (k)   The name of the person purchasing the surveying service;
         (l)   The seal or stamp and signature of the registered land surveyor
responsible for the survey; and
         (m)   The surveyor’s business name and address.
      (3)   Contents of map. The map shall contain:
         (a)   A written narrative that explains and identifies:
            1.   The purpose of the survey;
            2.   The basis on which lines were established. The surveyor should
explain what decisions he or she made in formulating the boundary such as the
basis of bearing for the description or the use of any proration methods; and
            3.   The found monuments or deed elements that controlled the
established or reestablished lines. If the description calls for any monuments
in the broad sense of the term (right-of-way lines, subdivision of boundaries,
fences and the like) the surveyor should indicate what he or she found relating
to these calls.
         (b)   If the narrative is separate document, it shall also contain:
            1.   Location by quarter section or lot number, section number,
township and range;
            2.   Date of survey;
            3.   Surveyor’s stamp or seal and signature; and
            4.   Surveyor’s business name and address.
         (c)   The map and narrative shall be referenced to each other if they
are separate documents.
      (4)   Filing maps. Maps shall be filed:
         (a)   On linen or Mylar at one of two sizes: 18 inches by 24 inches by
36 inches; and
         (b)   Separate narratives shall be filed on eight and one-half inch by
11-inch linen or Mylar.
      (5)   Monument standards.
         (a)   The minimum standard for a boundary monument shall be number 5
rebar 24 inches in length. Where ground conditions do not permit such
monumentation, substitute monuments must be durably and visibly marked or
tagged with the registered business name or the letters LS, followed by the
registration number of the surveyor in charge.
         (b)   If the monument is set by a public officer, it shall be marked
with the official title of the officer.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-3)
   (D)   Fees. The County Surveyor shall collect a filing fee, in such amount
as established by resolution of the County Commission, to cover administration
costs.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-4)
§ 155.372 MAILBOX STANDARDS.
   (A)   The county hereby adopts the state’s Department of Transportation’s
standard drawings no. 725-1 and 725-1a to specify standards for the
construction and placement of mailboxes in the public way. Said drawings are
attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the county office as
exhibits A and B.
   (B)   Mailboxes erected behind concrete curbs in approved subdivisions are
exempt from the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   All mailboxes shall have house numbers printed thereon no less than
two inches high.
(Prior Code, § 8-17-1)
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 155.385 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Morgan County Subdivision Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 8-12-1) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.386 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter and any rules, regulations, standards and
specifications hereafter adopted pursuant hereto or in conjunction herewith
are:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare;
   (B)   To regulate future growth and development within the unincorporated
county in a manner which promotes the physical integration of diverse housing
forms, the preservation of the county community values and the social
integration of residents from diverse backgrounds in accordance with the
General Plan; and to promote the efficient and orderly growth of the county;
   (C)   To provide procedures and standards for the physical development of
subdivisions of land and construction of buildings and improvements thereon
within the county including, but not limited to, the construction and
installation of roads, streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, parks, trails and
open spaces, drainage systems, water systems, sanitary sewer systems,
addressing geologic hazards, streetlights, design standards for public
facilities and utilities, access to public rights-of-way, dedication of land
and streets, granting easements or rights-of-way and to establish fees and
other charges for the authorizing of a subdivision and for the development of
land and improvements thereon;
   (D)   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy, to secure safety from
fire, flood and other dangers and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
congestion of population; and
   (E)   To provide for harmonious and coordinated development of the county,
and to assure sites suitable for building purposes and human habitation.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-2) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.387 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this subchapter
shall be considered as minimum requirements for the purposes set forth. Where
the provisions of this subchapter impose greater restrictions than any statute,
other regulation, ordinance or covenant, the provisions of this subchapter
shall prevail. Where the provisions of any statute, other regulation, ordinance
or covenant impose greater restrictions than the provisions of this subchapter,
the provisions of such statute, other regulation, ordinance or covenant shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-3) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.388 DEFINITIONS.
   Please refer to §§
155.008 and
155.365 of this code for definitions.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-4) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.389 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   The General Plan shall guide the use and future development of land
within the unincorporated lands of the county through the establishment of
zoning and other land use regulations. The size and design of lots, the nature
of utilities, the design and improvement of streets, the type, density and
intensity of land use and the provisions for any improvements in any
subdivision shall conform to the zoning map and the standards established in
the land use regulations and other applicable ordinances.
   (B)   Trees, native land cover, natural watercourses and topography shall be
preserved where possible. Subdivisions shall be so designed as to prevent
excessive grading and scarring of the landscape and address any geologic
hazards on or that affect the site in conformance with §
155.220 through
155.237 of this code (geologic hazards). The design of new subdivisions shall
consider, and relate to, existing street widths, alignments and names.
   (C)   Community facilities, such as parks, recreation areas, trails and
transportation facilities shall be provided in the subdivision in accordance
with applicable recommendations of the General Plan, this chapter and other
applicable ordinances. This chapter establishes procedures for the referral of
information on proposed subdivisions to interested boards, bureaus and other
governmental agencies and utility companies, both private and public, so that
the extension of community facilities and utilities may be accomplished in an
orderly manner, coordinated with the development of this subdivision. In order
to facilitate the acquisition of land areas required to implement this policy,
the subdivider may be required to dedicate, grant easements over or otherwise
reserve land for, parks, playgrounds, public ways, utility easements and other
public purposes, where there is an essential link between such dedications, the
government interest to be served and the impact of the development on the
community, where each dedication is roughly proportional, in nature and extent,
to the impact of the development on the community and where such dedications
are in accordance with adopted plans of the county or specific ordinances
relative to said improvements.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-5) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.390 GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall prepare concept plans and plats consistent with
the standards contained herein and shall pay for the design, county review,
construction and inspection of the improvements required. The county shall
process said plans and plats in accordance with the regulations set forth
herein. The subdivider shall not alter the terrain or remove any vegetation
from the proposed subdivision site or engage in any site development until the
subdivider has obtained the necessary approvals as described in this chapter.
The subdivider is responsible to obtain and be familiar with all applicable
subdivision ordinances, grading and excavation regulations and all rules and
standards of the county.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the plans and plats for design;
for conformity to the applicable requirements of the General Plan and to the
Land Use Management Code and shall process the subdivision plats and reports as
provided for in this chapter.
   (C)   Plats and/or plans of proposed subdivisions may be referred by the
Zoning Administrator to the county departments and staff, including the
county’s development or Technical Review Committee, the County Engineer, County
Surveyor and special districts, governmental boards, bureaus, utility companies
and other agencies which will provide public and private facilities and
services to the subdivision for their information and comment. The Zoning
Administrator is responsible for coordinating any comments received from public
and private entities and shall decide to which agencies to refer proposed
subdivision plats and plans.
   (D)   The County Engineer shall review, for compliance, the engineering
plans and specifications for the county-required improvements for the
subdivision and whether the required improvements proposed are consistent with
this chapter, county design and construction standards and other applicable
ordinances and shall be responsible for inspecting the county-required
improvements and the administration of improvement guarantees. Street layout
and overall circulation shall be coordinated with transportation planning
objectives by the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   The County Surveyor shall review and make comments on the accuracy of
the plat, plat boundary, survey monument placement, easement documentation and
any other issues related to survey control and drawing accuracy.
   (F)   The County Geologist shall review and make comments on the plans and
specifications for the geologic hazard study requirements, as required, and any
other issues related to §§
155.220 through
155.237 of this code.
   (G)   The county’s Planning Commission shall act as an advisory agency to
the County Commission. It is charged with making investigations, reports and
recommendations on proposed subdivisions as to their conformance to the General
Plan and Land Use Management Code and other pertinent documents. After
determining that a referred plat or plan complies with applicable requirements,
the Planning Commission shall recommend approval, approval with conditions or
disapproval of the plat or plan to the County Commission.
   (H)   The County Attorney shall verify that the financial security provided
by the subdivider is acceptable, that the subdivider dedicating land for use of
the public is the owner of record, that the land is free and clear of
unacceptable encumbrances according to the title report submitted by the
subdivider, and may review matters of title, such as easements and restrictive
covenants.
   (I)   The County Commission has final jurisdiction in the approval of
subdivision plats, unless otherwise delegated by this chapter, the
establishment of requirements and design standards for required improvements,
and the acceptance of lands and required improvements that may be proposed for
dedication to the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-6) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.391 ACCURATE INFORMATION.
   All documents, plans, reports, studies and information provided to the
county by the applicant in accordance with the requirements of this chapter
shall be accurate and complete. Any action taken or approval given by the
county based upon incomplete or inaccurate documents, plans, reports, studies
or information supplied to the county by the applicant may be voidable. All
engineering drawings, plats, reports and other similar documents shall be
stamped, signed and dated by a state-licensed professional engineer.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-7) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.392 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to subdivide any tract or parcel
of land which is located within the county except in compliance with this
chapter. No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded until it has been
submitted and approved as herein. A plat shall not be approved if the County
Commission determines such plat to be inconsistent with master traffic and
transportation plan, land use ordinance, this code or any other state law or
county ordinance.
   (B)   Land or lots within a proposed subdivision shall not be transferred,
offered for sale or sold until a final plat of a subdivision has been recorded
in accordance with this chapter and any applicable provisions of state law.
Construction of any required improvements shall not be commenced until the
improvements required in connection with the subdivision have been guaranteed
as provided herein. Construction of any improvements related to the
subdivision, including any land disturbance and/or grading, shall not be
commenced until the final plat is recorded, a preconstruction meeting has been
held and a grading or excavation permit has been issued for the project.
Building permits shall not be issued until all required improvements related to
the final subdivision have been completed, been accepted by the County Engineer
as completed, the warranty period has begun and have also received written
approval of from the applicable water company and the sewer district, if these
utility agencies are serving the subdivision. No building permit depending on
public or private water (potable), and sewer, energy facilities or fire
protection shall be permitted to be issued until such facilities are fully
provided and operational as determined by the county’s Building Official and
other departments of the county.
   (C)   All lots, plots or tracts of land located within a subdivision shall
be subject to this chapter whether the tract is owned by the subdivider or a
subsequent purchaser, transferee, devisee or contract purchaser of the land or
any other person.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to receive a building permit to
construct a building or structure on a parcel or tract of land in a subdivision
until, within the immediate vicinity of the requested permitted construction
and approved phase, including at the lot in question:
      (1)   All underground utilities located under the street surface are
installed and accepted by the county and appropriate agencies;
      (2)   Continuous access to the lot through the subdivision is provided by
a street, acceptable to the county, with an all-weather hot mix asphalt or
Portland cement concrete surface;
      (3)   Adequate fire protection is established by fire hydrants which are
fully operational and tested in the area of the subdivision where permits are
requested, if fire hydrants were required with the building and subdivision
approval, and all other fire protection mechanisms are in place, per the
requirements of this chapter, the adopted Fire Code and Wildland Urban
Interface Code. Verification that adequate fire protection is in place pursuant
to the adopted Fire Code and/or the conditions of approval required to provide
adequate fire protection shall be submitted in writing by the local Fire Code
Official;
      (4)   Culinary water is available to each proposed building location
through either: A well of sufficient capacity, defined by this subchapter,
which has been permitted, drilled, flowing and has received written approval
from the Weber/Morgan Health Department or the state’s Department of
Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water, as appropriate, which
indicates the final approval and acceptance of the completed well as a water
source; or an approved shared water system which has been approved for the
subdivision and is permitted, functioning, approved by the culinary water
approval authority or district, and has been issued an operating permit from
the Department of Environmental Quality Division of Drinking Water;
      (5)   All geologic hazard study requirements are completed for the entire
subdivision;
      (6)   Streetlights and street signs are installed, if required by the
county;
      (7)   A performance guarantee agreement, on a form approved by the
county, is executed to ensure the integrity of required improvements throughout
building construction, such as curb, gutter and sidewalk, in the immediate
vicinity of the lot where the building permit is requested. The performance
guarantee shall only be secured through the deposit of funds with the County
Treasurer in an amount required by the county’s fee schedule;
      (8)   No building inspections will be conducted by the county until a
trash receptacle has been located onto the site of a size and nature suitable
for containing all construction-related debris until the debris is removed from
the site; and
      (9)   No building inspections will be conducted by the county until a
sanitary toilet has been located onto the site for the use of construction
workers. In situations where a general contractor has more than one residential
dwelling unit simultaneously under construction in a subdivision plat, one
toilet shall be sufficient for every ten dwellings the contractor has under
construction.
   (E)   Until the subdivision is completed and accepted into the warranty
period by the County Engineer and all appropriate agencies, the subdivider
shall be responsible for the following:
      (1)   Maintaining roads in a manner that allows continuous access for
emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Maintaining roadways and drainage facilities free and clear of dirt
and debris which might obstruct water flow or quality of stormwater flows; and
      (3)   Maintaining continuous flow capacities to all hydrants in the
subdivision.
   (F)   All improvements must be done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The county’s design and construction standards;
      (2)   The subdivision improvement agreement between the subdivider and
the county; and
      (3)   All other applicable county ordinances and regulations.
   (G)   There shall be no occupancy of any building in any zone until an
occupancy permit has been issued. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any
subdivider to sell any portion of an approved subdivision until the prospective
buyer or builder has been advised that occupancy permits will not be issued
until all required improvements are completed. An occupancy permit will not be
issued until the following conditions are met at the lot where an occupancy
permit is requested, and all work is acceptable to the county and appropriate
agencies:
      (1)   All necessary and required utilities are installed; e.g., culinary
water lines, sanitary sewer facilities, flood control facilities, electric
power and natural gas lines;
      (2)   Finished road surfaces are installed;
      (3)   All Building and Fire Code requirements are met as confirmed by the
Building Official and Fire Code Official; and
      (4)   All county conditions of approval have been met.
   (H)   The property shall be free and clear from violations of the county’s
regulations regarding weed control at all times.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-8) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.393 EXEMPTION FROM PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Divisions of bona fide agricultural land are not included within the
definition of subdivision, pursuant to UCA §§ 17-27a-103(70)(c) et seq., as
amended. A lot or parcel resulting from the division of agricultural land is
exempt from the plat requirements if each resulting lot or parcel:
      (1)   Qualifies as land in agricultural use under UCA §§ 59-2-502 et
seq., as amended;
      (2)   Meets the following minimum size requirements within the zone in
which the lot or parcel is located:
         (a)   MU-160: 160 acres;
         (b)   F-1: 160 acres;
         (c)   A-20: 20 acres;
         (d)   RR-10: Ten acres;
         (e)   RR-5: Five acres;
         (f)   RR-1: Five acres;
         (g)   R1-20: Five acres;
         (h)   R1-12: Five acres;
         (i)   R1-8: Five acres;
         (j)   CB: Five acres;
         (k)   NC: Five acres;
         (l)   CS: Five acres;
         (m)   CH: Five acres;
         (n)   GC: Five acres;
         (o)   BP: Five acres;
         (p)   TPC: Five acres;
         (q)   MGC: Five acres;
         (r)   PC: Five acres;
         (s)   LM: Five acres; and
         (t)   I: Five acres.
      (3)   Is not used and will not be used for any nonagricultural purpose;
      (4)   The boundaries of each lot or parcel exempted under this division
of agricultural land exemption shall be graphically illustrated on a record of
survey map that, after receiving written approval from the Zoning Administrator
that the proposed division complies with this section, shall be recorded with
the County Recorder; and
      (5)   If a lot or parcel exempted under this division (A) is used for a
nonagricultural purpose, the county shall require the lot or parcel to comply
with the requirements of §§
155.385 through
155.450 of this code.
   (B)   A bona fide division or partition of land by deed or other instrument
where the County Commission expressly approves in writing the division in
anticipation of further land use approvals on the parcel or parcels.
   (C)   A bona fide division or partition of land for the purpose of siting,
on one or more of the resulting separate parcels:
      (1)   An electrical transmission line or a substation;
      (2)   A natural gas pipeline or a regulation station;
      (3)   An unmanned telecommunication, microwave, fiber optic, electrical
or other utility service regeneration, transformation, retransmission or
amplification facility;
      (4)   An unmanned community water system facility, storage tank or well
house; or
      (5)   Public facilities and public service facilities.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-9) (Ord. 15-06, passed 6-21-2015; Ord. 17-36, passed 12-19-
2017; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 155.394 REQUIRED CERTIFICATES, PERMITS AND REVIEWS.
   (A)   Application. Applications for each of the separate stages of
subdivision approval (concept plan, preliminary plat and final plat) shall be
made to the county’s Planning and Development Services Department. Applications
shall be made on the respective forms provided by the county and shall be
accompanied by the proper fee and by all the documents and information required
by this chapter and other applicable titles and ordinances of this code.
   (B)   Approval. Action on that application for a stage of a subdivision
approval shall be completed in a reasonable manner after the date of submittal
of all required information and items to the Planning and Development Services
Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-10) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.395 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any public hearing or meeting required herein shall be scheduled and
held by the county Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission or County
Commission, as designated. Required notice of such hearing or meeting shall be
given as provided for in §§
155.031 and
155.032 of this code. The applicant shall provide the county Planning and
Development Services Department with a list of all owners of real property
located within 1,000 feet of the boundary of the proposed subdivision, as
evidenced by the current records of the County Recorder’s office (if adjacent
properties fall outside of the county, the applicant shall be required to
obtain ownership information from the applicable county jurisdiction). The
applicant shall pay to the county a fee in the amount of the actual costs
incurred by the county in providing the notice and postage, including any
required noticing signs, and shall bear sole responsibility to ensure the
accuracy of the property owner list.
   (B)   If an application for subdivision approval is received that includes
any land located within 100 feet of the centerline of a canal, the land use
authority shall notify the canal company or canal owner pursuant to UCA § 17-
27a-211, if the canal company or owner has provided notification to the county
as required by state law by July 1, 2010.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-11) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.396 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   An owner of any land located in a subdivision, as defined in UCA § 17-
27a-103, who transfers or sells or offers for sale any land in that subdivision
before a plat of the subdivision has been approved and recorded violates this
subchapter for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.
   (B)   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or
other documents used in the process of selling or transferring does not exempt
the transaction from being a violation of division (A) above or from the
penalties or remedies provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this division (C), the
recording of an instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of
selling or transferring real property that violates this part:
      (1)   Does not affect the validity of the instrument or other document;
and
      (2)   Does not affect whether the property that is the subject of the
instrument or other document complies with applicable county ordinances on land
use and development.
   (D)   The county may bring an action against an owner to require the
property to conform to the provisions of this subchapter.
      (1)   An action under this division (D) may include an injunction,
abatement, merger of title or any other appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent, enjoin or abate the violation.
      (2)   The county need only establish the violation to obtain the
injunction.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-13) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.397 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal may be made to the County Commission from any decision,
determination or requirement of the Zoning Administrator regarding subdivision
or subdivision plat amendment approval or recommendation hereunder by filing
with the County Clerk a notice thereof in writing within 15 days after such
decision, determination or requirement is made. Such notice shall set forth in
detail the action and grounds upon which the subdivider or other person deems
himself or herself aggrieved.
   (B)   The County Clerk shall set the appeal for hearing before the County
Commission within a reasonable time after receipt of the appeal. Such hearing
may be continued by order of the County Commission. The appellant shall be
notified of the appeal hearing date at least seven days prior to the hearing.
After hearing the appeal, the County Commission may affirm, modify or reverse
the decision, determination or requirement appealed and enter any such orders
as are in harmony with the spirit and purpose of this chapter. The County
Commission shall notify the appellant in writing of its ruling. The filing of
an appeal shall stay all proceedings and actions in furtherance of the matter
appealed, pending a decision of the County Commission.
   (C)   An aggrieved party may appeal any decision of the County Commission in
applying the provisions of this subchapter to state’s district court as
provided in UCA § 17-27a-801, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-14) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.398 STAFF AUTHORITY.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter, the county
Zoning Administrator, the Planning and Development Services Director and all
other officers and employees of the county act in an advisory capacity to the
Planning Commission and the County Commission and have no authority to make
binding decisions or to make authoritative representations, approvals or
determinations, other than in a purely advisory and recommending capacity.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-15) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.399 CONCEPT PLAN.
   A concept plan shall be required for all subdivisions as provided in this
chapter. This provides the subdivider with an opportunity to consult with and
receive assistance from the county regarding the regulations and design
requirements applicable to the subdivision of property. The applicant or
applicant’s duly authorized and certified agent shall submit a complete
application to the county’s Planning and Development Services Department for
subdivision concept plan review, together with the appropriate application fee
as set forth in the county fee schedule. If a rezoning is needed to accomplish
a proposed concept plan, a rezoning application shall be submitted, reviewed
and approved by the County Commission prior to the concept plan application.
Acceptance of a concept plan does not constitute final subdivision approval or
vesting for a proposed subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-16) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.400 SUBMISSION.
   The subdivider shall submit a number and size of copies as determined by the
Zoning Administrator of the proposed subdivision concept plan to the county’s
Planning and Development Services Department. The proposed concept plan shall
be professionally prepared and include the following items:
   (A)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
   (B)   A vicinity plan showing significant natural and human-made features or
existing structures on the site and within 200 feet of any portion of the
property line; the property boundaries of the proposed subdivision; the names
of adjacent property owners; topographic contours at no greater interval than
five feet for a concept plan; and north arrow;
   (C)   A proposed lot and street layout, along with locations of existing
streets;
   (D)   Availability and location of utilities and drainage facilities,
existing and proposed, within the development and in the vicinity, which are
adjacent to the property:
      (1)   A statement addressing if the property is located within a water
district or sewer district or if it will be served by a well or septic system;
and
      (2)   A letter of intent from the service provider that states at a
minimum:
         (a)   Their ability to service the proposed development;
         (b)   The availability and location of the applicable utility,
existing and proposed, demonstrating that such utility is available to or may
be extended to the property; and
         (c)   The type of proposed system and facilities.
   (E)   A description of those portions of the property which are included as
flood zones in the most recent flood insurance rate maps prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA, https://msc.fema.gov);
   (F)   The total acreage of the entire tract proposed for subdivision;
   (G)   County plat map with aerial photo underlay, if available;
   (H)   Public and private easements located on the property;
   (I)   Location and description of existing vegetation;
   (J)   Soils and geologic unit information indicating soils and geologic unit
types and their boundaries, and any known geologic hazards using the latest
available information. See §
155.220 through
155.237 of this code (geologic hazards) for information sources;
   (K)   Delineation of any areas of slope which is greater than 25%;
   (L)   Electronic copies of all drawings in AutoCAD (DWG) format;
   (M)   A statement of proposed water source and sewage disposal method; and
   (N)   When the subdivision is located within the Sensitive Area District or
geologic hazard study area, required reports and documents are to be submitted
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and §§
155.220 through
155.237 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-17) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019; Ord. 20-11, passed 9-1-2020)
§ 155.401 DISTRIBUTION OF PLAN.
   The county’s Planning and Development Services Department, upon receipt of
the complete application for concept plan review, shall distribute copies of
the plan to such government departments and other agencies or advisors as, in
the opinion of the Department, may contribute to a decision in the best
interest of the public.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-18) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.402 REVIEW BY COUNTY STAFF OF CONCEPT PLAN.
   (A)   The county staff, contracted positions and selected consultants shall
review the submitted concept plan and check compliance of applicable sections
of the county’s General Plan, master traffic and transportation plan, land use
ordinance and other appropriate regulations and standards. Notice of the staff
review of the proposed subdivision concept plan is considered a type of first
public meeting and shall be provided in accordance with §
155.395 of this code. The county staff shall make findings regarding the
submitted concept plan, specifying any inadequacy in the information submitted,
noncompliance with county regulations. County staff may also request additional
information which may assist them to evaluate the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   The county staff may require additional information, data or studies
to be provided for the overall development before acceptance of the concept
plan is provided. Any recommendation given by the county staff may include
requirements that are applicable to the overall development as part of its
findings on the concept plan.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall evaluate the recommendations of county
staff and notified agencies, and the applicable requirements of all county
ordinances and general plans and shall submit written findings and
recommendations to the developer for all subdivisions of eight lots or less.
Recommendations regarding the concept plan by the Zoning Administrator shall
not constitute an approval or disapproval of the proposed subdivision, but
rather shall operate in such a manner as to give the subdivider general
guidance as to the requirements and constraints for the subdivider’s proposed
subdivision within the county. The Zoning Administrator shall provide a copy of
any final recommendations to the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-19) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 17-26, passed 5-2-
2017; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 155.403 REFERRAL TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND COUNTY COMMISSION.
   (A)   For all concept subdivision plans of greater than ten lots and when
otherwise determined by the Zoning Administrator to be in the best interest of
the county, a concept plan shall be referred to the Planning Commission for a
recommendation and then to the County Commission for review and acceptance. The
Zoning Administrator shall take the following into account when determining
whether the application for concept subdivision plan approval for ten lots or
less will require Planning Commission and County Commission review:
      (1)   The size of the proposed development;
      (2)   Whether the subdivision lies within the Sensitive Area District or
geologic hazard study area;
      (3)   Compliance with county ordinances and general plans;
      (4)   Requests for special exceptions or modifications of standards;
      (5)   Compatibility with surrounding properties; and
      (6)   Whether the proposed concept plan is routine and uncontested.
   (B)   Staff shall notify the Planning Commission and County Commission with
a record of findings and recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-20) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019; Ord. 23-14, passed 10-3-2023)
§ 155.404 EXPIRATION OF CONCEPT PLAN.
   Once concept plan recommendations have been received from the county as
provided herein, the subdivider may apply for preliminary plat approval
consistent with the concept plan. If preliminary plat approval for any portion
of a reviewed concept plan has not been obtained within 12 months of the date
on which concept plan was accepted by the Zoning Administrator or County
Commission, a resubmittal of the concept plan shall be required. One 12-month
extension may be granted by the Zoning Administrator or County Commission,
whichever land use authority accepted the original concept plan, if the concept
subdivision proposal or the county ordinances regulating the subdivision have
not changed, and if the developer applies for the extension in writing prior to
the original expiration date.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-21) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.405 PRELIMINARY PLAT; PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the preliminary plat is to require formal preliminary
approval of a subdivision as provided herein in order to minimize changes and
revisions which might otherwise be necessary on the final plat. The preliminary
plat and all information and procedures relating thereto, shall in all
respects, be in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and any other
applicable county ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-22) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.406 APPLICATION AND FEES.
   The subdivider of a subdivision, after completing the concept plan required
in this chapter, shall file an application for preliminary plat approval with
the county’s Planning and Development Services Department on a form prescribed
by the Zoning Administrator, together with the number of and size of plans
indicated on the application form, and all required digital submittals of the
preliminary plat and the appropriate application fee as set forth in the county
fee schedule. No application shall be forwarded to or scheduled for public
meeting before the Planning Commission until all required information has been
received and reviewed by the county staff.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-23) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.407 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMITTAL.
   The preliminary plat shall be prepared, stamped and signed by a state-
licensed professional engineer or professional land surveyor. The preliminary
plat submittal shall include at least the following information:
   (A)   Vicinity map:
      (1)   Drawn at a maximum scale of 1,000 feet to the inch;
      (2)   Show all existing and proposed roadways in the vicinity of the
proposed development;
      (3)   A north arrow;
      (4)   The nearest section corner tie; and
      (5)   Subdivision name.
   (B)   Certified boundary survey of the subject property, which meets current
state requirements, which also depicts all easements identified by the title
report;
   (C)   Preliminary plat (all facilities within 200 feet of the plat shall be
shown):
      (1)   Drawn at a scale not smaller than 100 feet to the inch;
      (2)   A north arrow;
      (3)   Subdivision name;
      (4)   The layout and names and widths of existing and future road rights-
of-way;
      (5)   A tie to a permanent survey monument at a section corner;
      (6)   The boundary lines of the subdivision with bearings and distances;
      (7)   The layout and dimensions of proposed lots with lot areas in square
feet;
      (8)   The location and dimensions and labeling of other spaces including
open spaces, parks, trails or public spaces;
      (9)   The location of human-made features including bridges, railroad
tracks, fences, ditches and buildings;
      (10)   Topography at two-foot intervals. One-foot contours may be
required by the County Engineer in particularly flat areas;
      (11)   Location and ownership of all adjoining tracts of land; and
      (12)   Proposed subdivision phasing plan and relationship to existing
phases of development.
   (D)   Grading and drainage plan (may be combined with plat sheet, if
approved by the County Engineer):
      (1)   Plan drawn to a scale not smaller than 100 feet to the inch,
showing the road and lot layout;
      (2)   Topography at two-foot contour intervals;
      (3)   North arrow;
      (4)   Subdivision name;
      (5)   Areas of substantial earthmoving and/or grading;
      (6)   Location of existing watercourses, canals, ditches, springs, wells,
culverts and storm drains;
      (7)   Location of any 100-year floodplain as designated by FEMA;
      (8)   A storm drainage plan showing water flow directions, inlets,
outlets, catch basins, waterways, culverts, detention basins, outlets to off-
site facilities and off-site drainage facilities planned to accommodate the
project drainage;
      (9)   Show any existing wetlands; and
      (10)   Slope analysis which depicts all slopes greater than 15% and
greater than 25% with distinct notation.
   (E)   Utility plan (may be combined with plat sheet, if approved by the
County Engineer):
      (1)   Plan drawn to a scale not smaller than 100 feet to the inch,
showing the road and lot layout;
      (2)   North arrow;
      (3)   Subdivision name;
      (4)   Show all existing and proposed utilities including: Sewer; culinary
water; well locations with secondary water; fire hydrants; storm drains;
subsurface drains; gas lines; power lines and streetlights; and television and
telecommunications; and
      (5)   Show location and dimensions of all utility easements.
   (F)   The subdivider shall provide the following documents with the
application:
      (1)   Three copies of a geotechnical investigation report and a geologic
hazards report, if required;
      (2)   A traffic report when required by the Planning Commission or County
Engineer;
      (3)   Preliminary title report, which specifically references the
boundary survey and exactly matches the legal description of the outside
boundary of the subdivision;
      (4)   A will serve letter from all utility companies or providers that
states:
         (a)   That their system has capacity to serve the proposed
development, documentation of such available capacity and specifying the amount
of such capacity that will be utilized for the proposed project; and
         (b)   Any conditions of required improvements before they can serve
the subdivision.
      (5)   Any necessary agreements with adjacent property owners regarding
storm drainage or other matters pertinent to subdivision approval;
      (6)   Maintenance agreements for subsurface drains serving the
subdivision, if they are proposed or exist;
      (7)   An agricultural impact analysis, on subdivisions which are
contiguous to an adopted agricultural preservation area, or which contain an
agricultural open space conservation easement within the plat;
      (8)   Written verification of all proposed water sources. For all
proposed water sources, provide approval letters from the Weber/Morgan Health
Department and proof of all water rights, including quantities (water rights
certificates and the like), for each well and water source to be utilized for
the development;
      (9)   (a)   The developer shall submit all information concerning site
geology, area hydrogeology, site topography, soil types and the proven wet
water by the drilling of at least one test well from within the described
subdivision boundary, as determined by a state-licensed Geotechnical Engineer.
Well logs shall be submitted to the county identifying the depth and yield of
the well; and
         (b)   Information submitted must verify that the source is
consistently available to supply 800 gallons per day (gpd) per equivalent
residential connection (ERC) at a minimum flow rate of 0.55 gallons per minute
(gpm). Water for irrigation supplies shall be verified to provide three gpm per
irrigated acre. If the proposal is being served by an existing water utility
company, these requirements do not apply.
      (10)   Verification of approval from the Weber/Morgan Health Department
regarding the proposed location of all septic systems and water source
protection areas.
   (G)   When the subdivision is located within the Sensitive Area District or
geologic hazards special study area, required reports and documents are to be
submitted in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (H)   The subdivider shall comply with all applicable federal, state and
local laws and regulations, and shall provide evidence of such compliance if
requested by the county.
   (I)   Copy of proposed protective covenants in all cases where subsurface
drains or other common area maintenance proposals are to serve any portion of
the subdivision.
   (J)   Electronic copies of all preliminary plat drawings in AutoCAD (DWG)
format.
   (K)   Tabulations showing the total number of lots or buildings sites and
the percentage of land in roads, lots and open space.
   (L)   Any additional submittal requirements required for or by master-
planned development reserves, specific development agreements or requirements
and conditions of other applicable ordinances or previous approvals.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-24) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 12-09, passed 9-
18-2012; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-2019; Ord. 20-11, passed 9-1-2020)
§ 155.408 DISTRIBUTION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The county’s Planning and Development Services Department, upon receipt of
the complete application for preliminary plat approval, shall distribute copies
of the plat to such government departments and other agencies or advisors as,
in the opinion of the Department, may contribute to a decision in the best
interest of the public.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-25) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.409 REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the submitted preliminary plat
and determine compliance with the standards and criteria set forth in this
chapter and all other ordinances of the county, including, but not limited to,
the Land Use Management Code, General Plan, master street plan, road and bridge
standards and applicable Building Codes. Courtesy notice of the public meeting
at which the Planning Commission reviews the proposed preliminary plat shall be
provided in accordance with §
155.395 of this code. The Planning Commission shall make findings specifying
any inadequacy in the application, noncompliance with county regulations,
design and construction standards and/or engineering and the need for any
additional information which may any additional information which may assist
the Planning Commission to evaluate the preliminary plat. The Planning
Commission may review all relevant information pertaining to the proposed
development including, but not limited to, the following: Fire protection;
sufficient supply of culinary and secondary water to the proposed subdivision;
sanitary sewer and septic service; traffic considerations and the potential for
flooding; and the like. The Planning Commission shall submit its findings and
recommendations regarding approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat to
the County Commission for review and decision.
   (B)   The County Commission shall review the findings and recommendations by
the Planning Commission for the proposed preliminary plat. The County
Commission may make any modifications to the proposed preliminary plat that it
considers appropriate, and which are in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Granting of preliminary plat approval by the County Commission shall
not constitute a final acceptance of the subdivision by the County Commission.
Approval of the preliminary plat shall not relieve the subdivider of the
responsibility to comply with all required conditions and ordinances and to
provide the improvements and easements necessary to meet all county standards
and requirements.
   (D)   Preliminary plat approval must be granted by the county prior to the
application for final plat approval.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-26) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.410 PHASING OF SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Where a subdivision is proposed to be developed in phases, the
subdivider shall, as a requirement of preliminary plat submittal, identify the
location of all proposed phases within the subdivision, along with a proposed
timeline for the construction of proposed public and private improvements.
   (B)   When geologic hazard improvements are required, they shall be
completed for each phase of the subdivision prior to submitting for final plat.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-27) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.411 EXPIRATION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Once preliminary plat approval has been granted, the subdivider may
apply for final plat approval. If the subdivider has not applied for approval
of the final plat within one year of the date of preliminary plat approval by
the County Commission, the preliminary plat must again be submitted in
accordance with this subchapter. This time period may be extended up to 12
months for good cause shown if subdivider petitions the County Commission for
an extension prior to the expiration date, however only one 12-month extension
may be granted.
   (B)   In those cases where a subdivision is proposed to be developed in
phases, preliminary plat approval for the remaining portions of the subdivision
shall expire three years from the date the final plat for the first phase is
recorded, unless this provision is modified by a specific development
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-28) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.412 FINAL PLAT; PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the final plat is to require formal approval by the County
Commission before a subdivision plat is recorded in the office of the County
Recorder. The final plat and all information and procedures relating thereto
shall in all respects be in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The
final plat and construction drawings shall be submitted at the time of final
plat application and shall conform in all respects to those regulations and
requirements specified during the preliminary plat procedure. Additionally, all
other final plat requirements such as title report(s), improvements guarantee
agreements and fees shall be required to be submitted with the final drawings.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-29) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.413 FILING DEADLINE, APPLICATION AND FEES.
   Application for final plat approval shall be made within 12 months after
approval of the preliminary plat by the County Commission, unless a different
expiration period has been established by a development agreement. This time
period may be extended up to 12 months for good cause shown if the subdivider
petitions the County Commission for an extension prior to the expiration date;
however, only one 12-month extension may be granted. The subdivider shall file
an application for final plat approval with the county’s Planning and
Development Services Department on an application form prescribed by the Zoning
Administrator, together with the amount and size of copies of the proposed
final plat and construction drawings which are specified in the application,
along with digital copies of all of the drawings in AutoCAD (DWG) format. At
the same time, the subdivider shall pay to the county the application fee for
the subdivision as set forth in the county fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-30) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.414 OTHER REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   Final storm drainage plans and erosion control plans with final
hydraulic and hydrologic storm drainage calculations, water flow directions,
inlets, outlets, catch basins, waterways, culverts, detention basins, outlets
to off-site facilities and off-site drainage facilities planned to accommodate
the project drainage and any other drainage information required by the County
Engineer in order to demonstrate mitigation of potential harmful impact.
   (B)   Construction drawings which show existing ground and/or asphalt
elevations, planned grades and elevations of proposed improvements and the
location of all utilities and shall meet all county standards and
specifications. All construction drawings shall have the designing state-
licensed professional engineer’s seal, date and signature stamped on all
submitted sheets.
   (C)   If in a geologic hazard study area, the report recommendations, plans
and any other information required by the County Engineer or Geologist to
demonstrate mitigation of potential harmful impact from geologic hazards.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-31) (Ord. 12-09, passed 9-18-2012; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.415 FINAL PLAT; PREPARATION AND REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   The final plat shall consist of a Mylar with the outside or trim line
dimensions of 24 inches by 36 inches, architectural D paper size. The Mylar
shall be submitted to the county at least 20 days prior to consideration for
placement on the County Commission agenda for approval. Until that date,
submittal of paper copies is sufficient for review. The borderline of the plat
shall be drawn in heavy lines leaving a space of at least one and one-half
inches on the left side and at least one-half inch margin on the other sides.
The plat shall be so drawn that the top of the drawing faces either north or
west, whichever accommodates the drawing best. All lines, dimensions and
markings shall be made on a Mylar with approved waterproof black ink. The plat
shall be made to a scale large enough to clearly show all details, and in any
case not smaller than 100 feet to the inch and quality of work on the finished
drawing shall be neat, clean cut and readable.
   (B)   The final plat shall show the subdivision name that is distinct from
any other recorded subdivision name and the general location of the subdivision
in bold letters at the top of the sheet.
   (C)   The plat shall contain a north arrow and scale of the drawing and the
date.
   (D)   (1)   After final plat approval by the County Commission, the plat
shall be signed by all required and authorized parties, with the exception of
the County Commission Chairperson, Planning Commission Chairperson and County
Attorney, with appropriate notarial acknowledgments and the final plat shall
contain all information set forth in this section.
      (2)   A signature on the plat by a service provider shall be a commitment
to provide the respective service to the lots created pursuant to the plat.
   (E)   An accurate and complete survey, which conforms to current state law.
   (F)   Plats will show accurately drawn boundaries, showing the proper
bearings and dimensions of all boundary lines of the subdivision, properly tied
to at least two public survey monuments. These lines should be slightly heavier
than street and lot lines.
   (G)   The final plat shall show all survey, mathematical information and
data necessary to locate all monuments and to locate and retrace all interior
and exterior boundary lines appearing thereon, including bearing and distance
of straight lines and central angle, radius and arc length of curves and such
information as may be necessary to determine the location of beginning and
ending points of curves. All property corners and monuments within the
subdivision shall be tied to an acceptable county monument, as determined by
the County Surveyor. Lot and boundary closure shall be calculated to the
nearest two hundredths of one foot.
   (H)   All lots, blocks and parcels offered for dedication for any purpose
should be delineated and designated with dimensions, boundaries and courses
clearly shown and defined in every case. The square footage of each lot shall
be shown. All parcels offered for dedication other than for streets or
easements shall be clearly designated on the plat. Sufficient linear, angular
and curved data shall be shown to determine readily the bearing and length of
the boundary lines of every block, lot and parcel which is a part thereof. No
ditto marks shall be used for lot dimensions.
   (I)   The plat shall show the right-of-way lines of each street, and the
width of any portion being dedicated and widths of any existing dedications.
The widths and locations of adjacent streets and other public properties within
50 feet of the subdivision shall be shown with dashed lines. If any street in
the subdivision is a continuation or an approximate continuation of an existing
street, the conformity or the amount of nonconformity of such existing streets
shall be accurately shown.
   (J)   All lots are to be numbered consecutively under a definite system
approved by the county. Numbering shall continue consecutively throughout the
subdivision with no omissions or duplications.
   (K)   All streets within the subdivision shall be numbered (named streets
shall also be numbered) in accordance with and in conformity with the adopted
street numbering system adopted by the county. Each lot shall show the street
addresses assigned thereto and shall be according to the standard addressing
methods approved by the county. In the case of corner lots, an address will be
assigned for each part of the lot having street frontage.
   (L)   The side lines of all easements shall be shown by fine dashed lines.
The width of all easements and sufficient ties thereto to definitely locate the
same with respect to the subdivision shall be shown. All easements shall be
clearly labeled and identified.
   (M)   The plat shall fully and clearly show all stakes, monuments and other
evidence indicating the boundaries of the subdivision as found on the site. Any
monument or benchmark that is disturbed or destroyed before acceptance of all
improvements shall be replaced by the subdivider under the direction of the
County Surveyor. The following required monuments shall be shown on the final
plat:
      (1)   The location of all monuments placed in making the survey,
including a statement as to what, if any, points were reset by ties; and
      (2)   All right-of-way monuments at angle points and intersections as
approved by the County Surveyor.
   (N)   The final plat shall contain the name, stamp and signature of a state-
licensed professional land surveyor, who prepared the plat, together with the
date of the survey, the scale of the map and number of sheets. The following
certificates, acknowledgments and descriptions shall appear on the title sheet
of the final plat, and such certificates may be combined where appropriate:
      (1)   State-licensed professional land surveyor’s “certificate of
survey;”
      (2)   Owner’s dedication certificate in the following form:
 
OWNER’S DEDICATION
Know all by these presents that we, the undersigned owner(s) of the above described tract of land, having
caused said tract to be subdivided into lots and streets to be hereafter known as Subdivision            
do hereby dedicate for perpetual use of the public all parcels of land, other utilities or easements
shown on this plat as intended for public use. In witness whereof, we have hereunto set out hands this
       day of                   , 20       .
(Add appropriate acknowledgments)
 
      (3)   Notary public’s acknowledgment for each signature on the plat;
      (4)   A correct metes and bounds description of all property included
within the subdivision;
      (5)   Plats shall contain signatures of the water provider (if provided
by a culinary water system), sewer provider (if provided by a sewer improvement
district), Weber/Morgan Health Department, the county’s Planning Commission and
County Engineer and blocks for signatures of the County Attorney and County
Commission (a signature line for the Commission Chairperson and an attestation
by the County Clerk). A block for the County Recorder shall be provided in the
lower right corner of the final plat;
      (6)   Such other affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments, endorsements
and notarial seals as are required by law, by this chapter, the County Attorney
and/or County Surveyor;
      (7)   Prior to recordation of the plat, the subdivider shall submit a
current title report to be reviewed by the county. A “current title report” is
one which correctly discloses all recorded matters of title regarding the
property and which is prepared and dated not more than 30 days before the
proposed recordation of the final plat;
      (8)   The owner’s dedication certificate, a state-licensed professional
land surveyor’s certificate of survey, and any other certificates contained on
the final plat shall be in the form prescribed by the county’s standards; and
      (9)   When a subdivision contains lands which are reserved in private
ownership for community use, including common areas, the subdivider shall
submit, with the final plat, the name, proposed articles of incorporation and
bylaws of the owner or organization empowered to own, maintain and pay taxes on
such lands and common areas and any access easements which may be required by
the county.
   (O)   On subdivisions which are contiguous to an adopted agricultural
protection area, or which contain an agricultural open space preservation area
within the plat, a note shall be placed on the plat, in conjunction with right
to farm provisions, stating such and that agricultural operations work hours
begin early and run late and that these operations may contribute to noises and
odors objectionable to some residents.
   (P)   A note on the plat which states the following:
 
The county restricts the occupancy of buildings within developments as outlined
in the adopted Building and Fire Codes. It is unlawful to occupy a building
located within any development without first having obtained a certificate of
occupancy issued by the county.
 
(Prior Code, § 8-12-32) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019; Ord. 20-11, passed 9-1-2020) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.416 REVIEW BY THE COUNTY ENGINEER.
   The County Engineer shall review the final plat and construction drawings
and determine compliance with the county design and construction standards and
criteria set forth in this chapter and all other applicable standards and
ordinances of the county and the state. If the final plat and construction
drawings comply, the County Engineer shall forward the plat to the Zoning
Administrator, through the county’s Planning and Development Services
Department. If the plat and construction drawings do not comply, the County
Engineer shall return the plat to the subdivider, through the county’s Planning
and Development Services Department, with comment.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-33) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.417 REVIEW BY THE COUNTY SURVEYOR.
   The County Surveyor shall review the final plat and determine compliance
with the surveying standards and criteria set forth in this chapter and all
other applicable standards and ordinances of the county and the state. If the
final plat complies, the County Surveyor shall forward the plat to the Zoning
Administrator, through the county’s Planning and Development Services
Department. If the plat does not comply, the County Surveyor shall return the
plat to the subdivider, through the county’s Planning and Development Services
Department, with comment.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-34) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.418 REVIEW BY THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the final plat, the Zoning Administrator shall review
the plat to determine whether the plat conforms to the preliminary plat, with
all changes requested and with all requirements imposed as conditions of
acceptance. The Zoning Administrator shall check the final plat for
completeness and compliance with the requirements of this chapter. If the
submitted final plat is not complete, not in compliance with all requirements,
or does not incorporate any required changes, the Zoning Administrator shall
notify the subdivider and specify the respects in which it is deficient. If the
Zoning Administrator determines that the final plat is in conformity with all
requirements and the ordinances of the county it shall recommend approval of
the final plat and forward the plat to the County Commission. The Zoning
Administrator will make best efforts to notify the Planning Commission that the
plat is being forwarded to the County Commission.
   (B)   If, upon the review of a final plat application processed by the
Zoning Administrator as described here, the County Commission determines that
the Zoning Administrator has not sufficiently addressed all issues relative to
the subdivision, the County Commission may refer the application back to the
Zoning Administrator for further review and recommendation.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-35) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.419 REVIEW BY THE COUNTY COMMISSION.
   Within a reasonable time following the recommended approval of the final
plat by the Zoning Administrator, the final plat shall be submitted to the
County Commission for its review and consideration. The County Commission shall
not be bound by the recommendations of the Zoning Administrator and may set its
own conditions and requirements consistent with this chapter. If the County
Commission determines that the final plat is in conformity with the
requirements of this chapter, other applicable ordinances and that the County
Commission is satisfied with the final plat of the subdivision, it shall
approve the final plat. If the County Commission determines that the final plat
is not in conformity with this chapter or other applicable ordinances, it shall
disapprove the final plat specifying the reasons for such disapproval. No final
plat shall have any force or effect unless the same has been approved by the
County Commission and signed by the County Commission Chairperson and the
County Clerk. Best efforts shall be made by staff to notify the Planning
Commission of final decisions of the County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-36) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.420 COMPLETION ASSURANCE FOR REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall complete all required landscaping or
infrastructure improvement prior to any plat recordation or development
activity. This division (A) does not apply if upon the applicant’s request, the
county has authorized the applicant to post an improvement completion assurance
in a manner that is consistent with this section.
   (B)   Prior to signing of a final plat by the County Engineer, County
Attorney, County Clerk and County Commission Chairperson, the subdivider shall
enter into an improvement completion agreement acceptable to the county
ensuring completion of all improvements required to be installed in the
subdivision. The completion agreement shall be in a form approved by the County
Attorney, shall be signed on behalf of the county by the County Commission
Chairperson, and may contain specific provisions approved by the County
Attorney. The improvement completion agreement shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   The subdivider’s agreement to complete all improvements within a
period not to exceed 24 months from the date the subdivision was approved by
the county the agreement is executed;
      (2)   The improvements shall be completed to the satisfaction of the
county and in accordance with the county’s design and construction standards as
established by the County Engineer and adopted by the County Commission;
      (3)   A provision that the improvement completion assurance shall be
equal to 110% of the County Engineer’s estimated cost of the improvements to be
installed;
      (4)   That the county shall have direct access to the improvement
completion assurance when necessary to remedy a deficiency in required
subdivision improvements or a violation of the improvement completion
agreement;
      (5)   That improvement completion assurance may only be reduced upon the
written request of the subdivider as system improvements are completed. The
amount of the reduction shall be determined by the County Engineer. Reductions
shall be made only as they apply to the completion, satisfactory to the County
Engineer, of entire systems. The improvements for subdivisions are typically
grouped into seven system categories: culinary water, storm drainage, sanitary
sewer, roadways, parks/trails and landscaping, erosion control and
miscellaneous/finish items. Additional categories may be added if approved by
the County Engineer. Such written reduction requests may be made only once
every 30 days and no reduction shall be authorized until such time as the
County Engineer has inspected the improvements and found them to be in
compliance with the county’s standards and specifications. All reductions shall
be by written authorization of the County Engineer. No improvement completion
assurance shall be reduced below 10% of the County Engineer’s estimated cost of
the improvement to be installed until final acceptance by the County Engineer
following an improvement completion assurance warranty period. No reduction in
improvement completion assurance shall be allowed for materials which are
delivered to the subdivision site but not installed in accordance with approved
construction drawings;
      (6)   That if the improvement completion assurance is inadequate to pay
the cost of the completion of the improvements according to the county’s
standards or specifications for whatever reason, including previous reductions,
the subdivider shall be responsible for the deficiency and no further building
permits shall be issued in the subdivision until the improvements are completed
or, with County Commission approval, a new, satisfactory deposit and
improvement completion agreement has been executed and delivered to the county;
      (7)   That the county’s cost of administration and engineering costs
incurred in obtaining the deposited funds, including attorney fees and court
costs, shall be deducted from any deposited funds;
      (8)   That the subdivider shall guarantee and maintain all improvements
installed against any damage arising from any defect in construction, materials
or quality of work during the warranty period and shall promptly repair the
same upon notice from the county; and
      (9)   That the subdivider shall agree to hold the county harmless from
any and all liability which may arise as a result of defects in materials and
work of the improvements which are installed until such time as the county
certifies the improvements are complete and accepts the improvements at the end
of the warranty period.
   (C)   The county may accept three forms of financial completion assurance:
      (1)   Funds deposited directly with the County Treasurer;
      (2)   Letter of credit: an applicant may only use a letter of credit if
the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The applicant’s financial institution has been approved by the
County Treasurer and the County Attorney;
         (b)   The applicant’s financial institution provides the letter of
credit on a standard letter of credit form supplied by county or in a form that
provides equal or greater financial protection to the county, as determined by
the County Attorney;
         (c)   The County Attorney, County Treasurer, and County Engineer
approve the letter of credit, which they shall do if all of the conditions
above are met unless they have reasonable, objective indications of a
substantial risk that either the applicant or the applicant’s financial
institution will not fulfill its obligations related to the completion of
improvements or the financial guarantee; and
         (d)   A cash escrow is deposited with the County Treasurer at the time
the letter of credit is executed equal to the full cost to revegetate any
removed vegetation in the event the applicant, his or her successors or heirs,
or his or her financial institution fails to perform.
      (3)   An escrow agreement and an escrow account deposited with a county-
approved third party, federally insured financial institution. An applicant may
only use an escrow account if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The applicant’s financial institution has been approved by the
County Treasurer and the County Attorney;
          (b)   The applicant’s financial institution provides the escrow
agreement and account on a standard form supplied by the county or in a form
that provides equal or greater financial protection to the county, as
determined by the County Attorney;
         (c)   The County Attorney, County Treasurer, and County Engineer
approve the escrow account, which they shall do if all of the conditions above
are met unless they have reasonable, objective indications of a substantial
risk that either the applicant or the applicant’s financial institution will
not fulfill its obligations related to the completion of improvements or the
financial guarantee; and
         (d)   A cash escrow is deposited with the County Treasurer at the time
the escrow account is executed equal to the full cost to revegetate any removed
vegetation in the event the applicant, his or her successors or heirs, or his
or her financial institution fails to perform.
   (D)   The improvement completion agreement may be extended by the County
Engineer one time for six months for good cause shown. Any subsequent extension
shall require approval by the County Commission following timely written
request by the developer.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-37) (Ord. 17-07, passed 2-7-2017; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 22-03, passed 1-18-2022)
§ 155.421 REVIEW BY THE COUNTY ATTORNEY.
   The County Attorney shall review the submitted final plat, the signed
subdivision improvements agreement, the current title report and the security
for ensuring completion of the improvements to verify compliance with the
county’s dedication and bonding requirements. The County Attorney may also
review public easements, protective covenants and other documents where
applicable. Upon approval of the final plat by the County Commission, the
County Attorney shall sign the plat in the appropriate signature block and
forward the plat to the County Clerk for presentation to the County Commission
Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-38) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.422 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   All required and unpaid fees shall be paid by the subdivider prior to
submitting the final plat to the County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-39) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.423 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   After approval from the County Commission, the submitted improvements
guarantee described in §
155.420 of this code shall be accepted and executed by the county and the final
plat shall be presented by the Zoning Administrator to the County Recorder.
   (B)   The plat may not be submitted to the County Recorder unless each owner
of record of land described on the plat has signed the owner’s dedication as
shown on the plat and each signature is acknowledged as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-40) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.424 EXPIRATION OF FINAL PLAT.
   If the final plat is not recorded within two years from the date of County
Commission approval, such approval shall be null and void. This time period may
be extended by the County Commission for up to one additional one-year period
for good cause shown. The subdivider must petition in writing for an extension
prior to the expiration of the original approval. No extension will be granted
if it is determined that it will be detrimental to the county. If any of the
fees charged as a condition of subdivision approval have increased, the county
may require that the bond estimate be recalculated and that the subdivider pay
any applicable fee increases as a condition of granting an extension.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-41) (Ord. 17-08, passed 2-7-2017; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-
2019; Ord. 23-07, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 155.425 SUBDIVISION LAYOUT AND FENCING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivision layout shall conform to the county’s standards and
ordinances as outlined in this section and all other sections in this chapter.
   (B)   Livestock fencing: New, nonagricultural development immediately
adjacent to an existing agricultural area shall not be approved unless the
developer and/or subsequent owners of property within the development install
an agricultural fence along the property line between the two properties and
assume the responsibility for all costs, including labor, materials and
perpetual maintenance. All nonagricultural development that borders agriculture
areas shall be subject to the following fencing requirements:
      (1)   The developer shall be required to pay for all of the cost,
including labor and materials for a fence if the fence is or becomes a
partition fence separating the development area from an adjoining agricultural
area;
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above fencing requirement, the developer may,
at his or her own discretion, cost and expense, construct a perimeter fence to
enclose the development;
      (3)   In development areas that include wildlife migration corridors or
critical wildlife habitat, as determined by the state’s Division of Wildlife
Resources (DWR), wildlife friendly fencing may be considered;
      (4)   The fence shall be installed prior to any subdivision construction
within the development;
      (5)   This code shall apply to all developments approved after January 1,
2020; and
      (6)   If the adjoining property ceases to operate an agricultural area
the fencing and maintenance requirements shall not be required.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-42) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019; Ord. 20-02, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 155.426 LOTS.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall result in the creation of lots which are
developable and capable of being built upon. A subdivision shall not create
lots which would make improvement unfeasible due to size, shape, steepness of
terrain, location of watercourses, problems of sewerage, driveway grades or
other physical conditions.
   (B)   Where required by this chapter, all lots or parcels created by the
subdivision shall have frontage on a street, improved to standards hereinafter
required, equal to at least the street’s minimum required width from top back
of curb on one side of the street to the back of sidewalk on the abutting side.
Lots and parcels created by the subdivision with frontage along a previously
established public street shall only be required to install a half street as
defined in §
155.008 of this code. This frontage standard shall not apply to commercial
subdivision lots where adequate executed cross-access agreements are provided
between any and all affected developments and/or properties. Land designated as
public right-of-way shall be separate and distinct from lots adjoining such
right-of-way and not be included in the area of such lots.
   (C)   Flag-shaped or panhandle lots ("flag lots") may be created by
subdivision in any single-family residential zone, if all of the following
requirements are met:
      (1)   The lot has at least the width of a Private Lane (as defined in
division
155.427(P)) as frontage on a dedicated public street or a private street
established in a final plat or currently existing within the County and not
part of a final plat; and
      (2)   The entire flagpole/panhandle portion of the lot shall be at least
the width of a Private Lane;
      (3)   There shall be a minimum separation between the edges of flagpoles/
panhandles that equals or exceeds the minimum required lot width for lots
within the respective zone in which the property is located; and
      (4)   The length of the flagpole or panhandle shall not exceed 750 feet
as measured from the right-of-way line or street chord upon which the flagpole/
panhandle fronts on a public street or final platted private street to the
front line of the body of the lot; and
      (5)   The flagpole or panhandle portion of a flag lot shall not be
included in calculated gross square footage of a lot; and
      (6)   The minimum lot size is determined by the applicable underlying
zoning.
      (7)   No accessory building shall be allowed on any portion of the pole
or panhandle of the flag lot.
      (8)   A paved, or all weather hard surfaced, area must be provided as
determined by the Fire Chief on each flag for the turnaround accommodation of
emergency vehicles. The panhandle or pole may be included as part of the
necessary turnaround area.
      (9)   A flagpole or panhandle may not extend from a cul-de-sac bulb or
from a temporary turnaround at the end of a temporary dead-end street.
      (10)   All building setbacks shall be measured from the flag property
lines. No setback shall be measured from the pole or panhandle.
      (11)   Garbage collection shall be provided at the street only.
      (12)   Mailboxes shall be located at the street of the stem or pole of
the lot.
      (13)   Addresses for the property shall be required along the street that
provides access for emergency purposes.
      (14)   The maximum grade of the flag pole, or panhandle, shall conform
with driveway grade standards.
   (D)   The minimum area and dimensions of all lots shall conform to the
requirements of this code for the zoning district in which the subdivision is
located.
   (E)   The interior side lot lines of all lots shall be within 30 degrees of
perpendicular to the street which the lot faces, or within 30 degrees of
perpendicular to the center of curves, if such street is curved. Side lines of
lots shall be within 30 degrees of perpendicular to the center of a cul-de-sac
on which the lot faces. All interior side lot lines shall extend at the minimum
of 30 degrees perpendicular, a minimum distance of 50 feet.
   (F)   Corner lots for residential use shall be platted ten feet wider than
interior lots in order to facilitate conformance with the required street
setback requirements of this code.
   (G)   A lot shall not be divided by a city limit line or county boundary
line.
   (H)   Remnants of property shall not be left in the subdivision which do not
conform to lot requirements or are not required or suitable for common open
space, private utility or public purpose.
   (I)   Double frontage lots are not permitted unless approved by the County
Commission after receiving a recommendation from county staff and the Planning
Commission. The street frontage adjacent to the rear of any approved double
frontage lots shall be improved by the subdivider in accordance with the
standards set forth in the county’s subdivision standards. Unless specifically
approved by the county, no double frontage lot shall have vehicular access from
the street frontage adjacent to the rear of the lot.
   (J)   All portions of all parcels from which a subdivision is created shall
be included within the mapped boundary description of the subdivision plat,
unless a portion of land qualifies for, and is approved as, an agricultural
land or other approved exemption from platting requirements, pursuant to §
155.393 of this code and applicable state law.
   (K)   Building envelopes shall be required to be shown on all final plats
designating the buildable area on each lot. Building envelopes shall take into
account minimum setback requirements, utility and access easements, physical
constraints such as steep or unbuildable slopes, waterways, wetlands, faults,
geologic hazards, water source protection areas and any other features
necessary and which are in accordance with this chapter. The accurate
identification of the building envelope in the field is the responsibility of
the developer. A certificate of survey, prepared by a state-licensed
professional land surveyor, may be required by the county. Building envelopes
for single-family dwellings shall not be less than 5,000 square feet of
contiguous area.
   (L)   Areas of lots which are 25% slope or greater are considered
unbuildable and shall not be included within the building envelope. Lots which
contain a building envelope with slopes greater than 15%, but less than 25%
shall submit a geotechnical investigation and slope stability analysis, along
with a site plan with the preliminary plat application, which has been prepared
by a state-licensed professional engineer. The site plan shall include the
driveway location, driveway grade, existing and proposed contour lines,
location of and engineering design for all retaining walls in excess of four
feet, a grading and drainage plan (including slope stability analysis) for all
cut and fill areas and the finished floor elevation of the home. Slope
stability analyses shall demonstrate that the proposed structure is stable on
the slope to a minimum factor of safety of one and one-half under static
conditions and one and one-tenth under pseudostatic conditions in conformance
with the provisions in §§
155.220 through
155.237 of this code (geologic hazards). The County Engineer shall review the
analysis and site plan and may require peer review of any submitted engineering
report by the County Geologist or other state-licensed professional engineer.
The Building Official may require the developer to provide special inspections
and written verification from a state-licensed professional engineer regarding
construction compliance with the engineered site plan and recommendations of
the geotechnical report.
   (M)   Shape of lots: lot lines shall generally be perpendicular with the
street and run radically away from the street.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-43) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 17-05, passed 2-7-
2017; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-2019; Ord. 22-01, passed 1-4-2022; Ord. 24-06,
passed 3-19-2024)
§ 155.427 STREETS, PRIVATE LANES AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Connection with existing streets. Subdividers shall locate streets
within the subdivision so that the streets connect with existing public
streets. If the adjoining land is zoned for residential use or agricultural
zoning which would allow the creation of a planned residential subdivision,
such as RR-10, RR-5, RR-1, R1-20 and A-20, streets shall be located and stubbed
so that the adjacent land may be most efficiently subdivided.
   (B)   Conform to standards. All streets shall conform to the standards as
designated by the county’s master traffic and transportation plan and/or
adopted county design and construction standards, pursuant to this chapter. For
territory where the master traffic and transportation plan does not designate a
street, streets shall be provided as required by the Planning Commission and
County Commission, commensurate with the anticipated impact of the subdivision
and in accordance with adopted county design and construction standards and
facilities plans. All public streets shall be dedicated to the county for
public use.
   (C)   Half street. Where a “half street” is approved as defined in §
155.008 of this code, such street shall include no less than sufficient right-
of-way to construct half a “local street section,” and the subdivider shall
install the same; however, at no time shall the improved street surface be less
than 22 feet wide for the entire width of the subdivision.
   (D)   Improvements required. All lots or parcels created by the subdivision
shall have access to the lot as required in this chapter. Pavement widths,
curbs, gutters, sidewalks and park strips shall be installed on existing and
proposed streets by the subdivider in all subdivisions where the adopted road
cross-sections require these improvements.
      (1)   Deferral agreement. The County Commission may, after receiving a
recommendation from the County Engineer and the Planning Commission, modify the
street improvement requirements, if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   A deferral agreement to construct any remaining required street
improvements at a later date, to be determined by the county is executed prior
to the recordation of the plat;
         (b)   The deferred improvements are not necessary at this time to
protect the public’s health, safety and welfare, and the required improvements
would create a negative impact on abutting unimproved properties; and
         (c)   In lieu of a deferral agreement, the Planning Commission may
grant an improvements exemption as provided for in this division (D).
      (2)   Improvements exemption.
         (a)   The Planning Commission may provide an improvements exemption
for certain street improvement requirements. Residential subdivisions of ten
lots or fewer may receive a special exemption from the requirement to improve
infrastructure deficiencies along the frontage of existing infrastructure. This
exemption shall only be available for those properties abutting existing public
streets, as indicated in this division (D)(2), and as determined by county
staff. Pavement width, curb, gutter, sidewalks and park strips may be treated
as separate components. The requirement to provide for each shall depend on the
existence of each component previously improved within 300 feet of the
subdivision boundaries. In all cases where each component of new infrastructure
is required, it shall be installed pursuant to adopted standards.
         (b)   Such an exemption may be granted upon finding that requiring the
full street infrastructure improvements is not roughly proportional, in nature
or extent, to the impact of the development on the community; is not beneficial
to the county; or may be detrimental to the neighboring property abutting the
development; and that the waived improvements are not necessary at this time to
protect the public’s health, safety and welfare.
         (c)   Usage of this division (D)(2) for an exemption to the required
infrastructure standards shall not be utilized to circumvent the need for
infrastructure improvements by adding additional building lots to the
subdivision at a later time. Any amendment to such a subdivision shall
adequately address the requirements for improved infrastructure as provided
elsewhere in this subchapter.
      (d)   The Planning Commission may, based on potential conflict,
complexity or contention of the proposed subdivision, forward the application
to the Planning Commission for review and the County Commission for decision.
   (E)   Angle of approach. Local streets shall approach an arterial or
collector street at an angle of at least 85 degrees. Street grades at
intersections shall be no greater than 4% for at least 50 feet.
   (F)   Street grades. Minimum street grades of l% are required. The maximum
grade for streets and in all zones shall be 12%, for a distance not greater
than 500 feet and shall also be designed and constructed in accordance with the
adopted Fire Code and Wildland Urban Interface Code. Street grades less than 1%
may be considered if it is determined by the County Engineer to be unnecessary
based on sound engineering principles.
   (G)   Connecting curves. Where street lines within a block deflect from each
other at any one point, there shall be connecting curves. The radius of the
curve for the street centerline shall be not less than 350 feet for arterial
streets, 250 feet for collector streets and 150 feet for local streets.
   (H)   Cul-de-sacs.
      (1)   In order to reduce vehicle trips and facilitate a more pedestrian
friendly subdivision design, the use of cul-de-sacs within subdivisions shall
be permitted only when through road connections are not feasible due to
topography, adjacent or surrounding uses, parcel size or shape or other
physical constraints to development. When cul-de-sacs are approved, pedestrian
pathways shall be provided from the cul-de-sac to other streets, pathways or
trails as deemed appropriate by the county through analysis of surrounding
existing and planned facilities. When cul-de-sacs with pedestrian pathways are
proposed or required, they shall be designed in compliance with county
standards and specifications and shall be designed so that the length of the
pathway is minimized and visibility into the pathway is maximized. As a minimum
development standard for the pedestrian pathway, the developer shall construct
a dedicated, paved surface eight feet in width, with curbing to facilitate
proper drainage, as required by the county’s specifications. In addition, the
developer shall install a six-foot-high open fence along both sides of the
pathway in conjunction with the construction of the pathway. The required fence
shall be of maintenance free materials. Required pathway improvements shall be
included in the improvements guarantee for the subdivision.
      (2)   When approved, permanent cul-de-sacs must be terminated with a
turnaround of not less than 96 feet of right-of-way in diameter as stated in
the International Fire Code as adopted by the county, or an alternative
turnaround design which meets the adopted Fire and Wildland Urban Interface
Code and is approved by the Fire Code Official and County Engineer. Cul-de-sacs
and permanent turnarounds shall not exceed 3% grade. Downhill cul-de-sacs shall
not be approved unless adequate drainage and sanitary sewer service is
provided.
   (I)   Dead end streets. Dead end streets and single access developments with
a terminal street system shall not exceed 750 feet in length, unless approved
by the land use authority on accommodation from the Fire Code Official and
County Engineer to meet fire safety standards based on the International Fire
Code as adopted by the county. On temporary dead end streets, a temporary
turnaround area and recordable easement, which meets the requirements of the
adopted Fire and Wildland Urban Interface Code and is approved by the County
Engineer and Fire Code Official, shall be provided at the end thereof to remain
and be available for public use as long as the dead end exists. Improvements
shall be installed in temporary turnaround areas. New subdivisions shall not be
allowed to increase the length of an existing dead end road, if the existing
dead end road is in excess of 750 feet, unless approved by the land use
authority on recommendation from the Fire Code Official and County Engineer to
meet fire safety standards based on the International Fire Code as adopted by
the county but shall be allowed to develop upon the existing dead end road,
pursuant to zoning requirements, if the road meets county standards. Where the
county ordinance and Fire Code contradict, the more restrictive regulation
shall apply.
   (J)   Protection strips. Where subdivision streets parallel contiguous
property of other owners, the subdivider may, with approval of the County
Commission, retain a protection strip of not less than one foot in width
between said street and adjacent property, provided that an agreement approved
by the County Attorney has been made. Such agreement should be either with the
owners of the property adjacent to the protection strip, or with the county for
the benefit of the owners, contracting to deed to the owners of the adjacent
property the protection strip for consideration to be named in the agreement.
Such consideration is to be not more than the fair cost of the land held in the
protection strip, the street and utility improvements properly chargeable to
the adjacent property, plus the value of one-half the land in the street at the
time of agreement. One copy of the agreement shall be submitted to the County
Attorney and one to the county Zoning Administrator prior to approval of the
final plat. Protection strips shall not be submitted at the end of any street.
   (K)   Gates. Gates are allowed to be constructed across private streets and
driveways. Gates must provide lockboxes or other access mechanisms, which are
approved by the County Sheriff and local Fire Code Official.
   (L)   Street names. No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets. Street names are subject to
approval by the county.
   (M)   Private streets in standard single-family subdivisions. Private
streets in standard single-family dwelling subdivisions shall only be approved
in conformance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Private streets shall meet and adhere to all county standards for
private streets, including construction standards and width and right-of-way
standards. The minimum right-of-way for private streets is 36 feet, including
22 feet of paved surface, a four-foot shoulder on each side of the pavement,
and drainage sufficient to provide for anticipated stormwater runoff (a minimum
of three feet per side of the private street). Two feet of shoulder on each
side of the private street is required to be paved for a total of 26 feet of
pavement as illustrated on the adopted street design elevations. Additional
right-of-way may be required if an approved drainage design cannot be
accomplished within the 36-foot right-of-way. The road subgrade and pavement
shall be sufficient to hold a 75,000-pound load.
      (2)   Private streets shall have the same requirements for dead end and
single access roads, cul-de-sacs and maximum length.
      (3)   Private streets shall only be allowed in developments in which a
homeowners’ association is legally established. A perpetual maintenance plan,
including estimates of annual assessments and 30-year road maintenance costs,
along with provisions for management of the association, shall be included
within the CC&Rs for the subdivision. All CC&Rs and HOA corporate documents and
bylaws shall be recorded prior to or concurrent with the final plat.
      (4)   The county may determine in the public interest that a proposed
private street shall be dedicated with the subdivision as a public street for
public use. In such cases, the private streets shall meet all standards
regarding public streets, as specified in this subchapter.
      (5)   Private streets, private lanes, and access easements may terminate
into a Hammerhead design to allow for emergency turnaround. A cul-de-sac may
also be used if desired. Cul-de-sacs shall conform to the standards defined in
division (H) above. Hammerhead design shall conform to the current adopted
International Fire Code and figures defining the 60-foot “Y,” 120-foot
Hammerhead, and the accepted alternative to the 120-foot Hammerhead variants.
   (N)   Private streets in other developments. Private streets in other
flexible subdivision development, commercial and multi-family development types
may only be allowed pursuant to the specific requirements found within the
chapters or provisions allowing such.
   (O)   Establishment of new private street or lane. The establishment of a
new private street, private lane or right-of-way shall be evaluated by the
Zoning Administrator and County Engineer, and may, at the discretion of the
County Commission, be required to be dedicated as a public street meeting
county street standards to accomplish needed and logical street connections, to
provide access to properties that may otherwise have no access or limited
access to the detriment of the property, or other purposes determined to be
appropriate.
   (P)   Private lanes.
      (1)   Requirements. Private lanes in standard single-family dwelling
subdivisions (non-PRUD, MPDR or other planned development type) shall only be
approved in conformance with the following requirements.
         (a)   Private lanes shall only be considered in standard single-family
dwelling subdivisions that have a minimum of 20 acres of contiguous property
within the subdivision boundaries and provide a minimum of five acre lots.
         (b)   Private lanes providing required frontage for and access to lots
shall provide access to no more than four single-family lots or dwellings and
shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length.
         (c)   Private lanes shall have a recorded minimum right-of-way of 26
feet, and an improved, all weather surface of at least 20 feet, designed and
constructed with rolled and compacted road base capable of supporting a 75,000-
pound fire apparatus vehicle, road base and subbase that meet the recommended
geotechnical analysis of the load bearing capacity of the soils under the
proposed roadway, and which is also designed pursuant to adopted construction
standards, Fire Codes and wildland urban interface requirements. Private lanes
greater than 150 feet in length must be terminated with a turnaround of not
less than 110 feet of right-of-way in diameter, or an alternative turnaround
design which meets the adopted Fire and Wildland Urban Interface Code and is
approved by the Fire Code Official and County Engineer. Additional right-of-way
may be required if an approved drainage design cannot be accomplished within
the 26-foot right-of-way.
         (d)   Private lanes shall be clearly annotated on the subdivision plat
as a private lane.
      (2)   Private lanes may be required to be public street. The
establishment of a new private lane or right-of-way shall be evaluated by the
Zoning Administrator and County Engineer, and may, at the discretion of the
County Commission, be required to be dedicated as a public street meeting
county street standards to accomplish needed and logical street connections, to
provide access to properties that may otherwise have no access or limited
access to the detriment of the property, or other purposes determined to be
appropriate.
      (3)   Private lanes considered subdivision improvements. All private lane
and right-of-way improvements are considered required subdivision improvements
and shall be inspected for compliance with the approved plans and construction
drawings prior to any applicant applying for a building permit.
      (4)   Underground utilities to be privately-owned and maintained. All
utilities underneath a private right-of-way shall be deemed private utilities
for ownership and maintenance purposes. Utilities under a private right-of-way
which are provided by special service districts or private companies are
subject to their rules and regulations.
      (5)   On lane parking. In order to maintain continuous access for
emergency vehicles, on-street parking shall be prohibited on a private lane.
Enforcement of on-street parking restrictions shall be the responsibility of
the owners of the private right-of-way.
      (6)   Easement and maintenance. At no time shall any portion of a private
lane right-of-way providing access to single-family dwelling unit(s) be on a
parcel of property or traverse a parcel of property that is not a legal
building lot. Each private lane right-of-way shall be established in the form
of an easement acceptable to the County Attorney and recorded with the County
Recorder. Such easement shall include all parties with interest in the parcel
or parcels containing the private lane right-of-way as grantors and all parties
retaining access from the private lane right-of-way as grantees. The easement
shall extend and connect to the county’s public street infrastructure to
provide clear access from all building lots to a public right-of-way. An
applicant proposing a subdivision with access from a private lane right-of-way
shall submit a document detailing the method for maintaining the private lane
right-of-way, private utilities and any common areas. The document shall be in
a form acceptable to the County Attorney and shall be recorded in the County
Recorder’s office.
      (7)   Setbacks. Minimum setback requirements shall apply to all buildings
fronting, siding or rearing on any private lane right-of-way and shall be
measured from the boundary of the private right-of-way nearest the building and
its extension through the applicable lot. This requirement shall not apply to
lots abutting but not accessing the private right-of-way.
   (Q)   Access easements.
      (1)   Requirements. An access easement shall be allowed in MU-160, F-
1 and A-20 Zoning Districts for one single-family residential unit. The
following requirements shall be met:
         (a)   Lots or parcels that have property lines that are adjacent to
and share a boundary line with a public or private road, the minimum lot or
parcel width shall also be the minimum frontage along that road. Lots or
parcels that are not adjacent to or share a boundary line with a public or
private road shall provide evidence of easements for access to the property;
         (b)   Access easements shall be a minimum of 26 feet wide and shall be
recorded against adjacent properties in favor of the lot or parcel and shall
allow access for emergency personnel and apparatus;
         (c)   Access easements for residential uses shall have an improved,
all weather surface of at least 20 feet, designed and constructed with rolled
and compacted road base capable of supporting a 75,000-pound fire apparatus
vehicle, road base and subbase that meet the recommended geotechnical analysis
of the load bearing capacity of the soils under the proposed roadway, and which
is also designed pursuant to adopted construction standards, Fire Codes and
Wildland Urban Interface Code requirements. If access easements for emergency
vehicles are not required standards may be reduced by the County Engineer; and
         (d)   A turnaround of not less than 110 feet of right-of-way in
diameter, or an alternative turnaround design which meets the adopted Fire and
Wildland Urban Interface Code and is approved by the Fire Code Official and
County Engineer every 1,000 feet. Additional right-of-way may be required if an
approved drainage design cannot be accomplished within the 26-foot right-of-
way.
      (2)   Access easements considered subdivision improvements. All access
easements and right-of-way improvements are considered required subdivision
improvements and shall be inspected for compliance with the approved plans and
construction drawings prior to any applicant applying for a building permit.
      (3)   Underground utilities ownership and maintenance. All utilities
underneath a private right-of-way not in the public right-of-way shall be
deemed private utilities for ownership and maintenance purposes. Utilities
under a private right-of-way which are provided by special service districts or
private companies are subject to their rules and regulations.
      (4)   Parking. Parking shall be prohibited on an access easement.
Enforcement of on-street parking restrictions shall be the responsibility of
the owners of the private right-of-way.
      (5)   Easement and maintenance. Each access easement right-of-way shall
be established in the form of an easement acceptable to the County Attorney and
recorded with the County Recorder. Such easement shall include all parties with
interest in the parcel or parcels containing the access easement right-of-way
as grantors and all parties retaining access from the access easement right-of-
way as grantees. The easement shall extend and connect to the county’s public
street infrastructure to provide clear access from all building lots or parcels
to a public right-of-way. An applicant proposing a subdivision with access from
an access easement right-of-way shall submit a document detailing the method
for maintaining the access easement right-of-way, private utilities and any
common areas. The document shall be in a form acceptable to the County Attorney
and shall be recorded in the County Recorder’s office.
   (R)   Driveways.
      (1)   Driveways shall be provided for all residential building lots. The
drive approach for the driveway shall be a minimum width of 12 feet and shall
not exceed the maximum width of 40 feet. A secondary drive approach may be
permitted upon review and approval by the County Engineer.
      (2)   Down sloping driveways toward the building envelope shall not be
permitted, unless topographic constraints warrant their construction. Driveways
must comply with the provisions of the adopted International Building Code
regarding drainage adjacent to any structures.
      (3)   For driveways less than 50 feet in length, the maximum slope shall
be 15%. For driveways 50 feet or greater, the maximum grade at which a driveway
shall be allowed to be built is 12%. All driveways shall meet the provisions of
the adopted Fire Code and Wildland Urban Interface Code for grade and
turnaround requirements. Driveways longer than 100 feet, in areas of geologic
instability or steep or loose slope areas, or as determined by the Fire Chief,
Building Official, Zoning Administrator or County Engineer, shall be reviewed
and accepted by the County Engineer prior to issuance of a building permit.
      (4)   A driveway serving no more than one dwelling or lot may be designed
and constructed as an all-weather gravel road, with rolled and compacted road
base capable of supporting a 75,000-pound fire apparatus vehicle, and road base
and subbase that meet geotechnical recommendations. If at any time during
building construction, the gravel driveway becomes impassable, as determined by
the Building Official, Fire Code Official, Zoning Administrator or County
Engineer, a stop work order shall be placed on the building permit until the
road is rehabilitated and inspected to meet this standard. The developer is
responsible to pay all inspection fees prior to the stop work order being
lifted.
      (5)   Driveways serving two or more lots or building envelopes shall be
paved to county construction standards for private lanes.
      (6)   A paved apron is required to be installed for all driveways
accessing from paved streets and rights-of-way, prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
      (7)   Driveways may not be utilized to establish or calculate required
lot frontage.
   (S)   Traffic and street name signs.
      (1)   Traffic and street name signs are to be constructed and installed
by the developer according to county and state standards and shall be
considered required subdivision improvements. No building permits shall be
issued in a subdivision until all street signs are installed.
      (2)   All private street signs are the maintenance and replacement
responsibility of the homeowners’ association, developer or individual property
owner.
   (T)   Change of private right-of-way to public ownership. A note shall be
placed on all subdivision plats that contain a private lane that states the
following.
      (1)   The road(s) annotated on this plat as “private lane” were allowed
alternative construction standards from adopted public or private streets
standards. The county shall not take control of said lanes unless it is first
deemed by the County Commission that there is a compelling public interest, the
streets are brought to public standards and all landowners accessing the street
have consented to the dedication.
      (2)   A private street may only be considered for a change to public
ownership if all of the following findings are met:
         (a)   There is a compelling public interest;
         (b)   All the right-of-way owners sign a petition so requesting; and
         (c)   The right-of-way satisfies the county’s public street width,
cross-section and construction standards.
   (U)   Alternative street design standard for rural subdivisions.
      (1)   A rural subdivision is defined as any subdivision within the county
that has lots of one acre or greater in size, with surrounding parcels or lots
within other subdivisions with similar sizes. This standard may only be used if
adjacent development will not be negatively impacted by the lack of curb,
gutter, or sidewalks. Specifically, if development on either side of the
proposed subdivision already has curbs, gutters, and sidewalks, then this
standard may not be used, and connecting infrastructure shall be constructed.
Any reconstruction of rural roads shall conform to this design standard.
      (2)   The cross-section design shall include the following:
         (a)   Two 12-foot travel lanes.
         (b)   Two six foot wide shoulders.
         (c)   Twelve-foot-wide ditches on both sides of the street, the bottom
of which shall be at the mid-point). Each ditch shall be reinforced with road
base to reduce erosion.
         (d)   Ditch slopes shall not be greater than 3:1 with a maximum depth
of two-feet. Each driveway over the ditch portion shall be paved with a
reinforced concrete culvert pipe engineered and sized to meet flows.
         (e)   The edges of the paved roadway surface shall be thickened
creating a triangle from 3" to 5" starting at 18" from the edge of the roadway.
         (f)   Infrastructure improvements shall be designed in such a way that
if existing sidewalks, curb, and gutter, are located adjacent to proposed rural
street improvements then the final design shall connect the two for public
safety and welfare of pedestrians, bicycles, and ADA types of traffic that
would utilize the shoulders/sidewalks.
         (g)   Performance grade asphalt or chip seal (mixed design) and
testing per County Engineer and approved by the Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-44) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 11-16, passed 12-
6-2011; Ord. 12-02, passed 5-1-2012; Ord. 12-06, passed 6-19-2012; Ord. 12-09,
passed 9-18-2012; Ord. 15-06, passed 6-21-2015; Ord. 16-02, passed 3-15-2016;
Ord. 17-29, passed 5-16-2017; Ord. 18-04, passed 5-15-2018; Ord. 18-10, passed
11-13-2018; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-2019; Ord. 21-06, passed 6-1-2021; Ord.
21-08, passed 7-6-2021; Ord. 23-08, passed 6-6-2023; Ord. 23-10, passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.428 DRAINAGE.
   The subdivider shall construct and install drainage and erosion control
systems. All systems shall be designed for runoff calculated for a 100-year
storm event for detention basins and a ten-year event for all other facilities
and conform to the county’s standards and specifications. A maximum stormwater-
controlled release rate of two-tenths cubic feet per second per acre shall be
the maximum permitted. However, no discharge shall exceed demonstrated
historical flows from any drainage or sum of drainages. Further reductions in
release rates may be required in situations of insufficient stormwater system
capacity. The subdivider shall provide easements for storm drainage, natural
watercourses or channels, streams, creeks, irrigation ditches or floodplains
that intersect, traverse or are within the subdivision. The subdivider shall
also dedicate easements for any pipe, conduit, channel and retention or
detention areas as required by the County Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-45) (Ord. 12-09, passed 9-18-2012; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.429 UTILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise approved by the County Engineer due to the
remote location of the applicable projects, all utilities shall be provided
through underground facilities. All utilities shall be developed in provided
easements and all easements shall extend to each lot line to ensure utility
service accessibility for each lot. All required underground utilities and
utility crossings of roadways specified in this section shall be installed
prior to the installation of road base, surfacing, curbs, gutters and
sidewalks. Underground utilities shall be installed only after streets have
been rough graded to a line and grade approved by the County Engineer. If
underground utilities are not installed prior to street surfacing sleeves shall
be required. No transformers or aboveground utility boxes shall be placed
within the public right-of-way. Inspections shall be required at intervals
determined by the County Engineer.
      (2)   All utilities shall include both wet and dry. Wet utilities shall
be defined as water, secondary water (irrigation), wastewater (sewer), and
storm drainage. Dry utilities shall include electricity, cable (broadband,
fiber, or other high speed internet provider), gas, etc. All subdividers and
developers shall contract individually with utility companies and no utility
shall be allowed in public right-of-way or easements without Morgan County
approved franchise agreements.
   (B)   A culinary water supply shall be available to each lot in the
subdivision and shall be provided in conformance with this chapter, the
standards and specifications of the county, the Weber/Morgan Health Department
and the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking
Water. Well protection areas must be wholly included within each lot (or lots
in the case of a shared well) and shown on the final plat where a well is
proposed as a water source, pursuant to the requirements of the Weber/Morgan
Health Department and the state. Well protection areas shall not include any
portions of public or private streets, or area outside of the plat, without
written approval of the Weber/Morgan Health Department and appropriate
easements from all property owners. Written verification of approvals and
operating permits from outside regulatory agencies is required.
      (1)   Individual or nonpublic shared wells shall only be allowed in
subdivisions that satisfy the following standards:
         (a)   The following table outlines the number of lots allowed within
subdivisions on wells in the following zones:
 
Zoning                            Number of Lots
RR-1 (Rural Residential 1 Acre)   10
RR-5 (Rural Residential 5 Acre)   15
RR-10 (Rural Residential 10 Acre) 20
A-20 (Agriculture)                25
 
         (b)   Wells must be capable of providing 800 gallons per day (gpd) per
equivalent residential connection (ERC) for indoor culinary use and a minimum
of three gallons per minute (gpm) per irrigated acre for outdoor use. The
subdivider must possess, and provide to the county, written documentation
(water right certificate and the like) which grants the legal right to the
required amount of water to each lot within the proposed subdivision.
         (c)   Where a well is proposed to be shared between two or more lots,
written approval from the Weber/Morgan Health Department that the proposed well
meets all requirements is required to be submitted with the preliminary plat
application. A maintenance agreement between the lot owners is required to be
executed prior to plat recordation which identifies maintenance
responsibilities, easements and wellhead protection requirements.
         (d)   Water service lines to lots shall be at least three-fourths inch
diameter. Greater diameter may be required due to grade, pressure, Building
Code and fire sprinkler requirements.
         (e)   Water rights and well permits are required as a condition of
approval for each lot and shall remain with the lot and shall not be
transferred separately from the lot.
         (f)   Septic systems will be prohibited in areas serviced by a public
or quasi- public sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Where an approved culinary water supply system is available or
proposed, the county will require to be installed, at the subdivider’s expense,
water mains, valves, hydrants, service laterals, meter yokes, boxes, lids,
meters (when required prior to the home or building construction by the water
provider) and appurtenances to each lot within the subdivision. The source
shall be capable of delivering 800 gallons per day per equivalent residential
connection for indoor use and three gpm per irrigated acre for outdoor use.
         (a)   Required water storage shall be calculated by the cumulative
requirements of culinary, irrigation and fire suppression requirements, but
shall be no less than 400 gallons per equivalent residential connection for
indoor use, 1,813 gallons of storage for each irrigated acre, and 120,000
gallons for fire suppression.
         (b)   Water service lines to lots shall be at least three-fourths inch
diameter. Greater diameter may be required due to grade, pressure, Building
Code and fire sprinkler requirements.
         (c)   Water and connection rights are required as a condition of
approval for each lot and shall remain with the lot and not be transferred
separately from the lot.
   (C)   Fire suppression: No use shall be permitted unless it is shown that
there is an adequate supply (as per the International Fire Code) of and
immediate access to water for fire protection as determined by the Fire Marshal
for the jurisdiction of the subdivision.
   (D)   If the subdivision is within a sewer improvement district, the
subdivider must connect with a sanitary sewer and provide sewer mains and
extend laterals from the sewer main to each lot in the subdivision, in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the sewer district and the
construction specifications of the county. If individual on-site septic tanks
are proposed, written approval must be provided from the Weber/Morgan Health
Department.
   (E)   Subsurface water drains may be installed at the option of the
subdivider or as required by the County Engineer. All plans for such subsurface
drains proposed by the subdivider shall be reviewed by the County Engineer. All
such subsurface drains shall meet the minimum requirements for design and
construction of such drains, as specified by the county. Upon final inspection
and approval by the County Engineer of such subsurface water drainage system,
the owner shall thereafter maintain the system. The owner shall cause to be
recorded protective covenants providing for mandatory assessment and payment of
fees for each lot or parcel located within the subdivision which covenants
shall run with the land and be binding upon all successors in interest and
assigns of the owner. The maintenance assessments shall constitute a lien on
each lot or parcel located within the subdivision and may be enforced in
accordance with the terms of any applicable subdivision subsurface water drain
maintenance agreement and the protective covenants referred to hereinabove. The
county may, based on the findings and recommendations of a geotechnical report
and other relevant analysis, require that no basements are constructed in
certain areas with identified high water tables. If no basements are allowed, a
note shall be placed on the plat reflecting this requirement.
   (F)   Streetlights shall be provided in all subdivisions where required by
the County Engineer for intersection safety or other public safety purpose as
set forth herein. The subdivider shall pay for the installation, including all
electrical service lines. The subdivider shall provide for the design and
installation of the street lighting system, which conforms to the county’s
design and construction standards and the specifications of Rocky Mountain
Power or other electrical power authority and the adopted Building Code.
Operation costs of streetlights shall be the responsibility of the homeowners’
association, where an HOA exists. All streetlights shall be downward directed
and be compliant with industry standard for dark sky compliance.
   (G)   Utility easements shall be provided within the subdivision as required
for public utility purposes. All lots shall have front and rear yard easements
of ten feet and at least one side yard easement of at least seven feet.
Additional easements, or increased width of easements, may be required as
necessary to provide for adequate utility service and/or drainage within the
subdivision and adjoining parcels. Utilities shall be installed within
dedicated public rights-of-way, other streets or public utility easements,
except for aboveground utility boxes or stations.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-46) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 11-16, passed 12-
6-2011; Ord. 12-12, passed 12-4-2012; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-2019; Ord. 20-
11, passed 9-1-2020; Ord. 23-16, passed 11-7-2023; Ord. 24-09, passed 4-16-
2024)
§ 155.430 SUBDIVISION SURVEY MONUMENTS.
   Prior to the placement or installation of any survey monument within a
subdivision, the subdivider shall obtain approval and verification of the
proposed location of the survey monument from the County Surveyor. Standard
monuments, which are acceptable to the County Surveyor, shall be installed by
the subdivider’s state-licensed professional engineer or professional land
surveyor and shall be part of the required improvements.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-47) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.431 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to receive a building permit until
utilities, roads and other basic improvements are provided as stipulated in §
155.392 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-48) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.432 WARRANTY PERIOD.
   (A)   The improvement assurance warranty period shall commence upon the date
that all improvements required by the county to be installed within the
subdivision or required repairs have been completed to the satisfaction of the
county and an inspection approving the same and a release, which reserves at
least 15% of the approved engineer’s cost estimate for the required
improvements of the security has been made.
   (B)   The warranty period shall continue for one year. The improvement
assurance warranty period may be extended to two years after final acceptance
of the improvement or warranty work in those cases where the county determines
for good cause that a lesser period would be inadequate to protect the public
health, safety and welfare, and has substantial evidence of prior poor
performance of the applicant, unstable soil conditions within the subdivision
or development area that would render impracticable the discovery of
substandard or defective performance within a one-year period; a partial
release of the improvement assurance, if appropriate, is provided; and the
county establishes objective inspection standards for final acceptance of the
required improvements.
   (C)   The subdivider shall warrant that the materials and quality of work of
improvements comport with adopted county design and construction standards and
will not fail in any material aspect during the warranty period by reason of
any defect in quality of work and material.
   (D)   If any defects or deficiencies in materials or quality of work are
found by the county during the warranty period or that the improvements,
including, without limitation, landscaping improvements, fire hydrants,
sidewalks, storm drains, sanitary sewer improvements, roads (including utility
settling), street signs, meter pits and curb and gutter have failed in any
material aspect, the subdivider shall promptly resolve such defects or
deficiencies and request the County Engineer to reinspect the improvements.
Thereafter the repairs may, at the discretion of the County Engineer in
accordance with state law, be subject to an additional warranty period.
   (E)   At the end of the warranty period the subdivider shall request the
County Engineer to make a final inspection of all improvements pursuant to the
county’s objective inspection standards. If the County Engineer verifies that
the improvements are acceptable, the county shall issue an acceptance letter
authorizing the release of the balance of the security posted by the
subdivider.
   (F)   Any subdivision inspections that include living plant materials, parks
or park strips will only be performed between April 15 and October 30, in
accordance with this chapter. Inspection of other county-required improvements
during cool climates, inclement weather or between October 30 and April 15 will
be subject to a finding by the County Engineer that such installation can be
satisfactorily inspected.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-49) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.433 CONSTRUCTION AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Standards for design, construction specifications, inspection of the street
improvements, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and standards for design, construction
specifications and inspection of water distribution systems, irrigation
ditches, sewage disposal facilities, storm drainage and detention facilities,
streetlights, street signs, sanitary sewer, fences, fire hydrants, parks and
trails construction and flood control facilities shall be prepared by the
County Engineer and adopted by the county. All subdivision standards and
specifications and amendments thereto which are under the control of the county
shall be approved by the County Commission before becoming effective. The
County Commission may by resolution adopt subdivision standards and
specifications for the county which may be amended from time to time. All
subdividers shall comply with all subdivision standards and specifications
adopted by the County Commission. All required improvements shall be installed
in accordance with the county’s standards, as administered by the County
Engineer and the County Surveyor, the subdivision improvements agreement
between the subdivider and the county and all other applicable county
ordinances and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-50) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.434 COMPLETION.
   A complete set of record drawings (“as built” drawings) shall be filed with
the County Engineer upon completion of the required improvements and prior to
commencement of the warranty period. The record drawings shall be on
reproducible Mylar copies of the original tracings and certified as to accuracy
and completeness by the subdivider’s state-licensed professional engineer.
Additionally, the subdivider shall submit electronic copies of the record
drawings in AutoCAD (DWG) format.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-51) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.435 DEVELOPMENT FEES AND TAXES.
   (A)   No final plat shall be approved by the County Commission or Zoning
Administrator or recorded and no building or other permits required by the
ordinances of the county shall be issued, unless the subdivider shall first pay
to the county all applicable fees required under the county’s fee schedule.
   (B)   All improvements inspection fees, development review and consulting
fees and outstanding taxes, including any greenbelt rollback taxes, shall be
paid to the county prior to the recordation of the plat, per the county’s fee
schedule and tax assessments.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-52) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.436 SMALL SUBDIVISION.
   A SMALL SUBDIVISION shall be defined as a subdivision of ten lots or fewer
from a parcel which meets the following criteria:
   (A)   The parcel proposed to be subdivided currently has the zoning
designation required for the minimum lot sizes proposed;
   (B)   Where required by this chapter, all lots shall have acceptable access
to a public street, either by direct frontage or through access by an approved
private street. Public and private street standards must meet standard county
cross-sections and adopted specifications and the requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Each lot within the proposed subdivision must meet the frontage, width
and area requirements of the zone district in which it is to be located; and
   (D)   The proposed lots are not part of an existing, platted, recorded
subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-53) (Ord. 14-05, passed 7-15-2014; Ord. 17-06, passed 2-7-
2017; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 155.437 APPROVAL AUTHORITY; SMALL SUBDIVISIONS.
   In the case of small subdivisions, the Planning Commission shall have the
ability to approve, approve with conditions or deny a small subdivision in
accordance with the regulations outlined in this subchapter. Alternatively, the
Planning Commission may direct that the application follows the standard
procedures for subdivision approval, as provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
The applicant may appeal the decision of the Planning Commission to the County
Commission as outlined elsewhere in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-54) (Ord. 15-06, passed 6-21-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.438 SUBMISSION OF SMALL SUBDIVISION.
   The subdivider shall submit a complete application for a small subdivision
to the county’s Planning and Development Services Department, along with a
completed application and application fee. The proposed small subdivision
application shall include all of the information required for a complete
preliminary and final plat application as outlined in §§
155.407,
155.413,
155.414 and
155.415 of this code, and other applicable sections of this chapter, with the
exception of the final Mylar for signature. The fee for small subdivisions
shall be based on the county’s adopted fee schedule. Small subdivisions shall
meet all the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-55) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.439 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   The county’s Planning and Development Services Department, upon
receipt of a complete application for small subdivision, shall distribute
copies of the plan to such government departments and other agencies or
advisors as in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator may contribute to a
decision in the best interest of the public. The County Surveyor, County
Engineer and Fire Code Official shall review all subdivision applications.
   (B)   The applicant shall be responsible to submit noticing information and
fees and adhere to the noticing requirements of §§
155.031 and
155.032 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-56) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.440 REVIEW BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF SMALL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Once comment has been received from all notified government
departments, agencies and property owners, the county’s Planning and
Development Services Department shall review the submitted small subdivision
application and check compliance with relevant requirements of the county’s
General Plan, Land Use Management Code and other appropriate regulations, and
shall present a staff report to the Planning Commission. Based on this staff
report, the Planning Commission shall make findings regarding the submitted
small subdivision plan, specifying the approval, approval with conditions or
denial of the subdivision, or specifying any inadequacy in the information
submitted, noncompliance with county regulations, questionable or undesirable
design and/or engineering. The Planning Commission may also make a
determination that the small subdivision is required to proceed through the
normal subdivision process. The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a notice of
decision and deliver it to the applicant within a reasonable period following
the review, outlining the decision of the Planning Commission, including any
findings and/or conditions of approval.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall take the following into account when
determining whether the application will require standard subdivision review:
      (1)   The size of the proposed development;
      (2)   Whether the subdivision lies within the Sensitive Area District or
geologic hazard study area;
      (3)   Compliance with county ordinances and relevant sections of the
county’s General Plan;
      (4)   Requests for exceptions or modifications;
      (5)   Compatibility with surrounding properties; and
      (6)   Whether the proposal is routine and uncontested.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may require additional information, data or
studies to be provided by the applicant for the subdivision before any
determination is made as to the acceptability of the proposed subdivision.
   (D)   The Planning Commission may, after review of the plan and comment from
other departments and agencies, direct the applicant to follow the standard
procedures required for subdivision, as described in this subchapter.
   (E)   The applicant may appeal any decision of the Planning Commission to
the County Commission within 14 days of the notice of decision. The appeal must
be submitted in writing to the county’s Planning and Development Services
Department. The County Commission shall then, during a public meeting, review
the record of the decision and determine if the Planning Commission’s decision
was in accordance with this chapter. If the Planning Commission’s decision is
found to not be in accordance with this chapter, the application shall be
remanded, with comment regarding the County Commission’s action, to the
Planning Commission for additional review.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator shall provide notification of any final
decision regarding a small subdivision to the Planning Commission and the
County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-57) (Ord. 15-06, passed 6-21-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.441 RECORDATION OF THE SMALL SUBDIVISION.
   Once an approval of a small subdivision has been granted, the applicant
shall submit to the county’s Planning and Development Services Department the
final Mylar, construction drawings, AutoCAD (DWG) files, improvements
guarantee, title report and all other final submittal requirements which comply
with the requirements of this subchapter. The final plat shall contain all
appropriate signature blocks, as noted in this subchapter, except the County
Commission signature block, which is to be omitted. All final submittals shall
also be reviewed and approved by the County Engineer and County Surveyor, as
outlined in §§
155.416 and
155.417 of this code, and County Attorney, as outlined in §
155.421 of this code. All requirements found in this chapter for subdivision
plat recording apply to small subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-58) (Ord. 15-06, passed 6-21-2015; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.442 EXPIRATION OF SMALL SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   Once written approval of the small subdivision has been granted, the
subdivider shall have two years to record the subdivision. If recordation has
not taken place within the specified time limitation, the approval shall become
null and void. This time period may be extended by the Zoning Administrator for
up to an additional one-year period for good cause shown. The subdivider must
petition in writing for this extension prior to the expiration of the original
two-year period.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-59) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019; Ord. 23-07, passed 3-21-2023)
§ 155.443 AMENDMENTS TO RECORDED SUBDIVISION PLATS (PRUD/PUD AMENDMENTS).
   (A)   Any fee owner of property, as shown on the last county assessment
roll, in a subdivision that ]has been laid out and platted may file a written
petition to the county requesting to vacate or amend the subdivision plat. The
petition shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of all owners of record of the land contained
in the entire subdivision plat, or that portion of the plat described in the
petition;
      (2)   The name and address of all owners of record of land adjacent to,
accessed by or within 300 feet of the public street, right-of-way or easement
that is proposed to be vacated, altered or amended;
      (3)   The signature of each of the owners identified in divisions (A)(1)
and (A)(2) above who consents to the petition; and
      (4)   The appropriate fee(s) as set forth in the county’s fee schedule.
   (B)   The county, on its own initiative, may consider the vacation or
amendment of a subdivision plat. The procedure for such consideration shall be
as set out in this subchapter.
   (C)   A previously approved and recorded planned unit development (PUD) or
planned residential unit development (PRUD) may be amended if the following
requirements and restrictions are met:
      (1)   No additional building lots may be created. Lot lines within the
development may be adjusted;
      (2)   The amount of existing open space, both common and private, shall
remain the same. In no case shall the amended plat reduce or eliminate the
requirements for open space;
      (3)   The overall area of the PUD or PRUD may only be increased through
an amendment to the development agreement and/or an affidavit of amending plat
notes; and
      (4)   An amendment to the development agreement shall be required and/or
an affidavit of amending plat notes.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-60) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 17-14, passed 2-7-
2017; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-2019) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.444 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For plat amendments that result in adjusting and/or altering lot lines
through an exchange of title within a platted subdivision the Zoning
Administrator shall be the land use authority:
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall approve an exchange of title under
this division (A) if the exchange of title will not result in a violation of
any land use ordinance;
      (2)   If an exchange of title is approved under this division (A), a
notice of approval shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder
which:
         (a)   Is executed by each owner included in the exchange and by the
land use authority;
         (b)   Contains an acknowledgment for each party executing the notice
in accordance with the provisions of UCA § 57-2a, Recognition of
Acknowledgments Act; and
         (c)   Recites the descriptions of both the original parcels and the
parcels created by the exchange of title.
      (3)   A document of conveyance of title reflecting the approved change
shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder; and
      (4)   A notice of approval recorded under this division (A) does not act
as a conveyance of title to real property and is not required to record a
document conveying title to real property.
   (B)   For plat amendments that result in the combination of lots, building
pad adjustments, subdivision title changes, plat note revisions, amendments to
internal lot restrictions, the alteration, amendment or vacation of a public or
private road shown on a subdivision plat and all other modifications to lots
within a recorded subdivision plat shall be reviewed by the County Commission
with a recommendation from the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Applications to vacate or amend a subdivision plat shall be required
to submit those documents required for review in a complete preliminary plat
application which pertain to and describe the proposed amendment, as well as a
paper copy of the proposed final plat Mylar. Revised construction drawings
shall also be submitted when changes to any required subdivision improvements
are proposed.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a petition or a proposal to vacate or amend a
subdivision plat which requires action by the County Commission, the matter
shall be referred to the Planning Commission for a recommendation on the
proposal.
   (E)   The land use authority shall hold a public hearing within 45 days
after the day on which the petition is filed if:
      (1)   Any owner within the plat notifies the county of the owner’s
objection in writing within ten days of mailed notification; or
      (2)   A public hearing is required because all the owners in the
subdivision have not signed the revised plat.
   (F)   The land use authority may consider at a public meeting, without a
public hearing, an owner’s petition to vacate or amend a subdivision plat if:
      (1)   The petition seeks to join two or more of the petitioning fee
owner’s contiguous lots;
      (2)   Subdivide one or more of the petitioner’s fee owner’s lots if the
subdivision will not result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a
development condition;
      (3)   Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or parcels if the fee owners
of each of the adjoining lots or parcels join the petition, regardless of
whether the lots and parcels are in the same subdivision;
      (4)   On a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot
restriction imposed by the county;
      (5)   Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries
or other attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not owned by the
petitioner or designated as common area; and
      (6)   Notice has been given to adjacent property, in accordance with §
155.031 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-61) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.445 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of any proposed plat amendment shall be given as required by §
155.031 of this code.
   (B)   The petitioner for any proposed plat amendment shall pay the costs for
any notices required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-62) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.446 GROUNDS FOR VACATING OR CHANGING A PLAT.
   (A)   The land use authority may approve the vacation, alteration or
amendment of a plat by signing an amended plat showing the vacation, alteration
or amendment if the land use authority finds that:
      (1)   There is good cause for the vacation, alteration or amendment; and
      (2)   No public street, right-of-way or easement has been vacated or
altered.
   (B)   The land use authority shall ensure that the amended plat showing the
vacation, alteration or amendment is recorded in the office of the County
Recorder.
   (C)   If an entire subdivision is vacated, the County Commission shall
ensure that a resolution containing a legal description of the entire vacated
subdivision is recorded in the County Recorder’s office.
   (D)   The County Commission may adopt an ordinance granting a petition to
vacate some or all of a public street, right-of-way or easement if the
legislative body finds that:
      (1)   Good cause exists for the vacation; and
      (2)   Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially
injured by the vacation.
   (E)   If the County Commission adopts an ordinance vacating some or all of a
public street, right-of-way or easement, the County Commission shall ensure
that a plat reflecting the vacation and/or an ordinance describing the
vacations is recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   (F)   The action of the legislative body vacating some or all of a street,
right-of-way or easement that has been dedicated to public use:
      (1)   Operates to the extent to which it is vacated, upon the effective
date of the recorded plat, as a revocation of the acceptance of and the
relinquishment of the county’s fee in the vacated street, right-of-way or
easement; and
      (2)   May not be construed to impair:
         (a)   Any right-of-way or easement of any lot owner; or
         (b)   The franchise rights of any public utility.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-63) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.447 AMENDED PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the County Commission’s approval of a petition or proposal to
amend a subdivision plat, the petitioner or sponsor shall deliver to the county
an amended plat map and complete supporting preliminary plat and final plat
information in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter. The
applicant shall also pay all fees required by the county’s fee schedule.
   (B)   Upon approval of the plat amendment, all required documents,
submissions, signatures and review procedures which are required for a final
plat shall be submitted and followed, prior to recordation in the office of the
County Recorder.
   (C)   The County Commission may vacate a subdivision or a portion of a
subdivision by recording in the County Recorder’s office an ordinance
describing the subdivision or the portion being vacated.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-64) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.448 LOT LINE AND PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   To make a parcel line adjustment, a property owner shall:
      (1)   Execute a boundary adjustment through:
         (a)   A quitclaim deed; or
         (b)   A boundary line agreement under UCA § 17-27a-523.
      (2)   Record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement described in
division (A)(1)(a) above in the office of the County Recorder of the county in
which each property is located.
   (B)   To make a lot line adjustment, a property owner shall:
      (1)   Obtain approval of the boundary adjustment under UCA § 17-27a-608;
      (2)   Execute a boundary adjustment through:
         (a)   A quitclaim deed; or
         (b)   A boundary line agreement under UCA § 17-27a-523.
      (3)   Record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement described in
the state statutes in the office of the County Recorder of the county in which
each property is located.
   (C)   A parcel boundary adjustment under the state statutes is not subject
to review of a land use authority unless:
       (1)   The parcel includes a dwelling; and
      (2)   The land use authority’s approval is required under UCA § 17-27a-
523(5).
   (D)   The recording of a boundary line agreement or other document used to
adjust a mutual boundary line that is not subject to review of a land use
authority:
      (1)   Does not constitute a land use approval; and
      (2)   Does not affect the validity of the boundary line agreement or
other document used to adjust a mutual boundary line.
   (E)   The county may withhold approval of a land use application for
property that is subject to a recorded boundary line agreement or other
document used to adjust a mutual boundary line if the county determines that
the lots or parcels, as adjusted by the boundary line agreement or other
document used to adjust the mutual boundary line, are not in compliance with
the county’s land use regulations in effect on the day on which the boundary
line agreement or other document used to adjust the mutual boundary line is
recorded.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-65) (Ord. 17-18, passed 3-21-2017; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019; Ord. 21-09, passed 7-6-2021)
§ 155.449 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   Pursuant to UCA § 17-27a-605, an owner of at least 100 contiguous acres of
agricultural land may make one new minor subdivision parcel by submitting for
recording with the County Recorder:
   (A)   A recordable deed containing the legal description of the minor
subdivision lot, along with a record of survey which created the parcel
description;
   (B)   A notice:
      (1)   Indicating that the owner of the land to be divided is making a
minor subdivision, which refers specifically to the authority to do so as
granted by UCA § 17-27a-605; and
      (2)   Containing the legal description of:
         (a)   The land to be divided; and
         (b)   The minor subdivision lot.
   (C)   Standards for minor subdivision lot approval:
      (1)   The minor subdivision lot may not be less than one acre in size;
      (2)   The minor subdivision lot may not be within 1,000 feet of another
minor subdivision lot;
      (3)   The minor subdivision lot is not subject to the subdivision
ordinance of the county in which the minor subdivision lot is located; and
      (4)   Land to be divided by a minor subdivision may not include divided
land. Divided land is described as the land to be divided in a notice under
division (B) above or land that has been previously divided as a minor
subdivision.
   (D)   The county:
      (1)   May not deny a building permit to an owner of a minor subdivision
lot based on:
         (a)   The lot’s status as a minor subdivision lot; or
         (b)   The absence of standards described in division (E) below.
      (2)   May, in connection with the issuance of a building permit, subject
a minor subdivision lot to reasonable health, safety and access standards that
the county has established and made public.
   (E)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit on a minor subdivision lot,
the following information shall be provided to the county, in addition to any
submittal requirements of the county’s Building Official and Fire Code
Official:
      (1)   A site plan showing the location of the proposed building in
relation to parcel boundaries prepared by a surveyor licensed in the state, to
ensure that the building meets all setback standards of the zone in which the
minor subdivision lot resides, pursuant to this code;
      (2)   Proof of purchase of a culinary water right, including copies of
the actual certificate and right and verification of wet water that will
provide culinary and fire suppression requirements, pursuant to the health and
safety requirements for water supply found in this subchapter;
      (3)   Evidence of legal access to the property that complies with this
code’s safety standards for streets and driveways in subdivisions and the
provisions of the Wildland Urban Interface Code;
      (4)   Written verification from the Fire Code Official that the proposed
building site complies with the provisions for adequate fire suppression and
access in this subchapter, the adopted Fire Code and Wildland Urban Interface
Code, including automatic fire extinguishing sprinkler system design approval;
and
      (5)   Evidence of wastewater permit, water source protection area and
final well approval from the Weber/Morgan Health Department for the new minor
subdivision lot.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator is the land use authority for minor
subdivisions and shall verify any conditions of approval of the subdivision and
building permit in writing prior to the recording of the minor subdivision lot
and the issuance of a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-66) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.450 CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS.
   Whenever a subdivision is proposed that would meet the definition of a
“condominium project,” as defined herein and UCA § 57-8-3, as amended, such
subdivision shall meet the procedural requirements of this chapter for concept
plan, preliminary and final subdivision plat applications and the requirements
of the Condominium Ownership Act, UCA §§ 57-8-1 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-67) (Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-
15-2019)
§ 155.451 SB 174 TEMPORARY LAND USE.
   (A)   Single-family, two-family and townhome subdivisions. This section is a
temporary land use regulation applicable to subdivisions for single-family
dwellings, two-family dwelling, or townhomes. This section shall be applicable
for a period of 180 days after its effective date and does not apply to land
use regulations adopted, approved, or agreed upon by the County Commission
exercising land use authority in the review of land use applications for zoning
or other land use regulation approvals. The review cycle restrictions and
requirements of this section do not apply to review of subdivision applications
affecting property within identified sensitive areas as defined in §
155.008 and otherwise described in
Chapter 155 of the county code. To the extent that other provisions of the
county code are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Chapter 155, the requirements pertaining to the review cycles set forth in this
Chapter 155 shall apply.
   (B)   Definitions. Please refer to §§
155.002 and
155.008 of this title for definitions.
   (C)   Designation of an administrative authority.
      (1)   Morgan County hereby designates the Planning Commission to review
and approve preliminary subdivision applications.
      (2)   Morgan County hereby designates the Planning Director to review and
approve final subdivision applications.
   (D)   Pre-application process.
      (1)   If an applicant requests a pre-application meeting, the Planning
Director shall, within 15 business days after the request, schedule the meeting
to review the concept plan and give initial feedback.
      (2)   At a pre-application meeting, the staff shall provide or make
publicly available the following:
         (a)   Copies of applicable land use regulations;
         (b)   A complete list of standards required for the project;
         (c)   Preliminary and final application checklists; and
         (d)   Feedback on the concept plan.
   (E)   Preliminary application process.
      (1)   The application for preliminary subdivision applications and
materials can be found on the Morgan County website and at the Morgan County
Planning and Development office. The application shall include:
         (a)   An owner's affidavit;
         (b)   An electronic copy of all plans in PDF format;
         (c)   The preliminary subdivision plat drawings; and
         (d)   A breakdown of fees due upon application.
      (2)   The administrative authority may complete a preliminary subdivision
application review in a public meeting or at a county staff level. If the
administrative authority holds a public meeting for a preliminary subdivision
application under this section, the administrative authority may receive public
comment and may hold no more than one public hearing.
      (3)   No later than 15 business days after the day on which an applicant
submits a complete application, the county shall complete a review of the
applicant's preliminary subdivision land use application for a residential
subdivision for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes,
including subdivision improvement plans.
      (4)   In reviewing the preliminary subdivision land use application, the
county may require:
         (a)   Additional information relating to an applicant's plans to
ensure compliance with county ordinances and approved standards and
specifications for construction of public improvements; and
         (b)   Modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances,
applicable standards or specifications, or do not contain complete information.
      (5)   The county's request for additional information or modifications to
plans shall be specific and include citations to all county ordinances,
standards or specifications that require the modifications to plans, and shall
be logged in an index of requested modifications or additions.
   (F)   Final application process.
      (1)   The application for final subdivision applications and materials
can be found on the Morgan County website and at the Morgan County Planning and
Development office.
      (2)   No later than 20 business days after the day on which an applicant
submits a complete application, the county shall complete a review of the
applicant's final subdivision land use application for a residential
subdivision for single-family dwelling, two-family dwellings, or townhomes
including all subdivision plan reviews.
      (3)   In reviewing the final subdivision land use application, the county
may require:
         (a)   Additional information relating to an applicant's plans to
ensure compliance with county ordinances and approved standards and
specifications for construction of public improvements; and
         (b)   Modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances,
applicable standards, or specifications, or do not contain complete
information.
      (4)   The county's request for additional information or modifications to
plans shall be specific and include citations to all county ordinances,
standards, or specifications that require the modifications to plans, and shall
be logged in an index of requested modifications or additions.
   (G)   Review cycle process for preliminary and final applications.
      (1)   A "review cycle" of a preliminary or a final application shall
consist of the applicant's submission of a complete subdivision land use
application, the county's review of that subdivision land use application, the
county's response to that subdivision land use application, and the applicant's
reply to the county's response that addresses each of the county's required
modifications or requests for additional information.
      (2)   A review cycle shall be completed within 20 business days after the
day on which an applicant submits a complete subdivision land use application.
If an applicant does not submit a revised plan within 20 business days after
the county requires a modification or requests additional information then the
county shall have an additional 20 business days to respond to the plans.
      (3)   There shall be no more than a total of four review cycles for any
applicant whether such review cycles occur in the preliminary application or
final application process.
      (4)   Except for a modification or correction necessary to protect public
health and safety or to enforce state or federal law, which may not be waived,
unless the change or correction is necessitated by the applicant's adjustment
to a plan set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts the infrastructure
needed for the specific development, a change or correction not addressed or
referenced in the county's plan review is waived.
      (5)   If an applicant makes a material change to a plan set, the county
has the discretion to start the review process at the first review of the final
application, but only with respect to the portion of the plan set that the
material change substantially effects.
      (6)   After the applicant has responded to the final review cycle, and
the applicant has complied with each modification requested in the county's
previous review cycle, the county may not require additional revisions if the
applicant has not materially changed the plan, other than changes that were in
response to requested modifications or corrections.
      (7)   In addition to revised plans, an applicant shall provide a written
explanation in response to the county's review comments, identifying and
explaining the applicant's revisions and reasons for declining to make
revisions, if any. The applicant's written explanation shall be comprehensive
and specific, including citations to applicable standards and ordinances for
the design and an index of requested revisions or additions for each required
correction.
      (8)   If an applicant fails to address a review comment in the response,
the review cycle is not complete and the subsequent review cycle by the county
shall not commence until all comments are addressed.
   (H)   Appeals after final review cycle.
      (1)   If on the fourth or final review, the county fails to respond
within 20 business days, the county shall, upon request of the property owner,
and within ten business days after the day on which the request is received:
         (a)   For a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans,
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with UCA § 17-27a-507(5)(d) to review
and approve or deny the final revised set of plans. Unless otherwise agreed by
the applicant and the county, the panel shall consist of the following three
experts:
            1.   One licensed engineer, designated by the county;
            2.   One licensed engineer, designated by the land use applicant;
and
            3.   One licensed engineer agreed upon and designated by the two
designated engineers as appointed in divisions 1. and 2. above.
               a.   A member of the panel assembled by the county under
division (a) may not have an interest in the application that is the subject of
the appeal.
               b.   The land use applicant shall pay: (i) 50% of the cost of
the panel; and (ii) the county's published appeal fee.
         (b)   For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review,
advise the applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the application and of
the right to appeal the determination to a designated appeal authority.
   (I)   Approval of the final subdivision application. Approval of a final
subdivision application shall not require Planning Commission or County
Commission approval. If a final subdivision application complies with the
requirements of this section and applicable county ordinances, the county shall
approve the final subdivision application.
(Ord. 24-01, passed1-16-2024)
PLANNED COMMUNITY (P-C) ZONE
§ 155.455 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Planned Community (P-C) Zone Overlay is to provide
a regulatory tool which allows large properties in Morgan County to be
developed in accordance with a specific plan designed to promote the following:
      (1)   High quality, innovative and creative development that includes a
mixture of uses in accordance with the land use styles listed below, heights
and setbacks, varying densities and lot sizes and sufficient diversity of
housing types to meet the full life cycle of housing needs of Morgan County
residents;
      (2)   Preservation of open space;
      (3)   Retail, employment and recreational uses that meet or exceed the
needs of the residents of the P-C Zone Overlay;
      (4)   A bicycle and pedestrian friendly environment; and
      (5)   A desirable living and working environment with unique identity and
character.
   (B)   This chapter establishes an approval and entitlement process to
promote inventive and efficient land use patterns that would otherwise be
difficult under typical zoning ordinances. Developments requesting the P-C zone
overlay may include various mixes of non-residential and residential uses based
on land use styles. Site design, including structures within the development
shall be evaluated and reviewed through the site plan process contained in this
code.
   (C)   The goal of this zoning district is to provide applicants an
opportunity to create a tailor-made zoning district that will provide for a
better development than what could be created and required by the county by
using the existing specific zoning districts. Further, the rezoning process to
the P-C district overlay is a legislative decision made by the County
Commission. The applicant will need to demonstrate how the proposal to the P-
C zoning district will create a development that exceeds the standards of the
zoning ordinance to which a normal development would be held. Some examples of
allowed entitlements and benefits would be additional density, variable land
use standards, and increase to required amenities not normally required by the
other zoning districts, protection of open space areas, and recreational
infrastructure.
   (D)   Permitted densities and intensity of land use in villages and town
centers may be higher than those permitted in neighborhoods, a general outline
of such are included below.
(Ord. 23-19, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.456 GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT.
   The submittal requirements for the P-C zoning district overlay are
extensive. As such, a general plan future land use map amendment shall be
required prior to submittal of the formal rezoning. The future land use map
amendment submittal shall be required to allow the applicant to present a draft
of their proposal to the public and the applicable land use bodies. The
submittal requirements shall include an application form, a preliminary concept
development plan, and a preliminary narrative describing in general terms the
overall goal of the project. Exception: If the overlay is proposed to be used
with existing zoning in order to cluster density, then a future land use map
amendment shall not be required.
(Ord. 23-19, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.457 LAND USE STYLES.
   (A)   Each P-C zone overlay shall establish land uses and development
patterns, densities, and standards unique to the development's adopted
ordinance. Upon approval, through the process set forth in this chapter, the
established land uses and development patterns, densities, and standards shall
be established pursuant to the P-C zone overlay plan, a narrative describing
the proposed development patterns, zoning entitlements, densities, design
criteria, and other stipulated design requirements, and one or more development
agreements. The P-C zone overlay may consist of any number or combination of
land use styles defined below. Each style proposed shall be identified in the
applicant's community structure plan. The following general land use styles
shall be incorporated into the narrative.
      (1)   Rural. This style of development is specifically for very low to
low density development within the rural areas of the county. Total density
would be equal to or less than one dwelling per gross acre to provide
clustering opportunities to maximize open space preservation, reduce overall
infrastructure requirements and impacts to the land. This land development
style shall refer only to lots that are one acre or greater in size.
      (2)   Neighborhood. This category is designed for comparatively low
density residential or mixed-use development that provides for single-family
residential development, with opportunities for neighborhood commercial type
uses at major street intersections. Neighborhood residential densities are to
range between one and four dwelling units per gross acre. Zoning districts that
are limited to this style include R1-20, R1-12, R1-8, and NC.
      (3)   Village. This category is designed for medium density mixed use
development that includes residential (single- and multi-family) and commercial
uses. Village residential densities are to range between four and 15 units per
gross acre. Zoning districts are limited to RM-7 and RM-15, as well as CB, NC,
CS, CH, and GC.
      (4)   Central Business District. This category is for higher density
mixed use projects that emphasizes residential, commercial, and recreational
uses. Zoning districts are limited to RM-7, RM-15, and all commercial
districts.
      (5)   Business and research park. This category is to be a mixture of
business uses: office, commercial, and industrial. If this type of development
is to be a portion of the overall planned community zone overlay then planned
residential areas of the development and other business park or industrial type
uses shall require a buffer zone of open space, multi-family, or commercial
development. Specifically, open space, commercial, and multi-family development
patterns shall be required between surrounding single-family or low-density
development and the business park area.
      (6)   Open space. Landscaped natural area or farmland that is established
to provide and preserve outdoor recreational, agricultural, trails, parks, and
other amenities. Open space is a required component of all P-C zoned properties
as it will be used to offset the additional density that otherwise would not be
allowed through conventional zoning classifications.
   (B)   Areas denoted as open space as part of clustering shall be preserved
and shown on the zoning map as an indication that no further development
potential shall be derived from these areas of the development.
(Ord. 23-19, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.458 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Applicants for the P-C zoning overlay district shall clearly define the
proposed development within a master development plan that shall be recorded as
part of the zoning adoption. This development plan document shall include all
of the following items and detail split into two tiers of development subject
to total project size:
   (A)   Tier 1 - (50 acres or less).
      (1)   General requirement:
         (a)   Narrative document;
         (b)   Preliminary development plan - types of uses;
         (c)   Proposed uses defined;
         (d)   Proposed development standards:
            1.   Lot area;
            2.   Lot coverage;
            3.   Max building height; and
            4.   Proposed setbacks;
         (e)   Design guidelines:
            1.   Architectural design;
            2.   Elevations/styles; and
            3.   Parking standards;
         (f)   Landscape and open space; and
         (g)   Photos taken from each side and corner of the development area
showing both the property and surrounding area.
      (2)   Required maps and attachments:
         (a)   Vicinity map;
         (b)   Conceptual development plan;
         (c)   Conceptual landscape plan; and
         (d)   Conceptual circulation plan.
   (B)   Tier 2 (greater than 50 acres).
      (1)   General submittal requirements for Tier 2 projects shall include
all of the requirements for Tier 1 projects plus the following items:
         (a)   Preliminary grading and drainage plans;
         (b)   Preliminary geohazards/geotech soils report;
         (c)   Preliminary infrastructure and utility plans;
         (d)   Traffic impact analysis, with proposed and anticipated
infrastructure improvements to be required; and
         (e)   Slope analysis.
(Ord. 23-19, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.459 P-C ZONE OVERLAY; MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Single-family residential development. Each P-C zone overlay that
incorporates residential development shall contain a minimum of 50 acres unless
otherwise approved by the County Commission. However, any such reduction shall
not be less than 15 acres.
   (B)   Multi-family, commercial, and industrial development. Each P-C zone
overlay that is for multi-family, commercial, and industrial shall contain a
minimum of ten acres unless otherwise approved by the County Commission.
However, any such reduction shall not be less than five acres.
   (C)   If the P-C Zone contains multiple owners, the owners may, if necessary
to reach the minimum acreage requirement owners of multiple parcels may combine
their properties for planning and development purposes.
   (D)   The following criteria shall be used by the County Commission to
justify a reduction in required development acreage:
      (1)   The proposal would provide additional benefits to the county above
the requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   The proposed development incorporates additional inventive measures
that provide for housing affordability;
      (3)   The proposed development will incorporate additional measures to
promote efficient land use patterns;
      (4)   The proposed development would lessen congestion, or improve on
areas of access; or
      (5)   The proposed reduction of acreage would allow for the preservation
of an environmental resource or promote a more pedestrian friendly environment.
(Ord. 23-19, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.460 PLANNING AND APPROVAL PROCESS FOR P-C ZONE OVERLAY.
   (A)   P-C zone overlay approval is a legislative decision of the land use
authority for the county. It will require staff to review and draft a staff
report for the proposed development. After which it will be placed on a
Planning Commission meeting to receive a recommendation of either approval or
denial and then forwarded to the County Commission for final decision.
   
   (B)   Approval of the development plan shall be processed concurrently with
any and all development agreements associated with the project.
   (C)   Approval of the P-C zone overlay shall be by ordinance. The
development plan shall be recorded as part of that ordinance. The ordinance,
with accompanying development plan, provides the preliminary master plan for
the development and defines the applicable standards that shall be followed for
future subdivision and site plan applications. The zoning map shall identify P-
C zone overlay property as follows: P-C Ord. #    -       .
(Ord. 23-19, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.461 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Site plans may be reviewed concurrently with a project's development
plan or subdivision plat. Any proposed commercial, office, industrial, multi-
family residential, open space, parks, or institutional developments and
alterations to existing developments shall be located on legal lots of record
created by metes and bounds conveyance with the approval of the county staff or
pursuant to subdivision or condominium plats and shall meet the site plan
review requirements outlined in this title. All county ordinances, including
the P-C zone overlay adopted for the project and other requirements shall be
met in preparing site plan applications and in designing and constructing the
development. Where applicable, building permits may not be obtained nor shall
any site work be performed prior to site plan approval as set forth in this
title.
   (B)   All administrative applications (site plan and subdivision review)
shall be required to following the approval of the P-C zone overlay. Concurrent
review of the administrative applications shall not be allowed. The Land Use
Authority for site plan review shall be the Zoning Administrator if the
application shows that the site plan is in general conformance with the
conceptual development plan that was adopted by the County Commission.
(Ord. 23-19, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.462 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Open space.
      (1)   (a)   Open space is landscaped area, natural area, or farmland,
which is established to provide and preserve recreational, agricultural, or
other uses in the P-C zone overlay as approved by the County Commission. The
applicable conceptual development plan and the project's development standards
shall govern the use and character of the open space. Each P-C zone overlay
shall contain a minimum open space area of the development as defined in the
sections below.
         (b)   Open space will be recorded as a lot or lots in subdivisions or
as common area in multi-family and non-residential developments and shall be
maintained as open space through the creation of a conservation easement,
designating the area as open space on the zoning map, or some other agreement
as is approved by the land use authority in connection with project plan. This
open space area shall have no further development potential as that potential
was clustered within the developable area.
      (2)   Open space within rural subdivisions (those single-family
residential developments with lot sizes of one acre or greater) shall preserve
50% of the total area for open space.
      (3)   Open space within all other developments (single-family less than
one acre, multi- family, and all non-residential development) shall contain a
minimum of 20% open space.
      (4)   Open space shall be divided into passive and active landscaped
areas and amenities. The area required as defined above shall include 50%
active, and 50% passive.
      (5)   The 50% active area has two main options. It shall be required to
be all accessible to the public, or a 50-50 split such that all developments
shall provide at least half of the active open space and amenities for public
use. The other half may be set aside for private use for the residents of the
development. Public use is subject to the reasonable rules and regulations
imposed upon the use of the property by the development. Ownership of these
open space areas shall be owned and maintained by the development (i.e. Home
Owners Association).
      (6)   Active open space and amenities shall be defined as trails, club
houses, pools, courts, parks, tot lots, ramadas and other similar items.
      (7)   Passive open space shall be all other areas that have native or
landscape material that are part of the total required open space.
   (B)   Yard requirements. Yard requirements shall be determined and governed
by the applicable project development standards established pursuant to the
requirements of this chapter. The following minimum requirements shall apply in
the P-C zone overlay.
      (1)   Minimum yard areas shall be measured from the front, side and rear
lines of lots, condominium private ownership yard areas (where building
footprint is not recorded) or from accesses, driveways, or streets (where no
property lines or private ownership yard areas exist).
      (2)   Buildings may not be located within a public right-of-way or
utility easement.
      (3)   The minimum area, yard, width, frontage and other dimensional
requirements of the P-C zone overlay shall be governed by the project
development standards established pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Fencing, screening, clear vision. Fencing, screening and clear vision
requirements shall be determined and governed by the applicable project
development standards established pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
The following requirements shall apply in the P-C zone overlay.
      (1)   All mechanical equipment, antennas, loading and utility areas, and
trash receptacles shall be screened from view with architectural features or
walls consistent with materials used in the associated buildings as more
specifically set forth in the applicable project development standards.
      (2)   Fences and landscape materials, except for mature trees which are
pruned at least eight feet above the ground, shall not exceed three feet in
height within a ten-foot triangular area formed by the edge of a driveway and
the street right-of-way line or within a 30-foot triangular area formed by the
right-of-way lines of intersecting streets.
   (D)   Architectural standards. Architectural requirements shall be
determined and governed by the project development standards established
pursuant to the requirements of this chapter. The following architectural
standards and requirements shall apply in the P-C zone overlay.
      (1)   Architectural design of buildings and building materials shall be
established in the project development standards.
      (2)   All building materials shall be high quality, durable, and low
maintenance.
      (3)   The applicable project development standards shall address exterior
relief of buildings, design of all sides of buildings, and architectural
compatibility of buildings.
      (4)   All non-residential development shall incorporate four-sided
architectural design along with building facade undulation and features to
create visual interest.
      (5)   Colors and materials shall be presented in the conceptual
development plan.
   (E)   Landscaping requirements. Landscaping requirements shall be determined
and governed by the applicable project development standards established
pursuant to the requirements of this chapter. The following landscaping
requirements shall apply in the P-C zone overlay.
      (1)   The applicable project development standards shall address the
landscaping and proper maintenance by the Home Owners Association of required
front, side, and rear yards of lots (non- residential and residential) and
private ownership areas in the P-C zone overlay.
      (2)   All areas of lots and parcels in the P-C zone overlay not
designated for open space, parking, buildings, or other hard surfacing shall be
landscaped and properly maintained, or in the case of large areas of preserved
open space may be maintained in its natural area-scape. As such, designated
open space shall remain in a natural condition, cultivated or landscaped, and
properly maintained in accordance with the project development standards. If
this area is disturbed during construction, then reseeding and revegetation
shall occur to return it to its natural condition.
      (3)   All park strips and public right-of-way areas in the P-C zone
overlay shall be landscaped and properly irrigated and maintained by the
applicable property owners in the P-C zone overlay unless otherwise approved by
the County Commission.
      (4)   A plan for the funding of on-going maintenance of all landscape and
amenity areas by the HOA shall be presented for approval by staff at the time
of site plan approval.
      (5)   Tree materials, percentages and sizes, shall be addressed in the
conceptual development plan.
      (6)   Groundcover shall be addressed in the conceptual development plan,
and may include alternatives other than grass, including xeriscape options.
      (7)   Rural area development may benefit from reduced infrastructure
requirements such as removing curb, gutter, and sidewalks from the street
design.
   (F)   Lighting. Lighting requirements shall be determined and governed by
the project development standards established pursuant to the requirements of
this chapter.
   (G)   Height. Building height within the county zoning ordinance is
restricted to 35 feet in all zones. However, some negotiation to allow for
additional height may be allowed dependent on the proposed amenities provided
to the county. In all cases, the following restrictions shall apply:
      (1)   Height in large lot or rural single-family residential zones shall
not exceed 35 feet. Negotiated height shall not be permitted in these zones.
      (2)   Height increases within small lot, multi-family, or commercial
developments may be considered. Final approvals shall not exceed 50 feet in
height. View corridor plans shall be reviewed as part of the submittal and may
affect the maximum height approved by the County Commission.
      (3)   Height increases for industrial developments may be considered as
part of the approval process. View corridor plans shall be reviewed as part of
the submittal and may affect the maximum height approved by the County
Commission.
   (H)   Other requirements. The following requirements shall apply in the P-
C zone overlay.
   (I)   All developments shall be graded according to the county's engineering
and building requirements to provide adequate drainage. Buildings shall be
equipped with facilities for the discharge of all roof drainage onto the
subject lot or parcel.
   (J)   The applicable owners shall properly maintain all private areas of
individual lots or parcels.
   (K)   All common area improvements including buildings, open space,
recreational facilities, roads, fences, utilities, landscaping, walkways,
street lights and signs not specifically dedicated to the county or accepted
for ownership or maintenance by the county shall be perpetually maintained by
the applicable owners or their agents through a special taxing district,
owners' association with power to assess and collect fees for maintenance or
other assessment and maintenance mechanisms acceptable to the County
Commission. Improvements for which the county agrees to accept maintenance
responsibility shall be reviewed by the applicable county agency for compliance
with adopted standards prior to approval.
   (L)   A comprehensive sign package shall be included as part of the
conceptual development plan. The sign package shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Descriptions of each type of proposed sign;
      (2)   Proposed sizes of each type of sign;
      (3)   Colors proposed for the development;
      (4)   Materials to be used for the signs and related structures; and
      (5)   Elevation drawings showing estimated location of each type of sign.
(Ord. 23-19, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.463 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   In conjunction with the approval of a P-C zone overlay, conceptual site
plan, and the project's conceptual development plan, the applicant and the
county may need to enter into development agreements for utility and
infrastructure improvements that may result from a proposed Public Improvement
District (PID). This process shall be deemed to be an administrative item not
requiring a public hearing.
(Ord. 23-19, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.464 AMENDING THE CONCEPTUAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Except as provided below in division (B) amendments to the P-C zone
overlay, all associated development agreements, and existing PRUD subdivisions
shall be treated as a rezone and shall require submittal of a new application
including forms, fees, public notice requirements, public hearings,
recommendation by the Planning Commission, and final decision by the County
Commission.
   (B)   Minor amendments shall be allowed administratively according to the
determination of the Zoning Administrator as long as the amendments or changes
do not exceed the following restrictions (no more than two minor amendments may
be approved):
      (1)   Less than 5% change in the total square feet of the proposed
buildings, or total number of units (plus or minus);
      (2)   Less than ten% change in the building height or permitted number of
stories;
      (3)   Rearrangement of the proposed lot and street layouts, structures or
development elements as long as there is no change in height, square feet, or
total number of units to be development that exceeds divisions (1) and (2)
above; or
      (4)   Less than a 10% increase or decrease in setback requirements within
the original conceptual development plan.
      (5)   No open space requirements shall be reduced.
      (6)   That no other minor amendments in excess of that allowed in
division (B) above have been granted for the development. Additional minor
amendment requests shall result in being treated as a major amendment requiring
new submittal as detailed in division (A) above.
(Ord. 23-19, passed 12-19-2023)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 155.465 COTTONWOODS PUD OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the Cottonwoods PUD Overlay
District.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-1)
   (B)   Purpose. The Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District is an area approximately
1,036 acres in size (exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein and on
file in the county office), located on the eastern edge of the Mountain Green
master plan townsite. With its high level of visibility to residents and
visitors alike, architectural integrity and quality design controls are crucial
to implementing the county goals and objectives. The Cottonwoods is a master-
planned mixed-use project with multiple architecturally compatible buildings.
The purpose of the Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District is to allow substantial
flexibility in planning and designing a proposal for land use development. This
flexibility often occurs in the form of relief from compliance with
conventional zoning ordinance site and design requirements. Ideally, this
flexibility results in a development that is better planned, contains more
amenities and ultimately a development that is more desirable to live in than
one produced in accordance with typical zoning and subdivision controls. These
provisions are intended to create more attractive and more desirable
environments within the county and to encourage the following:
      (1)   Allow creative use of the land and encourage the preservation of
permanent open space and sensitive areas;
      (2)   Permit and support higher development densities to encourage
utilization of clustered neighborhoods;
      (3)   Allow for the design of developments that are architecturally and
environmentally innovative, and that achieve better utilization of the land
than is possible through strict application of standard zoning and subdivision
controls;
      (4)   Permit developers to vary architectural styles and land use on a
project-by-project basis, rather than on the basis of tunnel zoning and sprawl
zoning concepts, in a manner that may provide for a limited additional
development right in density or land use;
      (5)   Permit developers to locate the various features of their
developments in harmony with the natural features of the land;
      (6)   To provide for accessible public open space and recreation space,
schools, churches and private facilities; and
      (7)   To encourage preservation and protection of agricultural usage
through the emphasis of the right to farm and by providing buffering between
existing agricultural uses and higher density uses.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-2)
   (C)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in accordance with
the approved concept plan (attached to the ordinance codified herein and on
file in the county office) and approved development agreement:
      (1)   Attached and detached single-family residential buildings and
accessory structures;
      (2)   Recreational uses and accessory buildings, such as trails, parks,
tennis courts, community clubhouse and swimming and other uses permitted as
conditional uses. A community clubhouse may include a small restaurant, which
shall include a seating capacity for not more than 52 patrons; and
      (3)   Quasi-public buildings, public schools and churches.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-3)
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Golf course and associated accessory uses, such as a driving range,
clubhouse/restaurant upon satisfaction of the following conditions:
         (a)   The developer has demonstrated that the golf course shall have
sufficient water rights to maintain the golf course as a public golf course;
and
         (b)   The approval of the golf course shall not reduce the required
40% native and/or agricultural open space below the requirements set forth in
this section; provided, however, that if required, the developer may convey to
the master homeowners’ association open space not currently included within the
boundaries of the Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District, but is adjacent to the
Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District in order to meet such open space requirements.
If necessary, the county may amend this section and the approved development
agreement to reflect such additional land as part of the Cottonwoods PUD
Overlay District. The addition of such adjacent open space shall be subject to
the platting requirements set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Cabins consisting of 12 or less cabins and one main lodge, which
may be rented or leased as lodging, upon satisfaction of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Each cabin shall be a single-story structure containing less
than 1,600 usable square feet and shall contain parking for at least two
vehicles;
         (b)   The location for each such cabin shall be shown on a site plan
approved by the County Commission pursuant to the process set forth above;
         (c)   The main lodge may include such amenities as is customarily
included in cottage type lodging, including a dining facility with a seating
capacity for not more than 45 patrons, rental of outdoor recreation equipment
and providing for guided tours;
         (d)   Any limitations on operations and use provided by this chapter,
as recommended by the Planning Commission and approved by the County
Commission; and
         (e)   The main lodge shall contain a footprint of not more than 5,000
square feet.
      (3)   Equestrian facility, upon satisfaction of the following conditions:
         (a)   The developer has submitted a site plan to the County Commission
as required by the procedures set forth above, which site plan shall depict the
equestrian center and trails;
         (b)   The equestrian center and related trails shall be available for
the use and enjoyment of the general public upon payment of customary fees and
charges; and
         (c)   The equestrian center may include a barn, stables, workout areas
and pasture and grazing areas and such other amenities approved by the county.
The equestrian center shall be developed at the time of the development of the
phase in which the equestrian center is located.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-4)
   (E)   Density. In accordance with the approved concept plan and approved
development agreement, 760 dwelling units (1.363 du/acre) can be developed
within the Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District. Additionally, in the event an 18-
hole golf course is developed within the Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District, an
additional 38 dwelling units may be developed within the Cottonwoods PUD
Overlay District for a total of 798 dwelling units (1.298 du/acre). Except as
set forth below, no single lot for a residential unit shall be less than 10,000
square feet. The developer may develop mansion homes containing three to six
units per parcel in the Meadow Village neighborhood, which homes may be built
on lots smaller than 10,000 square feet. Base density and bonus densities
established within the development agreement and concept approval may be used
on any portion of the property, regardless of base zoning, provided such use is
in accordance with the development agreement and concept plan.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-5)
   (F)   Development standards. The Cottonwoods PUD District will provide
design guidelines for the buildings, landscaping, parking, housing and signage
located within the district boundaries. The Cottonwoods project is a master-
planned, mixed-use development containing approximately 1,036 acres of
undeveloped land along the east bench of Mountain Green. The master plan
provides for commercial and residential development in designated areas of the
district in accordance with the development standards set forth herein.
      (1)   Commercial buildings. All commercial buildings within the district
will be required to obtain a conditional use permit.
      (2)   Residential development. A detailed site plan will be required for
staff review and approval. Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District will be separated
into phases and neighborhoods shown approximately on exhibits C and D attached
to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the county office. Development
of the residential component within the district shall comply with the
following development standards:
Cottonwoods PUD                                   Phase 2, 3, 5
District        Phase 2 Silver   Phase 2, 3, 4    Cottonwood    Phase 5 Meadow
Building        Mountain Estates Cottonwood Hills Meadows       Village
Requirements
Cottonwoods PUD      Phase 2  Phase 2,                                                    Phase 5
District Building    Silver   3, 4       Phase 2, 3, 5 Cottonwood Meadows                 Meadow
Requirements         Mountain Cottonwood                                                  Village
                     Estates  Hills
Garage size          3 car    2 car      2 car minimum                                    2 car
                     minimum  minimum                                                     minimum
Height restrictions:
                     35 feet  35 feet                                                     35 feet
                     from     from                                                        from
   Nonsensitive   lowest   lowest     35 feet from lowest finished grade               lowest
                     finished finished                                                    finished
                     grade    grade                                                       grade
   Sensitive      30 feet                                                              30 feet
downslope            and 2    n/a        n/a                                              and 2
                     stories                                                              stories
                     30 feet                                                              30 feet
   Sensitive upsloand 2    n/a        n/a                                              and 2
                     stories                                                              stories
Lot restrictions                         Lots 23–29 of phase II plat limited to single-
                                         story
Minimum house size:
                     2,300    1,800
   Single-story   square   square     1,500 square feet                                n/a
                     feet     feet
                     2,000    1,400
   2-story; main/ square   square
upstairs             feet/500 feet/600   1,200 square feet/500 square feet                n/a
                     square   square
                     feet     feet
Park strip width     None     8 feet     5 feet                                           5 feet
Setbacks:
   Back           20 feet  20 feet    20 feet                                          20 feet
   Corner         20 feet  20 feet    20 feet                                          25 feet
   Front          15 feet  20 feet    12 feet                                          15 feet
                     20 feet
                     or 5     25 feet or
                     feet     5 feet
                     from     from front 17 feet or 5 feet from front of house, unless    Motor
   Garage         front of of house,  side-loaded                                      court
                     house,   unless
                     unless   side-
                     side-    loaded
                     loaded
   Side           10 feet  10 feet    10 feet                                          20 feet
Sidewalk width       5 feet   4 feet     4 feet                                           4 feet
Cottonwoods PUD                                          Phase 6 Durst Mountain
District Building Phase 5 Meadow Park Phase 4 Stoneridge Ranch
Requirements
Cottonwoods PUD                                             Phase 6 Durst
District Building   Phase 5 Meadow Park Phase 4 Stoneridge  Mountain Ranch
Requirements
Garage size         2 car minimum                           3 car garage
Height restrictions:
   Nonsensitive  35 feet from lowest 35 feet from lowest 35 feet from lowest
                    finished grade      finished grade      finished grade
   Sensitive     n/a                 n/a                 n/a
downslope
   Sensitive     n/a                 n/a                 n/a
upslope
Lot restrictions
Minimum house size:
   Single-story  1,500 square feet   3,500 square feet   2,300 square feet
   2-story main/ 1,200 square feet/  2,500 square feet/  1,800 square feet/
upstairs            500 square feet     1,000 square feet   700 square feet
Park strip width    5 feet              None                None
Setbacks:
   Back          15                  20 feet             50 feet
   Corner        20                  20 feet             30 feet
   Front         10                  17 feet             30 feet
                                        17 feet or 5 feet   35 feet or 5 feet
   Garage        9 feet rear alley   from the front of   from front of house
                                        house unless side-  unless side-loaded
                                        loaded
   Side          10                  10 feet             20 feet
Sidewalk width      4 feet              5 feet              None
Cottonwoods PUD   Phase 7 Cottonwood Phase 5, 8 Cottonwood Phase 9 Silverlake
District Building Spring View        Heights               Estates
Requirements
Cottonwoods PUD     Phase 7 Cottonwood  Phase 5, 8          Phase 9 Silverlake
District Building   Spring View         Cottonwood Heights  Estates
Requirements
Garage size         2 car minimum       3 car minimum
Height restrictions:
   Nonsensitive  35 feet from lowest 35 feet from lowest 35 feet from lowest
                    finished grade      finished grade      finished grade
   Sensitive     n/a                 n/a                 n/a
downslope
   Sensitive     n/a                 n/a                 n/a
upslope
Lot restrictions
Minimum house size:
   Single-story  1,800 square feet   2,300 square feet   2,300 square feet
   2-story main/ 1,500 square feet/  2,000 square feet/  2,300 square feet/
upstairs            600 square feet     500 square feet     1,000 square feet
Park strip width    8 feet              8 feet              5 feet
Setbacks:
   Front         20 feet             30 feet             30 feet
   Side          10 feet             20 feet             20 feet
   Corner        20 feet             30 feet             30 feet
   Back          20 feet             30 feet             30 feet
                    25 feet or 5 feet   35 feet or 5 feet   35 feet or 5 feet
   Garage        from front of house from front of house from front of house
                    unless side-loaded  unless side-loaded  unless side-loaded
Sidewalk width      4 feet              4 feet              4 feet
 
      (3)   Street right-of-way width. The right-of-way for public streets will
be 55 feet wide.
      (4)   Cul-de-sacs. Private cul-de-sacs may be longer than the public
street standard but shall not be longer than 1,500.
      (5)   Limitations. The development of the Cottonwoods PUD Overlay
District shall be limited by the requirements set forth in this chapter.
      (6)   Preserved open space. The Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District shall
maintain a minimum of 40% preserved open space. Preserved open space is the sum
of all land that is perpetually left naturally undeveloped or in agriculture.
      (7)   Usable open space. The Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District shall
maintain a minimum of 10% usable open space. Usable open space is the portion
of preserved open space that can be landscaped and is contained on slopes of
15% or less. It is capable of being landscaped with berms, shrubs and lawns for
use as park-like areas that complement the development. It must contain no less
than 10,000 square feet of contiguous area in each open space parcel, unless
10,000 square feet is more than the required 10%. It is not intended to be
remnant pieces of land too small to be used for anything that combined would
have met the required amount of land. Usable open space may include space on
residential lots which are subject to a public open space easement.
      (8)   Sensitive areas. The Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District is required
to preserve sensitive areas in open space. Sensitive areas include, but are not
limited to, ridgeline/viewshed areas, areas of special interest or beauty,
wetlands, fault zones, stream corridors, important wildlife areas, unstable
soils or any other environmental concern addressed in this section, as detailed
within the development agreement and PUD overlay report.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-6)
   (G)   Landscape standards. The Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District and all
phases will be landscaped with sensitivity to the natural environment. The
landscaping shall be installed in accordance with a landscape plan submitted
along with the residential site plan to be reviewed and approved by the staff
and in accordance with the development agreement and PUD overlay report.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-7)
   (H)   Parking design.
      (1)   Commercial development within the Cottonwoods PUD District will
require five parking stalls for every 1,000 square feet of retail or restaurant
space. Each stall must measure at least nine feet wide by 18 feet long, with
ADA accessible stalls provided in accordance with established standards.
      (2)   Parking lot lighting shall provide adequate illumination and shall
be no taller than 30 feet and shall conform to night sky regulations as
detailed in the development agreement. Pedestrian corridors shall be identified
by a change in color and/or texture of pavement material. Tree diamonds
measuring five feet by five feet shall be installed throughout the parking
areas.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-8)
   (I)   Signage. The signage is an important component of the Cottonwoods PUD
project. Exhibit E attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the
county office sets forth the sign criteria for the Cottonwoods PUD Overlay
District.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-9)
   (J)   Procedures. Approval of the PUD Overlay District text shall constitute
conceptual site plan approval for the Cottonwoods PUD District. Subsequent
phases shall be approved as applications for subdivision approval, conditional
use approvals and any other permits shall be processed in accordance with the
county requirements, ordinances and procedures.
      (1)   Planning Commission preliminary plat approval.
         (a)   Prior to commencing construction on any phase, the developer
shall submit a preliminary plat, the applicable neighborhood declaration,
construction drawings and specifications and all required submittals under this
chapter and the approved development agreement applicable to such phase to the
Planning Commission. Each plat submitted to the Planning Commission shall
comply with all technical platting requirements of this chapter and the
subdivision ordinances. The developer shall pay fees for each plat as are
generally required by the county at the time of the submission of the plat to
the Planning Commission. Timing of said submission and review by county staff
prior to the Planning Commission shall be in accordance with the adopted
Planning Department submittal deadline policy.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall review the plat and all required
submittals associated with the applicable phase for completeness and conformity
with the approved development agreement and this section. To the extent that
such plat is complete and consistent with the approved development agreement,
this section and all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules,
regulations and ordinances, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation
to the County Commission for the approval of such plat. To the extent of a
conflict between the provisions of this section and another ordinance, this
section shall control. The Planning Commission shall hold all duly noticed
public hearings required for the approval of such plat under state code, this
chapter and other county ordinances, as applicable. In the event the Planning
Commission determines that such plat is incomplete or is inconsistent with this
section, the approved development agreement or all applicable federal, state
and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances, the Planning Commission will
provide developer with a reasonably detailed description of any such
inconsistencies, in which case developer shall revise such plat to remediate
any such inconsistencies and resubmit such plat to the Planning Commission for
approval pursuant to the process set forth above.
      (2)   County Commission preliminary approval of plat. Following the
recommendation from the Planning Commission that a plat be approved by the
County Commission pursuant to the procedures set forth in division (J)(1)
above, such plat shall be submitted to the County Commission for approval. The
plat shall be approved; provided, that such plat is complete and complies with
this section, the approved development agreement and all applicable federal,
state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances. The County Commission
shall review the plat for completeness and conformity with this section, the
approved development agreement, all applicable federal, state and local laws,
rules, regulations and ordinances. To the extent that such plat is complete and
consistent with this section, the approved development agreement, this chapter
and all applicable federal, state and local laws and ordinances, the County
Commission shall approve the plat. The County Commission shall hold all duly
noticed public hearings required for the approval of such plat under the state
code, this section, this chapter and other applicable county ordinances. In the
event the County Commission determines that such plat is not consistent with
this section or the approved development agreement, the County Commission will
provide the developer with a reasonably detailed description of any such
inconsistencies, in which case the developer shall revise such plat to
remediate any such inconsistencies and resubmit such plat to the County
Commission for approval pursuant to the process set forth in this division (J)
(2).
      (3)   Final plat approval. Following the preliminary approval of the plat
by the County Commission pursuant to the procedures set forth in division (J)
(2) above, the County Commission shall authorize the developer to submit a
final plat to the county staff for review. The county staff shall review a
paper plat for completeness and conformance to the preliminary approval of the
plat (including any conditions for approval). If such plat is complete and
conforms to the preliminary approval, the county staff shall authorize the
developer to submit a Mylar copy of the final plat for approval. The developer
shall be responsible for obtaining all required signatures on the Mylar with
the exception of the Planning Commission and County Commission. The signed
Mylar shall be placed on the agenda of the Planning Commission for review,
approval and signatures. Following receipt of the final plat signatures from
the Planning Commission, the county staff shall place the Mylar on the agenda
of the County Commission for signature and adoption. The final plat will then
be released to the developer for recordation.
      (4)   Building permits. Following the recordation of the final plat, the
developer is authorized to sell lots in accordance with state and local law.
The county staff will issue building permits in accordance with this section,
the approved development agreement, this chapter and applicable federal, state
and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances. Upon receipt of preliminary
approval for a plat, the county staff is authorized to issue building permits
to enable the developer to commence construction on the infrastructure in
accordance with the preliminary plat, this section, the approved development
agreement and all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations
and ordinances. Additionally, in the event that the infrastructure for a
particular phase is: Dependent upon the construction of infrastructure
improvements on future phases (e.g., retention ponds on future phases or
utility lines through future phases); or the infrastructure would necessarily
continue onto the real property included in future phases (e.g., a road
crossing all phases) and the completion of such infrastructure as a whole
rather than in phases is justified by financial constraints and sound
engineering principals, the county staff is authorized to issue building
permits for the construction of such improvements on such future phases.
Building permits for dwelling units shall only be issued when required
infrastructure for the applicable plat has been installed and inspected and
approved by the County Engineer, which approval shall be limited to confirming
that such infrastructure is completed in accordance with this section, the
approved development agreement and all applicable federal, state and local
laws, rules, regulations and ordinances. Notwithstanding the foregoing to the
contrary, in the event that prevailing weather conditions would require a
developer to waive its warranty with respect to installing asphalt on roads in
a phase, building permits for dwelling units may be issued without the
completion of such roads, subject to the county’s receipt of reasonable
assurances that such roads shall be completed during the period that such
warranty will not be waived. No permit shall be issued unless proof of approval
from the architectural committee has been submitted to the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-10)
   (K)   Effect of provisions. Approval of this amendment constitutes a zoning
change for the Cottonwoods PUD Overlay District.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-11)
   (L)   Statement of intent. The Cottonwoods Overlay District is intended to
provide specific regulations or standards pertaining to specific geographic
features or land uses, wherever these are located. Whenever there is a conflict
between the regulations of a base zoning district and those of an overlay
district, the overlay district regulations shall control.
(Prior Code, § 8-13B-12)
§ 155.466 COVENTRY COVE PUD OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Coventry Cove PUD Overlay District is an area
approximately 9.84 acres in size (exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified
herein and on file in the county office), located on the eastern edge of the
Mountain Green master plan townsite. With its high level of visibility to
residents and visitors alike, architectural integrity and quality design
controls are crucial to implementing the county goals and objectives. Coventry
Cove is a master-planned, mixed-use project with multiple architecturally
compatible buildings. The purpose of the Coventry Cove PUD Overlay District is
to allow substantial flexibility in planning and designing a proposal for land
use development. This flexibility often occurs in the form of relief from
compliance with conventional zoning ordinance site and design requirements.
Ideally, this flexibility results in a development that is better planned,
contains more amenities and ultimately a development that is more desirable to
live in than one produced in accordance with typical zoning and subdivision
controls. These provisions are intended to create more attractive and more
desirable environments within the county and to encourage the following:
      (1)   Allow creative use of the land and encourage the preservation of
permanent open space and sensitive areas;
      (2)   Permit and support higher development densities to encourage
utilization of clustered neighborhoods;
      (3)   Allow for the design of developments that are architecturally and
environmentally innovative, and that achieve better utilization of the land
than is possible through strict application of standard zoning and subdivision
controls;
      (4)   Permit developers to vary architectural styles and land use on a
project-by-project basis, rather than on the basis of tunnel zoning and sprawl
zoning concepts, in a manner that may provide for a limited additional
development right in density or land use; and
      (5)   Permit developers to locate the various features of their
developments in harmony with the natural features of the land.
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-1)
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in accordance with
the approved concept plan (attached to the ordinance codified herein and on
file in the county office) and approved development agreement:
      (1)   Single-family residential buildings and incidental accessory uses;
      (2)   Agricultural storage, outdoor storage incidental to the operation
of the adjacent Wilkinson family farm and only for as long as the farm is owned
by the Wilkinson family (commercial lot B only);
      (3)   Household pets;
      (4)   Fences within the backyard areas, maximum height of six feet, no
closer to the front property line than the front setback of the dwelling unit,
materials to be approved by the CC&Rs;
      (5)   Tilling of soil, raising of crops, horticulture and gardening; and
      (6)   Recreational uses (open space parcels).
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-2)
   (C)   Conditional uses. Home occupations.
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-3)
   (D)   Commercial lots A–D conditional uses. Uses not expressly permitted are
deemed prohibited. Those uses identified as permitted and conditionally
permitted in the Neighborhood Commercial District (C-N) shall be allowed as a
conditional use, with the exception of grocery stores, restaurants, cafes or
other establishments that serve alcohol, and pet boarding.
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-4)
   (E)   Density and sensitive lands.
      (1)   Density. In accordance with the approved concept plan and approved
development agreement, 11 dwelling unit lots and four commercial lots can be
developed within the Coventry Cove PUD Overlay District. Base density
established within the development agreement and final approval may be used on
any portion of the property, regardless of base zoning, provided such use is in
accordance with the development agreement and final plan.
      (2)   Sensitive areas removed. In calculation of the density, the
following areas have been declared sensitive and have been removed from the
calculation of said base density: The stream channel and areas of slope greater
than 25% as defined on the final plat. As well, commercial lots have been
excluded from calculation of base residential density.
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-5)
   (F)   Development standards. The Coventry Cove PUD Overlay District will
provide design guidelines for the buildings, landscaping, parking, housing and
signage located within the district boundaries. The master plan provides for
commercial and residential development in designated areas of the district in
accordance with the development standards set forth herein.
      (1)   Commercial buildings. All commercial buildings within the district
will be required to obtain a conditional use permit.
      (2)   Residential development. A detailed site plan will be required for
staff review and approval. The following standards shall be adhered to:
 
Lots 1-11
Front setback 15 feet
Side setback  5 feet
Rear setback  15 feet
 
      (3)   Maximum height. Maximum height of 35 feet from the lowest final
elevation to the highest roofline.
      (4)   Streets. Streets within the Coventry Cove PUD Overlay Zone shall be
designated private streets, owned and maintained by the homeowners’
association.
      (5)   Limitations. The development of the Coventry Cove PUD Overlay
District shall be limited by the requirements set forth in this chapter.
      (6)   Preserved open space. The Coventry Cove PUD Overlay District shall
maintain a minimum of 40% preserved open space. Preserved open space is the sum
of all land that is perpetually left naturally undeveloped or in agriculture.
      (7)   Usable open space. The Coventry Cove PUD Overlay District shall
maintain a minimum of 10% usable open space. Usable open space is the portion
of preserved open space that can be landscaped and is contained on slopes of
15% or less. It is capable of being landscaped with berms, shrubs and lawns for
use as parklike areas that complement the development. Usable open space may
include space on residential lots which are subject to a public open space
easement.
      (8)   Sensitive areas. The Coventry Cove PUD Overlay District is required
to preserve sensitive areas in open space. Sensitive areas include, but are not
limited to, ridgeline/viewshed areas, areas of special interest or beauty,
wetlands, fault zones, stream corridors, important wildlife areas, unstable
soils or any other environmental concern addressed in this section, as detailed
within the development agreement.
      (9)   Frontage. Frontage requirements for each lot shall be as detailed
on the final plat.
      (10)   Lot coverage. The maximum building coverage for any lot shall be
50%.
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-6)
   (G)   Landscape standards. The Coventry Cove PUD Overlay District and all
phases will be landscaped with sensitivity to the natural environment. The
landscaping shall be installed in accordance with a landscape plan submitted
along with the residential site plan to be reviewed and approved by the staff
and in accordance with the development agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-7)
   (H)   Parking design. Commercial development within the Coventry Cove PUD
District shall be provided in accordance with the approved final plan. Each
stall must measure at least nine feet wide by 18 feet long, with ADA accessible
stalls provided in accordance with established standards.
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-8)
   (I)   Signage. The signage is an important component of the Coventry Cove
PUD project. Exhibit C attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file in
the county office sets forth the sign criteria for the Coventry Cove PUD
Overlay District.
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-9)
   (J)   Procedures. Approval of the PUD Overlay District text shall constitute
preliminary site plan approval for the Coventry Cove PUD District. Conditional
uses shall be processed in accordance with the county requirements, ordinances
and procedures.
      (1)   Final plat approval. Following the Coventry Cove PUD overlay zone
approval, the County Commission shall authorize the developer to submit a final
plat to the county staff for review. The county staff shall review a paper plat
for completeness and conformance to the preliminary approval of the plat
(including any conditions for approval). If such plat is complete and conforms
to the preliminary approval, the county staff shall authorize the developer to
submit a Mylar copy of the final plat for approval. The developer shall be
responsible for obtaining all required signatures on the Mylar, with the
exception of the Planning Commission and County Commission. The signed Mylar
shall be placed on the agenda of the Planning Commission for review, approval
and signature. Following receipt of the final plat signatures from the Planning
Commission, the county staff shall place the Mylar on the agenda for the County
Commission for signature and adoption. The final plat will then be released to
the developer for recordation.
      (2)   Building permits.
         (a)   Following the recordation of the final plat, the developer is
authorized to sell lots in accordance with state and local law. The county
staff will issue building permits in accordance with this section, the approved
development agreement, this chapter and applicable federal, state and local
laws, rules, regulations and ordinances.
         (b)   Building permits for dwelling units shall only be issued when
required infrastructure for the applicable plat has been installed and
inspected and approved by the County Engineer, which approval shall be limited
to confirming that such infrastructure is completed in accordance with this
section, the approved development agreement and all applicable federal, state
and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-10)
   (K)   Effect of provisions. Approval of this amendment constitutes a zoning
change for the Coventry Cove PUD Overlay District.
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-11)
   (L)   Statement of intent. The Coventry Cove Overlay District is intended to
provide specific regulations or standards pertaining to specific geographic
features or land uses, wherever these are located. Whenever there is a conflict
between the regulations of a base zoning district and those of an Overlay
District, the Overlay District regulations shall control.
(Prior Code, § 8-13C-12)
(Ord. 11-18, passed 12-6-2011)
SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 155.480 PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION.
   This subchapter shall be adopted to provide for the regulation and licensing
of sexually-oriented businesses within the county in a manner which will
protect the property values, neighborhoods and residents from the potential
adverse secondary effects of sexually-oriented businesses, while providing to
those who desire to patronize sexually-oriented businesses the opportunity to
do so. It is not the intent of this subchapter to suppress any speech
activities protected by the first and fourteenth amendments of the United
States Constitution or the Constitution of the state, but to impose content-
neutral regulations which address the adverse secondary effects of sexually-
oriented businesses. The concern over sexually transmitted diseases is a
legitimate health concern of the county which demands reasonable regulation of
sexually-oriented businesses to protect the health and well-being of the
citizens, including the patrons of sexually-oriented businesses. The purpose of
this subchapter is to control adverse effects from sexually-oriented businesses
and thereby protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens, protect the
citizens from increased crime, preserve the quality of life, preserve the
property values and character of the surrounding neighborhoods and deter the
spread of urban blight.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-1)
§ 155.481 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated, or electrically- or mechanically-controlled
still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image producing devices
are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one
time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by
the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Holds itself out to be such a business;
      (2)   Excludes minors from more than 10% of the retail floor or shelf
space of the premises; or
      (3)   Which, as one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rental,
for any form of consideration, any one or more of the following: Books;
magazines; periodicals or other printed matter or photographs; films; motion
pictures; video cassettes or video reproductions; slides or other visual
representations, the central theme of which depicts or describes specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or instruments, devices or
paraphernalia which are designed for use in connection with specified sexual
activities, except for legitimate medically recognized contraceptives.
   ADULT BUSINESS. An adult theater, adult motion picture theater, adult
bookstore or adult video store.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar business which
regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT HOTEL. A hotel or similar business which offers private rooms to the
public and provides patrons live performances or closed circuit television
transmissions, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Holds itself out as such business;
      (2)   Excludes minors from the showing of two consecutive exhibitions
(repeated showings of any single presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
      (3)   As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions which are primarily characterized by the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which:
      (1)   Holds itself out as such a business;
      (2)   Excludes minors from the showing of two consecutive exhibitions
(repeated performances of the same presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
      (3)   As its principal business, features persons who appear in live
performance in a state of seminudity or which are characterized by the exposure
of specified anatomical areas, or by specified sexual activities.
   DISTANCE. All DISTANCES discussed herein as they pertain to buffers from
other sexually-oriented facilities or businesses, churches, schools, parks and
Residential Zone Districts are measured as follows: In a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures, from the nearest property line of the school,
park, church, Residential Zone District or other sexually-oriented facility or
business to the nearest property line of the sexually-oriented facility or
business.
   EMPLOYEE. Includes any person who is paid directly or indirectly by the
licensee for services performed on the premises, whether such person would
otherwise as a matter of law be classified as an EMPLOYEE, agent, manager,
entertainer or independent contractor.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. A state of dress in which the areola of the
female breast, or male or female genitals, pubic region or anus are covered by
less than the covering required in the definition of “seminude,” as defined in
this section.
   OPERATOR. The manager or other natural person principally in charge of a
sexually-oriented business.
   PEEP BOOTH. A viewing room, other than a private room, or less than 150
square feet of floor space upon the premises of a sexually-oriented business
where there is exhibited photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes
or other video reproductions, slides or other visual representations, which
depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEMINUDE. A state of dress in which a person wears opaque clothing covering:
      (1)   Only the male or female genitals, pubic region, anus; or
      (2)   The nipple and areola of the female breast, by an opaque cover that
is four inches wide in the front and five inches wide in the back, tapering to
one inch at the narrowest point.
   SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY. Any person, agency, firm, corporation, partnership
or any other entity or individual, which furnishes, books or otherwise engages
or offers to furnish, book or otherwise engage the service of a professional
dancer for performance or appearance at a business licensed pursuant to this
subchapter.
   SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.
      (1)   A business, including an adult theater, where employees perform or
appear in the presence of patrons of the business in a state of seminudity.
      (2)   A business shall also be presumed to be a SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT
BUSINESS if the business holds itself out as such a business.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial establishment
which, as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of
consideration, a place where two or more persons may congregate, associate or
consort for the purpose of specified sexual activities or the exposure of
specified anatomical areas, when one or more of the persons exposes any
specified anatomical area.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Seminude entertainment business, adult business
and seminude dancing agencies, as defined in this section. An adult arcade,
adult bookstore, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, sexual encounter establishment or other similar
business and includes:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to a sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually-oriented business;
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually-oriented business; or
      (5)   The continuation of a sexually-oriented business in existence on
the effective date hereof.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The human male or female pubic areas or anus
with less than a full opaque covering, or the human female breast from the
beginning of the areola, papilla or nipple to the end thereof, with less than
full opaque covering.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. 
      (1)   Acts of:
         (a)   Masturbation;
         (b)   Human sexual intercourse; or
         (c)   Sodomy.
      (2)   Manipulating, caressing or fondling by any person of:
         (a)   The genitals of a human;
         (b)   The pubic area of a human; or
         (c)   The breast of a human female.
      (3)   Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in undergarments,
a mask or bizarre costume or the condition of being fettered, bound or
otherwise physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed;
      (4)   Intrusion, however slight, of any object, any part of an animal’s
body or any part of a person’s body into the genital or anal opening of any
person’s body or into the body of an animal; and/or
      (5)   Cunnilingus, fellatio, anilingus, masturbation, bestiality, lewd
exhibition of genitals or excretory function.
   STAGE. A raised floor or platform at least three feet above the surrounding
floor measured perpendicularly from the edge of the stage to the surrounding
floor and at least 36 square feet in area.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-2)
§ 155.482 OBSCENITY AND LEWDNESS; STATUTORY PROVISIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything contained in this subchapter, nothing in this
subchapter shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or display of any
matter which is contrary to applicable federal or state statutes prohibiting
obscenity.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-3) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.483 LOCATION AND ZONING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Zoning required. It shall be unlawful for any sexually-oriented
facility or business to do business at any location within the county not zoned
for such business under this chapter and where the necessary conditional use
permit has not been approved.
   (B)   Criteria. Sexually-oriented facilities and businesses shall conform to
the following criteria:
      (1)   Sexually-oriented facilities and businesses may be constructed or
operated as conditional uses within any Industrial (I) Zone District;
      (2)   Sexually-oriented facilities and businesses shall not be located
within 1,000 feet from the lot line of any other sexually-oriented facility and
business; and
      (3)   Sexually-oriented facilities and businesses shall not be located
within 1,000 feet of a church, public park or public or private recreation
facilities and daycare center, or within 1,000 feet from lot line to lot line
of any Residential Zone District.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-4) (Ord. 18-09, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.484 BUSINESS LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a sexually-oriented business,
as specified herein, without first obtaining a sexually-oriented business
license from the County Commission, with approval of the County Sheriff. The
business license shall specify the type of sexually-oriented business for which
it is obtained.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-5) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.485 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Each license shall expire on December 31 of each year and may be renewed
only by making application with the County Recorder by February 15 of the
following year.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-6)
§ 155.486 BUSINESS CATEGORIES; SINGLE LICENSE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any business to operate or be licensed for more
than one category of sexually-oriented business.
   (B)   The categories of sexually-oriented businesses are:
      (1)   Adult business;
      (2)   Seminude entertainment business; and
      (3)   Seminude dancing agency.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-7) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.487 CONDUCT FOR SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Unlawful exposure. No licensee or employee mingling with the patrons,
or serving food or drinks, shall be unclothed or in such attire, costume or
clothing, so as to expose to view any specified anatomical area.
   (B)   Unlawful touching. No licensee or employee shall encourage or
knowingly permit any person upon the premises to touch, caress or fondle the
breasts, anus or specified anatomical areas of any person.
   (C)   Violation prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any licensee or
employee to knowingly permit a patron to violate any of the requirements of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-8) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.488 EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any sex therapist or
similar individual licensed by the state to provide bona fide sexual therapy or
counseling, licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse, psychiatrist or
psychologist, nor shall it apply to any educator licensed by the state for
activities in the classroom.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-9)
§ 155.489 LICENSE APPLICATION, DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Information required. Before any applicant may be licensed to operate
a sexually-oriented business pursuant to this subchapter, the applicant shall
submit, on a form to be supplied by the business license officer, the
following:
      (1)   The correct legal name of each applicant, corporation, partnership,
limited partnership or entity doing business under an assumed name;
      (2)   (a)   If the applicant is a corporation, partnership or limited
partnership or individual or entity doing business under an assumed name, the
information required below for individual applicants shall be submitted for
each partner and each principal of an applicant and for each officer or
director.
         (b)   Any holding company, or any entity holding more than 10% of an
applicant, shall be considered an applicant for purposes of disclosure under
this subchapter;
      (3)   All corporations, partnerships or noncorporate entities included on
the application shall also identify each individual authorized by the
corporation, partnership or noncorporate entity to sign the checks for such
corporation, partnership or noncorporate entity;
      (4)   For all applicants, the application must also state:
         (a)   Any other names or aliases used by the individual;
         (b)   Present business address and telephone number;
         (c)   Present residence and telephone number;
         (d)   State driver’s license or identification number; and
         (e)   Social Security number.
      (5)   Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least 21 years
of age;
      (6)   The applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the County
Sheriff’s Department. For persons not residing in the county, the fingerprints
shall be on a form from the law enforcement jurisdiction where the person
resides. Fees for the fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant directly to
the issuing agency;
      (7)   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five-year period immediately preceding the date of the filing
of the application, including whether such applicant possesses or previously
possessed any liquor licenses. The statement shall list all other jurisdictions
in which the applicant owned or operated a sexually-oriented business. The
statement shall also state whether the applicant has ever had a license, permit
or authorization to do business denied, revoked or suspended in this or any
other county, city, state or territory. In the event of any such denial,
revocation or suspension, state the date, the name or issuing or denying
jurisdiction and state, in full, the reasons for denial, revocation or
suspension. A copy of any order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be
attached to the application;
      (8)   All criminal convictions or pleas of nolo contendere, except those
which have been expunged, and the disposition of all such arrests for the
applicant, individual or entity subject to disclosure under this subchapter for
five years prior to the date of the application. This disclosure shall include
identification of all ordinance violations, except minor traffic offenses (any
traffic offense designated as a felony shall not be construed as a minor
traffic offense); stating the date, place, nature of each conviction and plea
of nolo contendere and sentence of each conviction or other disposition;
identifying case numbers or docket numbers. Application for a sexually-oriented
business shall constitute a waiver of disclosure of any criminal conviction or
plea of nolo contendere for the purposes of any proceeding involving the
business or employee license;
      (9)   In the event the applicant is not the owner of record of the real
property upon which the business or proposed business is or to be located, the
application must be accompanied by possessory interest in the property
specifically acknowledging the type of business for which the applicant seeks a
license for the property. In addition to furnishing such notarized statement,
the applicant shall furnish name, address and phone number of the owner of
record of the property, as well as the copy of the lease or rental agreement
pertaining to the premises on which the service is or will be located; and
      (10)   A description of the services to be provided by the business, with
sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to determine what business
will be transacted on the premises, together with a schedule of usual fees for
services to be charged by the licensee and any rules, regulations or employment
guidelines under or by which the sexually-oriented business intends to operate.
This description shall also include:
         (a)   The hours that the business or service will be open to the
public and the methods of promoting the health and safety of employees and
patrons and preventing them from engaging in illegal activity;
         (b)   The methods of supervision preventing the employees from
engaging in acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities;
         (c)   The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this subchapter or other statutes or ordinances; and
         (d)   The methods of screening employees and customers in order to
promote the health and safety of employees and customers and prevent the
transmission of disease and prevent the commission of acts of prostitution or
other criminal activity.
   (B)   False or misleading information unlawful. It is unlawful to knowingly
submit false or materially misleading information on or with a sexually-
oriented business license application, or to fail to disclose or omit
information for the purpose of obtaining a sexually-oriented business license.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-10) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.490 LICENSE FEES.
   Each applicant for a sexually-oriented business license shall be required to
pay a license fee pursuant to the schedule established by resolution of the
County Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-11)
§ 155.491 SINGLE LOCATION AND NAME.
   (A)   It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued pursuant to
this subchapter at any location other than the licensed premises.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any sexually-oriented business to do business under
any name other than the business name specified in the application.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-12) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.492 LICENSE; ISSUANCE CONDITIONS; CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   Approval; denial conditions. The County Sheriff or his or her designee
shall approve the issuance of a license to the applicant within 30 days of
receipt of a completed application, unless the official finds one or more of
the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under 21 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant is overdue in payment to the county of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed upon the applicant
in relation to a sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The applicant has falsely answered a material question or request
for information as authorized by this subchapter;
      (4)   The applicant has violated a provision of this subchapter or
similar provisions found in statutes or ordinances from any jurisdiction within
two years immediately preceding the application. A criminal conviction for a
violation of a provision of this subchapter or similar provisions from any
jurisdiction, whether or not being appealed, is conclusive evidence of a
violation, but a conviction is not necessary to prove a violation;
      (5)   The premises to be used for the business has been disapproved by
the county Health Department, the Fire Department, the Sheriff’s Department,
the Building Official or the zoning officials as not being in compliance with
applicable laws and ordinances of the county. If any of the foregoing reviewing
agencies cannot complete their review within the 30-day approval or denial
period, the agency or department may obtain an extension of time of no more
than 15 days for review. The total time for the county to approve or deny a
license shall not exceed 45 days from the receipt of a completed application
and payment of all fees;
      (6)   The required license fees have not been paid;
      (7)   All applicable sales and use taxes have not been paid;
      (8)   An applicant for the proposed business is in violation of or not in
compliance with this subchapter or similar provisions found in state statutes
or ordinances from any jurisdiction;
      (9)   An applicant has been convicted or pled nolo contendere to a crime
involving prostitution; exploitation of prostitution; aggravated promotion of
prostitution; aggravated exploitation of prostitution; solicitation of sex
acts; sex acts for hire; compelling prostitution; aiding prostitution; sale,
distribution or display of material harmful to minors; sexual performance by
minors; possession of child pornography; lewdness; indecent exposure; any crime
involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child; sexual assault or aggravated
sexual assault; rape; forcible sodomy; forcible sexual abuse; incest; harboring
a runaway child; criminal attempt; conspiracy; or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses or offenses involving similar elements from any
jurisdiction, regardless of the exact title of the offense, for which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed from the date of conviction, if
the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense, or less than five years if the
convictions are of two or more misdemeanors within the five years; or
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed from the date of conviction if
the offense is a felony.
      (10)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Conditional use permit required. Sexually-oriented facilities and
businesses are conditional uses in existing Industrial (I) Zones and must be
approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. In all cases, a
design and site plan diagraming the premises shall be provided as part of the
application process. A public hearing shall be required in all cases prior to
the issuance of a conditional use permit. The procedures for issuance of
conditional use permits, as found in §
155.366 of this code, shall be followed in all cases. A final decision by the
County Commission as to the issuance of a conditional use permit for a
sexually-oriented facility or business shall be made within 90 days of receipt
of a completed application by the county department, unless a delay is
requested or agreed upon by the applicant or where the applicant is causing the
delay by not providing needed information.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-13) (Ord. 18-09, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 155.493 CHANGES IN INFORMATION.
   Any change in the information required to be submitted under this subchapter
for a sexually-oriented business license shall be given, in writing, to the
Sheriff’s Department within 14 days after such change.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-14)
§ 155.494 TRANSFER LIMITATIONS.
   Sexually-oriented business licenses granted under this subchapter are not
transferable. It is unlawful for an individual to transfer a sexually-oriented
business license. It shall be unlawful for a sexually-oriented business license
held by a corporation, partnership or other noncorporate entity to transfer any
part in excess of 10% thereof, without filing a new application and obtaining
prior county approval. If any transfer of the controlling interest in a
sexually-oriented business licensee occurs, the license is immediately null and
void and the sexually-oriented business shall not operate until a separate new
license has been properly issued by the county as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-15) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.495 PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES.
   It is unlawful for any sexually-oriented business to:
   (A)   Allow persons under the age of 18 years on the licensed premises,
except that an adult business which excludes minors from less than all of the
business premises, minors shall not be permitted in excluded areas;
   (B)   Allow, offer or agree to allow any alcohol being stored, used or
consumed on or in the licensed premises;
   (C)   Allow the outside door to premises to be locked while any customer is
in the premises;
   (D)   Allow, offer or agree to gambling on the licensed premises;
   (E)   Allow, offer or agree to any employee of a sexually-oriented business
touching any patron or customer;
   (F)   Allow, offer or agree to illegal possession, use, sale or distribution
of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
   (G)   Allow sexually-oriented business employees to possess, use, sell or
distribute controlled substances, while engaged in the activities of the
business;
   (H)   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises;
   (I)   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any specified sexual activity as
validly defined by county ordinances or state statute in the presence of any
customer or patron;
   (J)   Allow, offer or agree to allow a patron or customer to masturbate in
the presence of an employee or on the premises of a sexually-oriented business;
   (K)   Allow, offer or agree to commit an act of lewdness, as defined in §
155.482 of this code; or
   (L)   Not permit the Sheriff’s Department or other county official to have
access at all times to all premises licensed or applying for a license under
this subchapter, or to make periodic inspection of said premises whether the
officer or official is in uniform or plain clothes.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-16) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.496 ADULT BUSINESS, DESIGN OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Diagram of premises. In addition to the general requirements of
disclosure for a sexually-oriented business, any applicant for a license as an
adult business shall also submit a diagram, drawn to scale, of the premises of
the license. The design and construction, prior to granting a license or
opening for business, shall conform to the following:
      (1)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms;
      (2)   Restrooms may not contain any video reproduction equipment or any
of the business merchandise. Signs shall be posted requiring only one person be
allowed in the restroom per stall and only one person in any stall at a time,
and requiring that patrons shall not be allowed access to manager’s station
areas;
      (3)   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all
window, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded; and
      (4)   The diagram required shall not necessarily be a professional
engineer’s or architect’s blueprint; however, the diagram must show marked
internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures and ratings for
illumination capacity.
   (B)   Unobstructed views. It shall be the duty of licensee and licensee’s
employees to ensure that the views from the manager’s station of all areas
specified in division (A)(1) above remain unobstructed by any materials at all
times that any patron is present in the premises, and to ensure that no patron
is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been designed as an
area in which patrons will not be permitted.
   (C)   Lighting. The premises shall at all times be equipped and operated
with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every
place to which patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than
two foot-candles measured at floor level. It shall be the duty of licensee and
licensee’s employees present on the premises to ensure that the illumination
described above is maintained at all times that any patron is present in the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-17)
§ 155.497 SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS; INTERIOR DESIGN.
   (A)   Adult theaters shall require that the performance area shall be
separated from the patrons by a minimum of three feet, which separation shall
be delineated by a physical barrier at least three feet high.
   (B)   It is unlawful for business premises licensed for seminude
entertainment to:
      (1)   Permit a bed, sofa, mattress or similar item in any room on the
premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the
public or in an office to which patrons are not admitted, and except that in an
adult theater, such items may be on the stage as part of a performance;
      (2)   Allow any door in any room used for the business, except for the
door to an office to which patrons shall not be admitted, outside doors and
restroom doors to be lockable from the inside; or
      (3)   Provide any room in which the employee or employees and the patron
or patrons are alone together without a separation by a solid physical barrier
at least three feet high and six inches wide. The patron or patrons shall
remain on one side of the barrier and the employee or employees shall remain on
the other side of the barrier.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-18) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.498 ALCOHOL PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any business licensed pursuant to this subchapter to
allow the sale, storage, supply or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises. It is unlawful for any person to possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage on the premises of any sexually-oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-19) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.499 SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or
otherwise engage the services of a professional dancer, model or performer to
appear in a state of seminudity for pecuniary compensation in, or for, any
seminude entertainment business or adult theater licensed pursuant to this
subchapter, unless such agency is licensed pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or
otherwise engage or permit any person to perform as a professional dancer,
model or performer in a state of seminudity either gratuitously or for
compensation in, or for, any business licensed pursuant to this subchapter,
unless such person is employed by a seminude dancing agency licensed pursuant
to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-20) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.500 NUDITY; DEFENSE TO PROSECUTION.
   It is a defense to prosecution or violation under this subchapter that a
person appearing in a state of nudity did so in modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state or a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
(Prior Code, § 8-18-21)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
§ 155.515 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to:
      (1)   Ensure that all telecommunications facilities comply with federal,
state and county regulations;
      (2)   Regulate telecommunications services, antennas and support
structures and related electronic equipment and equipment enclosures;
      (3)   Provide for the orderly establishment of telecommunications
facilities in the county;
      (4)   Minimize the number of antenna support structures by encouraging
the collocation of multiple antennas on a single structure, and by encouraging
the location of antennas on preexisting structures;
      (5)   Establish siting, appearance and safety standards that will help
mitigate potential impacts related to the construction, use and maintenance of
telecommunications facilities; and
      (6)   Comply with the Telecommunications Act of 1996, being Pubic Law:
104-104, Statutes at Large: 110 Stat. 56, by establishing regulations that:
         (a)   Do not unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally
equivalent services;
         (b)   Do not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision
of telecommunications services;
         (c)   Are not based on any claimed environmental effects of radio
frequency emissions to the extent that such facilities comply with the Federal
Communication Commission regulations concerning such emissions; and
         (d)   Ensure that all utility facilities and structures are located,
installed, buffered, screened and maintained in a manner that will minimize the
impact of such facilities and structures on nearby landowners and will not
adversely affect the rural, agricultural, small-town character and scenic
beauty of the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-1)
   (B)   Findings.
      (1)   The telecommunications facilities are an integral part of the
rapidly growing and evolving telecommunications industry and present unique
zoning challenges for the county.
      (2)   The county wishes to balance the interests and desires of the
telecommunications industry and its customers to provide competitive and
effective telecommunications systems in the county, with the sometimes
differing interests and desires of others concerning health, safety, welfare
and aesthetics issues and orderly planning of the community.
      (3)   The county has experienced and increased demand for
telecommunications facilities to be located in the county and expects the
increased demand to continue into the future.
      (4)   It is the best interests of the citizens of the county to have
quality telecommunications services available, which necessarily entails the
installation of telecommunications facilities within the county boundaries.
      (5)   The visual effects of telecommunications facilities can be
mitigated by fair standards regulating their siting, construction, maintenance
and use.
      (6)   Locating antennas on existing buildings and structures creates less
of a visual impact on the community than the erection of towers.
      (7)   Buildings and structures on public and private property are capable
of being used to provide support for antenna arrays, thus reducing the number
of towers in all areas of the county.
      (8)   The placement of telecommunication facilities on public property
usually distributes the positive and negative effects of telecommunication
facilities most equitably.
      (9)   The public policy objective of mitigating the impact of
telecommunications towers can best be facilitated by permitting the locating of
systems on existing buildings, towers and antenna support structures.
      (10)   The provisions set forth in this section for the placement of
telecommunications facilities will contribute to the health, safety and general
welfare of the community.
      (11)   UCA Title 69, Chapter 3, grants counties the authority to create
or acquire sites to accommodate the erection of telecommunications towers and
facilities in order to promote the location within a manageable area and to
protect the aesthetics and environment of the area. The law also allows the
county to require the owner of any tower to accommodate the multiple use of the
tower by other companies where feasible and to pay the county the fair market
rental value for the use of any county-owned site.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-2)
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANTENNA. Any system of wires, poles, rods, arms, reflecting discs or
similar devices of various sizes, materials and shapes, including, but not
limited to, solid or wire mesh dish, home, spherical or bar configurations used
for wireless transmission. Types of ANTENNAS include, but are not limited to,
the following.
         (a)   ROOF-MOUNTED ANTENNA. An antenna mounted directly to the roof of
a building, mechanical penthouse or parapet enclosure wall that is on the
rooftop of a building.
         (b)   TOP HAT ANTENNA. Spatial array of antennas, generally located on
a freestanding structure, where the visible width of antennas and antenna
mounting structures are more than two feet in width as viewed looking directly
at the structure.
         (c)   WALL-MOUNTED ANTENNA. Any antenna mounted directly to the fascia
or outside walls of a structure, existing parapet walls, penthouses or
mechanical equipment rooms, with no portion of the antenna extending above the
roofline of such structures.
      ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure, the principal purpose of which is
for location of antennas. Types of ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURES may include:
         (a)   LATTICE TOWER. A multiple-sided, open steel frame structure used
to support one or more antennas. LATTICE TOWERS and guyed structures are not
allowed in any zone, except towers under 70 feet that are owned and operated by
a federally-licensed amateur radio station operator or are used exclusively for
receive only antennas; and/or
         (b)   MONOPOLE. A standing antenna support structure placed directly
on the ground to support one or more antennas.
      CELL ON WHEELS (COW). A mobile, temporary telecommunications facility
which is located and operated on a trailer for 30 days or less.
      COLLOCATION. A telecommunications facility that includes a single antenna
support structure, but more than one telecommunications provider’s antennas and
telecommunication equipment.
      EQUIPMENT ENCLOSURE. A structure, shelter, cabinet or vault used to house
and protect the electronic equipment necessary for processing wireless
communication signals and other telecommunication equipment.
      NONSTEALTH DESIGN. Any antenna or equipment enclosures not camouflaged in
a manner to blend with surrounding land uses, features or architecture.
NONSTEALTH DESIGN does not conceal the intended use of the telecommunications
facility. A monopole with equipment enclosures above the ground and unscreened
would be considered NONSTEALTH.
      STEALTH. Antennas, antenna support structures and telecommunication
equipment enclosures camouflaged or designed to blend with surrounding land
uses, features and architecture, thus minimizing the aesthetic impact on
adjacent uses, thereby concealing the intended use and appearance of the
telecommunications facility such as heavy landscaping, or installing
telecommunications equipment within existing buildings, behind vegetative
screening or placing equipment enclosures underground, thus preserving or
striving to maintain the rural aesthetics of the county. A flush wall mount
antenna that is painted the same color as the background and located on a
building where the telecommunications equipment is located inside the building
would be one example of STEALTH design. Other examples of STEALTH design
include, but may not necessarily limited to, roof mount antennas, utility pole
antennas, light or flagpoles, artificial rocks or trees.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. Equipment used in a telecommunications
facility, other than the antenna, antenna support structure or equipment
enclosures. TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT may include, but is not limited to,
electronic equipment necessary for processing wireless communication signals,
air conditioning, backup power supplies and emergency generators.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. An unmanned structure which consists of
“antennas,” “antenna support structures,” “telecommunications equipment” or
“equipment enclosures,” as defined in this division (C), that transmit and/or
receive voice and/or data communications through radio signals, such as, but
not limited to, “cellular” or “PCS” (personal communications system)
communications and paging systems, whether commercially or privately operated.
Such sites typically require the construction of transmission support
structures, access roads, fences and any other attendant infrastructure. A
monopole by itself without an accompanying lease agreement or other agency
agreement acceptable to the County Attorney with a wireless telecommunications
provider company does not qualify as a wireless TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-3)
   (D)   General review provisions; exemptions.
      (1)   Impact study. The county may, if it deems necessary, cause the
applicant to submit an impact study from a qualified, third-party radio
frequency engineer, to ensure that the proposed telecommunications facility
will not interfere with existing radio, television and emergency signals. The
purpose of the review shall be to determine if other sites are available which
can achieve an equivalent signal distribution without significantly affecting
the existing telecommunication operations within the county. Such a review may
be required when an applicant indicates that no other acceptable site exists.
These costs shall be borne by the applicant. If the applicant disagrees with
staff or the Planning Commission regarding this impact study, then an appeal
can be made before the County Commission.
      (2)   Types of use permits. Communication facilities applications shall
be considered for either a temporary use permit, conditional use permit or
permitted use permit.
      (3)   Exempt towers. Towers under 70 feet that are owned and operated by
a federally-licensed amateur radio station operator or towers used exclusively
for receive only antennas are exempt from this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-4)
   (E)   Construction standards.
      (1)   Building Codes and safety standards. To ensure the structural
integrity of telecommunications facilities, the owner of a telecommunication
facility shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards
contained in applicable local Building Codes and the applicable standards for
such telecommunications facilities, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   Letter of intent. All applicants, who apply to build a tower, shall
provide one letter of intent from a telecommunications company that will locate
on the tower.
      (3)   Lattice towers and guywires. Lattice towers and guyed structures
are not allowed in any zone, except towers described in this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-5)
   (F)   General requirements.
      (1)   Setbacks. Telecommunication facility presumptive setback shall be
115% of the tower’s height from the property line or what the zone dictates,
whichever is greater. Planning staff, upon review of the application, can vary
setbacks if the telecommunication facility can be hidden more appropriately by
topography, vegetation or existing structures; however, the adjacent landowner
must provide written agreement approved by the County Attorney of the proximity
to his or her property line.
      (2)   Height. Height of towers shall be minimized as much as reasonably
possible. Height of the telecommunication facilities shall be measured from the
existing grade to the top of the antenna support structure or to the highest
point of any portion of the telecommunications facility, whichever is greater.
If the proposed site is a roof mount or wall mount, the county may request that
the study verify that the existing or proposed screening will screen the
telecommunications facility from view. Heights shall be no higher than 60 feet
in any zone allowed, and up to 100 feet if the monopole is stealth, requires
additional height for coverage and/or collocation and the applicant has taken
all reasonable steps to mitigate adverse effects on the surrounding
neighborhood.
      (3)   Signage. Signs shall be limited to nonilluminated warning and
equipment identification signs, unless warranted by FAA, FCC or any other
agency of the state or federal government with the authority to regulate towers
and antennas.
      (4)   Access roads. Access roads shall be limited to ten feet in width,
except where safety considerations require otherwise. Said roads shall contain
gravel or other nonpaved surface. Existing roads shall, whenever possible, be
upgraded the minimum amount necessary.
      (5)   Zoning. Telecommunication facilities are allowed in larger than RR-
1 Zones and legal lots two acres or greater.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-6)
   (G)   Temporary use permit. If an applicant submits an application for a
COW, the applicant must comply with division (J) below.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-7)
   (H)   Conditional use permit. For all new telecommunication facilities, the
applicant shall submit a master plan along with a completed application and a
site justification study for each proposed telecommunications facility or site.
A site justification study and master plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Department. This study shall provide a review of the proposed project to ensure
that the provisions of this chapter are being met. If the application is a
collocation or stealth, go to the permitted use permit provisions of division
(M) below for application requirements. Permitted uses shall be reviewed and
approved by the planning staff. Temporary and conditional uses shall be
reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission and approved by the County
Commission. Any conflicts shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
consideration. Said Planning Commission shall review and render a decision by:
Approving the application; approving the application with conditions; or
denying the application. The applicant shall request in written form what
information submitted with the application is to be kept confidential from
public review.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-8)
   (I)   Master plan requirements. A master plan shall be completed by each
company submitting an application for a conditional use review. The master plan
shall show:
      (1)   Where the applicant’s proposed, existing and future
telecommunication facilities are within the county. The master plan may be
amended as needed by the carrier for future site applications as long as the
planning staff justifies the amendment;
      (2)   The number of possible collocations that can be physically located
on the proposed tower;
      (3)   The master plan shall contain a copy of the applicant’s current FCC
license to the Planning Department;
      (4)   An initial indication of where the road or access will be located
to the proposed site. Prior to approval of a building permit, the applicant
shall provide staff with a copy of recorded easements to the proposed site; and
      (5)   A signed agreement, stating that the applicant will:
         (a)   Allow collocation with other users, provided all safety,
structural and technological requirements are met. This agreement shall also
state that any future owners or operators will allow collocation on the tower;
         (b)   Restore site to its former condition as provided in division (P)
below relative to nonmaintained or abandoned facilities;
         (c)   A security program or system that addresses unauthorized access
and vandalism; and
         (d)   Latitude and longitude of proposed tower location.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-9)
   (J)   Site justification study requirements.
      (1)   Included information. A site justification study shall be completed
for each site. The study shall include:
         (a)   Rationale. The site justification study shall include a
description of the elevations, vegetation and rock formations at the proposed
site and in the area, a description of the telecommunications facilities
proposed to be placed on the site with technical reasons for a tower, its
location and its design efforts made to minimize impacts on the farming
activities found on the land propagation information for the proposed site,
demonstrating that the telecommunications facility complies with the county’s
General Plan, as well as the required setback and landscaping requirements of
the zoning district in which the proposal is being made. The Planning
Commission may waive or reduce the burden on applicant if the Planning
Commission concludes that the goals of this section are better served thereby;
         (b)   Collocation. The study shall also examine the potential for
collocation at existing sites or the proposed site. If collocation is not
possible at an existing site or if the proposed new site is not available for
collocation, then the applicant shall include a written explanation of why
collocation is not possible;
         (c)   Equipment enclosures. The study must include a detailed written
explanation and analysis, not limited to fiscal reasons alone, of the potential
for the equipment enclosures to be either:
            1.   Located in any existing building; or
            2.   Designed whereby the incorporation of stealth design
technology or other visual screening is utilized that readily conceals the
appearance of the equipment enclosures.
         (d)   Visual analysis. On all new sites, the applicant shall submit a
detailed 24- inch by 36-inch surveyed map, not more than one inch equals 100
feet, which includes:
            1.   The topography of the area (in two-foot elevations) in which
tower and/or telecommunication facilities can be located while continuing to
communicate with sister towers.
            2.   Delineation of where telecommunication facilities can be
placed so as to minimize:
               a.   The placement of structures from being placed on slopes of
30%, or greater;
               b.   The intrusion of equipment enclosures from being
silhouetted against the sky as seen from a public road or other public
location; and
               c.   Graphical illustration of the coverage of the proposed
telecommunication facility.
      (2)   Illustration required. Once the applicant and staff locate a site,
the applicant shall provide an illustration which can include photo simulation,
field mockup or other techniques, which illustrate all possible visual impacts
of the proposed telecommunication facility. The analysis should consider views
from public areas (streets, parks and the like) and from private residences.
The applicant should identify all reasonable mitigation measures consistent
with the technical aspects and requirements of the proposed telecommunications
facility to ensure that hill cuts for roads are minimized and that the
telecommunication facility can be hidden as best as possible to preserve the
rural character of the county. All costs associated with this requirement are
to be borne by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-10)
   (K)   Public hearing. All conditional use applications shall have a public
hearing before the Planning Commission. Public hearings by the governing body
are optional. In addition to all other notices required by law and no less than
ten days prior to the public hearing, the applicant shall cause that a sign be
constructed and placed on the lot where the proposed wireless telecommunication
facilities are to be located. The sign shall be placed near the frontage road
in a conspicuous location, with its view unobstructed, so as to be easily read
by the public. The sign must be two feet by three feet in size and must state
that a public hearing is to be held on the erection of a tower or other
wireless telecommunications facility on this lot. The sign shall give the date,
time and place of the hearing. The words “a public hearing” must be printed in
letters at least four inches high. Following the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall make a recommendation to the County Commission regarding an
approval, approval with conditions or a denial of the application.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-11)
   (L)   Public notice. The applicant shall provide stamped, addressed
envelopes for each property owner within 600 feet of the proposed facility
property line, or 1,200 feet from the proposed facility, whichever is less.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-12)
   (M)   Permitted use permit.
         (1)   Conditional use permit. Any request for telecommunications
facilities differing from the standards as allowed in this division (M) shall
require a conditional use permit.
         (2)   Compliance with General Plan. Telecommunications facilities must
comply with the county’s General Plan.
         (3)   Type permitted. All permitted use telecommunication facilities
listed in this division (M) must be a collocation stealth design, or of a
height of 35 feet or less.
            (a)   Collocation. Be located on an existing antenna support
structure without having to replace or extend said tower.
            (b)   Stealth. Incorporate stealth design technology or other
visual screening that readily conceals the appearance of the antenna support
structures and equipment enclosures. Stealth design can be incorporated on
existing facilities. Some examples may include, but not be limited to, roof
mounts, wall mounts and utility, light or flagpole antennas.
            (c)   Towers. Towers 35 feet or less are permitted if in agreement
to all other criteria of this section.
         (4)   Conflicts; Planning Commission review. If there is a conflict
between planning staff and applicant, the application shall be referred to the
Planning Commission for review.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-13)
   (N)   Master plan.
      (1)   Amendment of master plan. Where the applicant’s proposed, existing
and future telecommunication facilities are within the county, the master plan
may be amended as needed by the carrier for future site applications as long as
the planning staff justifies the amendment.
      (2)   FCC license provided. The master plan shall contain a copy of the
applicant’s current FCC license to the Planning Department.
      (3)   Site justification study requirements.
         (a)   The study must include a detailed written explanation and
analysis, not limited to fiscal reasons alone, of the potential for the
equipment enclosures to be either:
            1.   Located in an existing building; or
            2.   Designed whereby the incorporation of stealth design
technology or other visual screening is utilized that readily conceals the
appearance of the equipment enclosures.
         (b)   Delineation of where telecommunication facilities can be placed
so as to minimize the placement of structures from being placed on slopes of
30% or greater; and
         (c)   The intrusion of equipment enclosures from being silhouetted
against the sky as seen from a public road or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-14)
   (O) Permitted use review process. In proposals where either the applicant or
the Planning Department determines that potential issues may arise or
additional comment is needed from the community, a public hearing on the
application may be scheduled with the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-15)
   (P)   Nonmaintained or abandoned facilities. The Planning Department may
require each nonmaintained or abandoned telecommunication facility to be
removed when such telecommunication facility has not been repaired or put into
use by the owner, person having control or person receiving benefit of such
structure after six months of continuous nonuse and after 90 days’ written
notice of nonmaintenance or abandonment is given to the owner, person having
control or person receiving the benefit of such structure.
(Prior Code, § 8-19-16)
(Ord. 17-13, passed 2-7-2017) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.516 AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA TOWERS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purposes of this section are as follows:
         (a)   To ensure that amateur radio antenna towers comply with federal,
state and county regulations; and
         (b)   Provide reasonable accommodation for amateur radio
communications as directed by UCA § 17-27a-514.
      (2)   This section shall supersede any ordinance or regulation to the
contrary.
(Prior Code, § 8-20-1)
   (B)   Tower defined. A TOWER shall be defined as an amateur radio antenna
tower structure greater than 35 feet used for amateur radio communications.
Height of the telecommunication facilities shall be measured from the existing
grade to the top of the antenna support structure or to the highest point of
any portion of the telecommunications facility, whichever is greater.
(Prior Code, § 8-20-2)
   (C)   Permitted use permit. Any request for an antenna tower differing from
the standards allowed in this division (C) will require a conditional use
permit:
      (1)   Towers less than 75 feet in height; and
      (2)   Towers in this section, a setback greater than the tower height is
required.
(Prior Code, § 8-20-3)
   (D)   Conditional use permit. Towers listed below shall require a
conditional use permit:
      (1)   Towers less than 75 feet in height;
      (2)   For towers in this section, the setback shall be per accessory
structures in underlying zone district; and
      (3)   Towers exceeding 75 feet in height must follow the site
justification requirements and visual impact assessments outlined in division
(J) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-20-4)
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
§ 155.530 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide procedures and minimum
standards for the review, consideration and possible approval of development
agreements by the County Commission.
   (B)   A development agreement may only be approved, if in the opinion of the
County Commission, such development agreement is found:
      (1)   To recognize the nature of the subject property by tailoring
development standards and requirements that provide a more desirable land use
planning and regulatory scheme than would be possible under the county’s
existing land use ordinances; or
      (2)   To advance the policies of the county.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-1) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.531 ELIGIBILITY.
   All persons entering into a development agreement with the county must have
a legal or equitable interest in the property that is the subject of the
development agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-2) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.532 SCOPE.
   (A)   Unless expressly required elsewhere in this chapter, a development
agreement is an optional land use regulatory tool that may be used, at the
discretion of the County Commission, as provided in §
155.530 of this code. No provision herein shall obligate the County Commission
to enter into a development agreement.
   (B)   The provisions and requirements of this subchapter shall be determined
to be minimum standards. The County Commission may require additional
provisions and requirements depending on the nature and scope of the land(s)
affected and the particular purposes and intent(s) of the development
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-3) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.533 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   All development agreements entered into by the county shall, at a minimum,
be found to comply with the following minimum standards:
   (A)   Be in writing;
   (B)   Provide an accurate legal description of the subject property and the
names of all legal and equitable owners;
   (C)   Provide a conceptual subdivision layout or site plan including, but
not limited to, the location and arrangement of all allowed uses, circulation
patterns and all required dedications and improvements;
   (D)   Provide the terms of the agreement, and any term extension requirement
(s);
   (E)   Identify all allowed uses for the subject property and the procedures
required for the approval of each identified use;
   (F)   Identify all applicable development standards, including the timing
and obligations associated with the provision of necessary infrastructure and
services;
   (G)   Provide for the provision and installation of required public
infrastructure and services;
   (H)   Provide a listing of all features and facilities being voluntarily
provided to the county, or other public or private agency, as applicable if
any, in addition to those typically required by the county’s land use
ordinances;
   (I)   Provide a description of any reservation or dedication of lands for
public purposes;
   (J)   Provide a description of any conditions, terms, restrictions or other
requirements determined to be necessary to promote the public health, safety or
welfare or the purposes of the development agreement;
   (K)   Identify enforcement mechanisms determined necessary to ensure
compliance;
   (L)   Provide for the recording of the approved development agreement in the
office of the County Recorder. The signed and recorded copy of the development
agreement shall be considered the official executed copy of said agreement; and
   (M)   Include any additional requirements identified by the County
Commission determined necessary to advance the interests of the county and
other provisions and requirements to protect the public health, welfare and
safety of the county and its residents.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-4) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.534 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All development agreements shall be considered and approved by the
County Commission at a regular meeting. If a development agreement contains any
provision proposing to amend the county’s General Plan or land use ordinance,
including zoning designation of the subject property, the procedures of the
county required for a General Plan or land use ordinance amendment shall be
followed, including complying with all noticing and public hearing
requirements.
   (B)   The County Commission shall consider all materials presented and shall
approve or deny the proposed development agreement, with or without
requirements and conditions and with necessary findings. If approved, the
County Commission Chairperson, on behalf of the county, and the applicant shall
sign and execute the development agreement, as approved.
   (C)   Within 14 business days of signature by the County Commission
Chairperson and the applicant, the development agreement shall be recorded in
the office of the County Recorder, which the recorded agreement constitutes the
official document of the county.
   (D)   The County Commission, in considering a development agreement, may
request a recommendation of the Planning Commission on planning, allowed uses
or other development matters that may be associated with the proposed
development agreement.
   (E)   In the event that a development agreement is amended after being
executed by the affected parties, a notice of amendment shall be sent by
certified mail to all property owners with interest in the property as
described in the development agreement. Such notice shall at a minimum explain
the amendment and provide information about where the amendment may be
retrieved from the County Recorder’s office. Expenses for the notice shall be
borne by the developer.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-5) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.535 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT REVIEW.
   In reviewing a proposed development agreement, the County Commission may
consider, but shall not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Public impacts and benefits;
   (B)   Adequacy in the provision of all necessary public infrastructure and
services;
   (C)   Appropriateness and adequacy of environmental protection measures; and
   (D)   Protection and enhancements of the public health, welfare and safety
above those provided by the existing land use ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-6) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.536 EFFECT OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   A development agreement, as approved by the County Commission and
recorded as required by §
155.534 of this code, shall be controlling for the subject property, and shall
modify the county’s land use ordinances to the extent specifically identified
by the development agreement.
   (B)   Only those county land use ordinance provisions specifically
identified by the development agreement shall be modified. All other land use
ordinance requirements shall remain in full force and effect.
   (C)   A development agreement shall not prevent the county from applying any
new provisions or regulations to the subject property that do not conflict with
those contained within the development agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-7) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.537 BINDING NATURE OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   All development agreements shall be binding on the county and the applicant
and on all successors and assigns for the term of the agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-8) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.538 EXPENSES.
   The county may require the applicant to reimburse the county for all
reasonable expenses incurred by the county related to the preparation and
adoption of a development agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-9) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.539 ENFORCEMENT.
   The county may utilize all legally available enforcement mechanisms
necessary to achieve compliance with this subchapter and any development
agreement including, but not limited to, the withholding of necessary land use
approvals and permits.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-10) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.540 MODIFICATION OR SUSPENSION TO COMPLY WITH STATE OR FEDERAL LAWS.
   In the event that federal or state laws or regulations, enacted after the
adoption of a development agreement, prevent or preclude compliance with one or
more provisions of the agreement, such provisions of the agreement shall be
suspended, as may be necessary to comply with such federal or state laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-11) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.541 NONCOMPLIANCE.
   In the event a development agreement is terminated as a result of
noncompliance by the subject property owner the subject property shall revert
to the General Plan and zoning district designation that existed prior to the
enactment of the development agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8-21-12) (Ord. 13-06, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation or the principals or
agents thereof, violating or causing the violation of any provision of this
chapter, as the same may be amended from time to time, shall be subject to the
following penalties.
      (1)   Criminal penalty.
         (a)   Any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent or
employee, who violates or causes the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, as allowed by UCA § 17-27a-
803 and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
         (b)   In addition, the following may institute injunction, mandamus,
abatement or any other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin,
abate or remove such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, maintenance or use:
            1.   The county by action of the governing body; or
            2.   Any owner of real estate within the zoning district in which
an alleged violation of this chapter has occurred; or the owner of real estate
across a zoning district line and abutting or facing the real estate where the
alleged violation has occurred.
      (2)   Civil penalties. In lieu of pursuing criminal remedies with respect
to any violation of any provision of this chapter, the county may elect, in its
sole discretion based upon the particular facts and circumstances of each case,
to pursue the following civil remedies regarding such violation. The following
civil remedies may not be pursued for a violation that occurs in conjunction
with a criminal violation as part of a single criminal episode that will be
prosecuted in a criminal proceeding, but the following civil remedies may be
pursued if no criminal proceedings will occur with respect to the violation.
         (a)   Courtesy notice. The Zoning Administrator or designee will
investigate alleged zoning violations and determine if a violation exists. If a
violation exists, the county shall send a courtesy notice to the property
owner, stating the nature of the violation, possible action of the county and
allowing a ten day compliance period in which the property owner may either
bring the property into compliance or meet with the Zoning Administrator for an
inspection to determine if in fact a violation exists and what remedies may be
available to the property owner. Courtesy notice shall be delivered by
certified mail or shall be served by a constable.
         (b)   Notice to comply.
            1.   The county shall issue a written notice to comply regarding
each such violation to the offending party, which written notice shall identify
the offending party, identify the violation, set forth the time period afforded
to the offending party to come into compliance with this chapter and thereby
avoid further enforcement proceedings, and set forth the date, time and
location of the administrative hearing to be held regarding the same in the
event that the offending party does not comply within the prescribed time
period. For a first-time offense, the applicable compliance period shall be 30
calendar days from the date of the written notice to comply.
            2.   If the offending party is unable to correct the offense within
the allowed compliance period, the party may request an extension. The
extension must be in writing and must be signed by all property owners, tenants
and parties, with all signatures notarized. The request for extension shall
contain the requested extension date, factual evidence as to why the extension
is justified and a commitment to correct the violation within the extension
period. The extension may be granted by the Zoning Administrator at his or her
discretion. Written approval or denial of the extension will be given to the
offending party. In the event that the Zoning Administrator does not grant the
extension, his or her decision may be appealed to the administrative hearing
officer.
            3.   In the event that a second notice to comply is issued to the
same party with respect to a particular violation within any rolling 12-month
period, the applicable compliance period shall be 15 calendar days from the
date of the written notice to comply. In the event that a third notice to
comply is issued to the same party with respect to a particular violation
within any rolling 12- month period, the applicable compliance period shall be
the next calendar day after the date of the written notice to comply. Notice
shall be delivered by certified mail or shall be served by a constable.
         (c)   Amount of civil penalty. If a violation is not completely cured
within the time period set forth in the written notice to comply, then such
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty
in the minimum amount of $25 and the maximum amount of $100 per day, depending
upon the particular facts and circumstances of each case, which fine shall be
imposed beginning on the first calendar day after the applicable compliance
period has expired and ending on the date that the violation is completely
cured and the offending party is in full compliance with this chapter with
respect thereto.
         (d)   Administrative hearing. The administrative hearing shall be a
public meeting during regularly scheduled hours, conducted by an administrative
law judge appointed by the County Commission (which administrative law judge
may be an employee of the county). The offending party shall be given an
opportunity to be heard at the administrative hearing and shall otherwise be
afforded due process. The administrative hearing shall be recorded or otherwise
documented so that a true and correct transcript may be made of its
proceedings. The administrative law judge shall make a final administrative
determination with respect to the citation, which determination may be that
there was no violation, or that a violation occurred and must be abated, and
the amount of the appropriate civil penalty within the parameters set forth
herein.
         (e)   Appeal. Any person adversely affected by any such administrative
proceeding and order may petition a district court for review of the
determination. In the petition, the petitioner may only allege that the
administrative order was arbitrary, capricious or illegal. The petition is
barred unless it is filed within 30 calendar days after the administrative
order is final. No evidence may be submitted to the district court as part of
such petition that is not included in the administrative record of the
proceedings unless the evidence was offered to the administrative law judge as
part of the administrative hearing and the district court determines that the
evidence was improperly excluded by the administrative law judge.
         (f)   Collection. In the event that the county is required to take
formal legal action to collect any civil penalty imposed pursuant to this
division (B)(2)(f), the person responsible therefor shall also be responsible
for paying any costs of collection incurred by the county, including, but not
limited to, reasonable attorney fees, which costs of collection may exceed the
amount of the civil penalty itself. Collection may be opened by obtaining a
judgment in small claims court and/or attaching a tax lien on the property.
      (3)   Third-party enforcement. Each and every continuing violation of any
provision of this chapter is declared to constitute a nuisance. Private
citizens of and/or property owners in the county shall also have the right to
commence and pursue formal civil legal proceedings with respect to any ongoing
violations affecting their interests; provided, that no such legal action shall
be filed until after the expiration of 30 calendar days from the date that a
written notice of intent to commence such legal proceedings is actually
received by the County Clerk. The prevailing party in any such private civil
legal proceedings shall be entitled to an award of reasonable attorney fees
incurred in pursuing or defending such action.
      (4)   Inspector to issue fix-it tickets. The Planner/Building Inspector
is hereby authorized to issue fix-it tickets to persons whom it is his or her
opinion are violating this chapter. The other law enforcement personnel,
including the Sheriff’s force and animal control officers, are hereby
authorized to issue fix-it tickets to such persons as they believe are
violating county ordinances:
         (a)   A person authorized to issue a fix-it ticket may set down on the
ticket the terms for which the ticket is issued, which shall give the person
receiving the fix-it ticket a reasonable time in which to rectify the conceived
violation of this chapter or other ordinances of the county;
         (b)   If a person receiving a fix-it ticket does not respond and
rectify the perceived violation of county ordinances, including this chapter,
within the time permitted by the issuer of the fix-it ticket, then and in that
event such failure shall be considered a violation of the county ordinances;
and
         (c)   A violation of county ordinances and failure to respond to a
fix-it ticket shall be and is hereby ordained to be a class B misdemeanor and
shall be punishable in accordance with the statutes of the state fixing
penalties for a class B misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8)
   (C)   Any person who after being formally charged with the violation of any
provision of §§
155.200 through
155.207 of this code and is subsequently found guilty on such charges, shall be
deemed guilty of a class C misdemeanor, punishable as provided in §
10.99of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-5H-7)
   (D)   It shall be a class C misdemeanor for any person to fail to comply
with the provisions of §§
155.385 through
155.450 of this code. In addition to any criminal prosecution, the county may
pursue any other legal remedy to ensure compliance with this chapter including,
but not limited to, injunctive relief and the withholding of approvals.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-13)
(Ord. 10-16, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. 19-09, passed 10-15-2019; Ord. 20-15,
passed 10-20-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Utah Code Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO UTAH CODE ANNOTATED
UCA Section Code Section
UCA Section                  Code Section
8-3-1                        155.353
9-7-502                      33.015
10-8-85.4                    155.350
10-9a-603                    155.008
                             151.40,
11-36a                       151.41,
                             155.008
11-36a-302(1)                151.43
11-36a-303                   151.41
11-36a-502                   151.44
11-36a-601                   151.44
11-36a-602                   151.44
11-36a-701 et seq.           151.47
11-36a-702                   151.47
11-36a-703(2)(a)             151.47
11-36a-705                   151.47
Title 15A                    155.221
15A-5-103                    152.01
16-6a-101                    155.008
Title 17                     30.01,
                             31.01
17-16-6                      31.01
17-22-2 et seq.              32.01
17-25-1 et seq.              32.01
17-27a-103                   155.221,
                             155.396
17-27a-103(60)(c) et seq.    155.393
17-27a-205                   155.021,
                             155.023
17-27a-211                   155.395
17-27A-302(6)(B)(i) and (ii) 155.028
17-27a-403 et seq.           155.008
17-27a-507(5)(d)             155.451
17-27a-514                   155.516
17-27a-523                   155.008,
                             155.448
17-27a-523(5)                155.448
17-27a-603                   155.008
17-27a-603 et seq.           155.008
17-27a-605                   155.449
17-27a-608                   155.008,
                             155.448
17-27a-801                   155.397
17-27a-801 et seq.           155.030
17-27a-803                   155.999
                             35.02,
17-31                        35.03,
                             35.05
17-41                        151.03
17-41-201                    151.03
17-41-301(4)                 151.03
17-53-202                    31.01
17-53-208                    152.01
Title 17A                    155.008
17C-1-201.5                  33.001
17C-1-201.5(2)(a)            33.001
17-563-208                   151.05
20A-1-508                    31.01
Title 20A, Chapter 7         30.02
20A-7-503                    31.01
Title 20A, Chapter 9, Part 5 30.02,
                             31.01
Title 23                     92.007
23-13-17                     91.35
32A-10-206                   111.04
32B-1-101                    110.03
32B-1-102                    150.27
Title 41, Chapter 6a         70.01
41-1a-301                    34.41
41-1a-419(3)                 34.41
41-1a-1209                   34.41
41-1a-1222                   34.41
41-6a-102                    91.39
52-4                         155.008
                             33.020,
                             33.036,
                             33.037,
52-4-1 et seq.               33.054,
                             151.03,
                             155.030,
                             155.048
53-7-106(2)(a)               152.04
53-7-204(3)                  152.01
Title 54                     35.28
57-2a                        155.444
57-8-1 et seq.               155.008,
                             155.450
57-8-3                       155.450
58-22-101 et seq.            155.371
58-55                        112.07
59-1-401                     35.99
59-1-402                     35.99
                             34.20,
59-2-102                     34.21,
                             34.25
59-2-103                     34.21,
                             34.25
59-2-103(2)                  34.20
59-2-103.5                   34.20
59-2-502 et seq.             155.393
59-2-1317                    34.05
59-2-1320                    34.06
59-2-1321                    34.02
59-2-1351                    34.55
59-12                        35.26,
                             35.28
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1 35.05,
                             35.44
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 2 35.05
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 3 35.05
59-12-2                      35.05
59-12-103(1)                 35.43
59-12-104                    35.43,
                             35.46
                             35.05,
59-12-106                    35.28,
                             35.66
59-12-201 et seq.            35.45
59-12-205(2)                 35.45,
                             35.65
59-12-206                    35.45
59-12-601.1 et seq.          35.61
59-12-603(1)(a)(i)(A)        35.63
59-12-603(1)(a)(i)(B)        35.63
59-12-1101 et seq.           35.41
59-12-1102                   35.45
59-12-2217                   35.43
59-12-2219                   35.43
63F-1-701                    155.032
63G-2                        155.031
63G-2-101 et seq.            155.030,
                             155.048
63G-6-101 et seq.            36.03
65A-8-203(4)(a)              152.05
67-1a-6.5                    33.001
67-4a-101 et seq.            154.056
67-16-1 et seq.              154.037
Title 69, Chapter 3          155.515
72-2-117                     34.41
72-2-117.5                   34.41
72-10-101 et seq.            154.062
Title 73, Chapter 18         91.01
Title 73, Chapter 18a        91.01
Title 73, Chapter 18b        91.01
Title 73, Chapter 18c        91.01
73-18-17                     91.01
Title 76                     130.01
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2023 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2023 Code Section
1-4-1              10.99
1-4-2              10.99
1-5-1              30.01
1-5-2              31.01
1-5-3              30.02
1-6-1              31.01
1-6-2              31.01
1-6A-1             33.001
1-7-1              32.01
1-7-2              32.02,
                   32.99
1-8A-1             36.01
1-8A-2             36.02
1-8A-3             36.03
1-8A-4             36.04
1-8A-5             36.05
1-8A-6             36.06
1-8A-7             36.07
1-8A-8             36.08
1-8B-1             34.01
1-8B-2             34.02
1-8B-3             34.03
1-8B-4             34.04
1-8B-5             34.05
1-8B-6             34.06
1-8C-1             34.20
1-8C-2             34.21
1-8C-3             34.22
1-8C-4             34.23
1-8C-5             34.24
1-8C-6             34.25
1-8D-1             37.01
1-8D-2             37.02
1-8D-3             37.03
1-8D-4             37.04
1-8D-5             37.05
1-8E-1             34.40
1-8F-1             34.41
1-8F-2             34.41
1-8F-3             34.41
1-8F-4             34.41
1-8F-5             34.41
1-8F-6             34.41
1-8F-7             34.41
2-1-1              33.015
2-1-2              33.016
2-1-3              33.017
2-1-4              33.018
2-1-5              33.019
2-1-6              33.020
2-1-7              33.021
2-2-1              33.035
2-2-2              33.036
2-2-3              33.037
2-2-4              33.038
2-2-5              33.039
2-3-1              33.050
2-3-2              33.051
2-3-3              33.052
2-3-4              33.053
2-3-5              33.054
2-3-6              33.055
2-4-1              33.070
2-4-2              33.071
2-4-3              33.072
2-4-4              33.073
3-1-1              110.01
3-1-2              110.02
3-1-3              110.03
3-1-4              110.04
3-1-5              110.05
3-1-6              110.06
3-1-7              110.07
3-1-8              110.99
3-1-9              110.08
3-2-1              111.01
3-2-2              111.02
3-2-3              111.03,
                   111.99
3-2-4              111.04
3-2-5              111.05
3-2-6              111.99
3-3-1              112.01
3-3-2              112.02
3-3-3              112.03
3-3-4              112.04
3-3-5              112.05
3-3-6              112.06
3-3-7              112.07
3-3-8              112.99
3-4-1              93.01
3-4-2              93.02
3-4-3              93.03
3-4-4              93.04
3-4-5              93.04
3-4-6              93.06
3-4-7              93.07
3-4-8              93.08
3-4-9              93.09
3-4-10             93.99
3-5A-1             35.01
3-5A-2             35.02
3-5A-3             35.03
3-5A-4             35.04
3-5A-5             35.05
3-5A-6             35.06
3-5A-7             35.07
3-5A-8             35.08
3-5A-9             35.09
3-5A-10            35.10
3-5A-11            35.11
3-5A-12            35.99
3-5B-1             35.25
3-5B-2             35.26
3-5B-3             35.27
3-5B-4             35.28
3-5B-5             35.99
3-5C-1             35.40
3-5C-2             35.41
3-5C-3             35.42
3-5C-4             35.43
3-5C-5             35.44
3-5C-6             35.45
3-5C-7             35.46
3-5C-8             35.47
3-5D-1             35.60
3-5D-2             35.61
3-5D-3             35.62
3-5D-4             35.63
3-5D-5             35.64
3-5D-6             35.65
3-5D-7             35.66
4-1-1              90.01
4-1-2              90.02
4-1-3              90.03
4-1-4              90.04
4-1-5              90.99
4-2-1              50.01
5-1-1              130.01
5-2-1              130.02,
                   130.99
5-3-1              70.01
5-3-2              70.02
                   70.15 -
5-3-3              70.25,
                   70.99
5-4-1              91.01
5-4-2              91.01
5-5-1              92.001
5-5-2              92.002
5-5-3              92.003
5-5-4              92.020 -
                   92.033
5-5-5              92.045 -
                   92.052
5-5-6              92.004
5-5-7              92.005
5-5-8              92.006
5-5-9              92.065 -
                   92.073
5-5-10             92.999
5-6-1              92.007
5-6-2              92.007
5-7-1              91.02
5-7-2              91.02
5-8-1              91.15
5-8-2              91.16
5-8-3              91.17
5-8-4              91.18
5-8-5              91.19
5-8-6              91.20
5-8-7              91.99
5-9-1              91.35
5-9-2              91.36
5-9-3              91.37
5-9-4              91.38
5-9-5              91.39
5-9-6              91.99
5-10-1             93.20
5-10-2             93.21
5-10-3             93.22
5-10-4             93.23
5-10-5             93.24
5-10-6             93.25
5-10-7             93.26
5-11-1             91.03
5-11-2             91.03
5-11-3             91.03
5-11-4             91.99
6-1-1              150.01
6-1-2              150.02
6-1-3              150.03
6-1-4              150.04
6-1-5              150.05
6-1-6              150.06
6-1-7              150.07
6-1-8              150.08
6-1-9              150.09
6-1-10             150.10
6-1-11             150.99
6-2-1              150.25,
                   150.99
6-2-2              150.26,
                   150.99
6-3-1              150.27,
                   150.99
6-5-1              150.40
6-5-2              150.41
7-1-1              151.20
7-1-2              151.21
7-1-3              151.22
7-1-4              151.23
7-1-5              151.24
7-1-6              151.25
7-1-7              151.26
7-1-8              151.27
7-1-9              151.28
7-1-10             151.99
7-2-1              151.01
7-2-2              151.01
7-2-3              151.01
7-3-1              151.40
7-3-2              151.41
7-3-3              151.42
7-3-4              151.43
7-3-5              151.44
7-3-6              151.45
7-3-7              151.46
7-3-8              151.47
7-4-1              151.02
7-5-1              151.03
7-5-2              151.03
7-5-3              151.03
7-5-4              151.03
7-6-1              151.04
7-7-1              151.05
7-7-2              151.05
7-7-3              151.05
7-7-4              151.05
7-7-5              151.05
7-7-6              151.05
7-7-7              151.99
7-7-8              151.05
7-7-9              151.05
7-7-10             151.05
7-7-12             151.05
7-7-13             151.05
7-7-14             151.05
7-8-1              152.01
7-8-2              152.02
7-8-3              152.03
7-8-4              152.99
7-8-5              152.04
8-1-1              155.001
8-1-2              155.002
8-1-3              155.003
8-1-4              155.004
8-1-5              155.005
8-1-6              155.006
8-1-7              155.007
8-1-8              155.999
8-2-1              155.008
8-3-1              155.020
8-3-2              155.021
8-3-3              155.022
8-3-4              155.023
8-3-5              155.024
8-3-6              155.025
8-3-7              155.026
8-3-8              155.027
8-3-9              155.028
8-3-10             155.029
8-3-11             155.030
8-3-12             155.031
8-3-13             155.032
8-4-1              155.045
8-4-2              155.046
8-4-3              155.047
8-4-4              155.048
8-5-1              155.060
8-5-2              155.061
8-5-3              155.062
8-5-4              155.063
8-5-5              155.064
8-5-6              155.065
8-5-7              155.066
8-5-8              155.067
8-5-9              155.068
8-5A-1             155.080
8-5A-2             155.081
8-5A-3             155.082
8-5A-4             155.083
8-5A-5             155.084
8-5A-6             155.085
8-5A-7             155.086
8-5A-8             155.087
8-5A-9             155.088
8-5A-10            155.089
8-5A-11            155.090
8-5A-12            155.091
8-5B-1             155.105
8-5B-2             155.106
8-5B-3             155.107
8-5B-4             155.108
8-5B-5             155.109
8-5B-6             155.110
8-5B-7             155.111
8-5B-8             155.112
8-5B-9             155.113
8-5B-10            155.114
8-5B-11            155.115
8-5C-1             155.130
8-5C-2             155.131
8-5C-3             155.132
8-5C-4             155.133
8-5C-5             155.134
8-5C-6             155.135
8-5C-7I            155.150
8-5C-7II           155.151
8-5C-7III          155.152
8-5C-7IV           155.153
8-5C-7V            155.154
8-5C-7VI           155.155
8-5E-1             155.170
8-5E-2             155.171
8-5E-3             155.172
8-5E-4             155.173
8-5E-5             155.174
8-5G-1             155.185
8-5G-2             155.186
8-5G-3             155.187
8-5G-4             155.188
8-5G-5             155.189
8-5H-1             155.200
8-5H-2             155.201
8-5H-3             155.202
8-5H-4             155.203
8-5H-5             155.204
8-5H-6             155.205
8-5H-7             155.206,
                   155.999
8-5H-8             155.207
8-5I-1             155.220
8-5I-2             155.221
8-5I-3             155.222
8-5I-4             155.223
8-5I-5             155.224
8-5I-6             155.225
8-5I-7             155.226
8-5I-8             155.227
8-5I-10            155.229
8-5I-11            155.230
8-5I-12            155.231
8-5I-13            155.232
8-5I-14            155.233
8-5I-15            155.234
8-5I-16            155.235
8-5I-17            155.236
8-5I-18            155.237
8-5J-1             155.250
8-5J-2             155.251
8-5J-3             155.252
8-5K-1             155.265
8-5K-2             155.266
8-5K-3             155.267
8-5K-4             155.268
8-5K-5             155.269
8-5K-6             155.270
8-5L-1             155.285
8-5L-2             155.286
8-5L-3             155.287
8-5L-4             155.288
8-5L-5             155.289
8-5L-6             155.290
8-5L-7             155.291
8-5L-8             155.292
8-5L-9             155.293
8-5L-10            155.294
8-5L-11            155.295
8-5L-12            155.296
8-6-1              155.310
8-6-3              155.311
8-6-4              155.312
8-6-5              155.313
8-6-6              155.314
8-6-7              155.315
8-6-8              155.316
8-6-9              155.317
8-6-10             155.318
8-6-11             155.319
8-6-12             155.320
8-6-13             155.321
8-6-14             155.322
8-6-15             155.323
8-6-16             155.324
8-6-17             155.325
8-6-18             155.326
8-6-19             155.327
8-6-20             155.328
8-6-21             155.329
8-6-22             155.330
8-6-23             155.331
8-6-24             155.332
8-6-25             155.333
8-6-26             155.334
8-6-27             155.335
8-6-28             155.336
8-6-29             155.337
8-6-30             155.338
8-6-31             155.339
8-6-32             155.340
8-6-33             155.341
8-6-34             155.342
8-6-35             155.343
8-6-36             155.344
8-6-37             155.345
8-6-38             155.346
8-6-39             155.347
8-6-40             155.348
8-6-41             155.349
8-6-42             155.350
8-6-43             155.351
8-6-44A            155.352
8-6-44B            155.352
8-6-44C            155.352
8-6-44D            155.352
8-6-44E            155.352
8-6-44F            155.352
8-6-44G            155.352
8-6-44H            155.352
8-6-44I            155.352
8-6-44J            155.352
8-6-44K            155.352
8-6-44L            155.352
8-6-44M            155.352
8-6-44N            155.352
8-6-44O            155.352
8-6-45             155.353
8-7-1              155.365
8-7-2              155.365
8-7-3              155.365
8-7-4              155.365
8-7-5              155.365
8-8-1              155.366
8-8-2              155.366
8-8-3              155.366
8-8-4              155.366
8-8-5              155.366
8-8-6              155.366
8-8-7              155.366
8-8-8              155.366
8-9-1              155.367
8-9-2              155.367
8-9-3              155.367
8-9-4              155.367
8-9-5              155.367
8-9-6              155.367
8-9-7              155.367
8-9-8              155.367
8-10-1             155.368
8-10-2             155.368
8-10-3             155.368
8-10-4             155.368
8-10-5             155.368
8-10-6             155.368
8-10-7             155.368
8-10-8             155.368
8-10-9             155.368
8-10-10            155.368
8-10-11            155.368
8-11-1             155.369
8-11-2             155.369
8-11-3             155.369
8-11-4             155.369
8-11-5             155.369
8-11-6             155.369
8-11-7             155.369
8-12-1             155.385
8-12-2             155.386
8-12-3             155.387
8-12-4             155.388
8-12-5             155.389
8-12-6             155.390
8-12-7             155.391
8-12-8             155.392
8-12-9             155.393
8-12-10            155.394
8-12-11            155.395
8-12-13            155.999
8-12-13            155.396
8-12-14            155.397
8-12-15            155.398
8-12-16            155.399
8-12-17            155.400
8-12-18            155.401
8-12-19            155.402
8-12-20            155.403
8-12-21            155.404
8-12-22            155.405
8-12-23            155.406
8-12-24            155.407
8-12-25            155.408
8-12-26            155.409
8-12-27            155.410
8-12-28            155.411
8-12-29            155.412
8-12-30            155.413
8-12-31            155.414
8-12-32            155.415
8-12-33            155.416
8-12-34            155.417
8-12-35            155.418
8-12-36            155.419
8-12-37            155.420
8-12-38            155.421
8-12-39            155.422
8-12-40            155.423
8-12-41            155.424
8-12-42            155.425
8-12-43            155.426
8-12-44            155.427
8-12-45            155.428
8-12-46            155.429
8-12-47            155.430
8-12-48            155.431
8-12-49            155.432
8-12-50            155.433
8-12-51            155.434
8-12-52            155.435
8-12-53            155.436
8-12-54            155.437
8-12-55            155.438
8-12-56            155.439
8-12-57            155.440
8-12-58            155.441
8-12-59            155.442
8-12-60            155.443
8-12-61            155.444
8-12-62            155.445
8-12-63            155.446
8-12-64            155.447
8-12-65            155.448
8-12-66            155.449
8-12-67            155.450
8-13B-1            155.465
8-13B-2            155.465
8-13B-3            155.465
8-13B-4            155.465
8-13B-5            155.465
8-13B-6            155.465
8-13B-7            155.465
8-13B-8            155.465
8-13B-9            155.465
8-13B-10           155.465
8-13B-11           155.465
8-13B-12           155.465
8-13C-1            155.466
8-13C-2            155.466
8-13C-3            155.466
8-13C-4            155.466
8-13C-5            155.466
8-13C-6            155.466
8-13C-7            155.466
8-13C-8            155.466
8-13C-9            155.466
8-13C-10           155.466
8-13C-11           155.466
8-13C-12           155.466
8-14-1             155.370
8-15-1             155.371
8-15-2             155.371
8-15-3             155.371
8-15-4             155.371
8-17-1             155.372
8-18-1             155.480
8-18-2             155.481
8-18-3             155.482
8-18-4             155.483
8-18-5             155.484
8-18-6             155.485
8-18-7             155.486
8-18-8             155.487
8-18-9             155.488
8-18-10            155.489
8-18-11            155.490
8-18-12            155.491
8-18-13            155.492
8-18-14            155.493
8-18-15            155.494
8-18-16            155.495
8-18-17            155.496
8-18-18            155.497
8-18-19            155.498
8-18-20            155.499
8-18-21            155.500
8-19-1             155.500
8-19-2             155.500
8-19-3             155.500
8-19-4             155.500
8-19-5             155.500
8-19-6             155.500
8-19-7             155.500
8-19-8             155.500
8-19-9             155.500
8-19-10            155.500
8-19-11            155.500
8-19-12            155.500
8-19-13            155.500
8-19-14            155.500
8-19-15            155.500
8-19-16            155.515
8-20-1             155.516
8-20-2             155.516
8-20-3             155.516
8-20-4             155.516
8-21-1             155.530
8-21-2             155.531
8-21-3             155.532
8-21-4             155.533
8-21-5             155.534
8-21-6             155.535
8-21-7             155.536
8-21-8             155.537
8-21-9             155.538
8-21-10            155.539
8-21-11            155.540
8-21-12            155.541
9-1-1              153.01
9-1-2              153.02
9-1-3              153.04
9-1-4              153.03
9-2-1              153.05
9-3-1              153.06
9-3-2              153.07
9-3-3              153.08
9-3-4              153.09
9-3-5              153.10
9-3-6              153.11
9-3-7              153.12
9-4-1              153.25
9-4-2              153.25
9-4-3              153.26
9-4-4              153.27
9-5-1              153.40
9-5-2              153.41
9-5-3              153.42
9-5-4              153.43
9-5-5              153.44
10-1-1             154.015
10-1-2             154.016
10-1-3             154.017
10-2-1             154.030
10-2-2             154.031
10-2-3             154.032
10-2-4             154.033
10-2-5             154.034
10-2-6             154.035
10-2-7             154.036
10-2-8             154.037
10-3-1             154.050
10-3-2             154.051
10-3-3             154.052
10-3-4             154.053
10-3-5             154.054
10-3-6             154.055
10-3-7             154.056
10-3-8             154.057
10-3-9             154.058
10-3-10            154.059
10-3-11            154.060
10-3-12            154.061
10-3-13            154.062
10-3-14            154.063
10-4-1             154.075
10-4-2             154.076
10-4-3             154.077
10-4-4             154.078
10-4-5             154.079
10-4-6             154.080
10-4-7             154.081
10-4-8             154.082
10-4-9             154.083
10-4-10            154.084
10-4-11            154.085
10-5-1             154.100
10-5-2             154.101
10-6-1             154.115
10-6-2             154.116
10-6-3             154.117
10-6-4             154.118
10-6-5             154.119
10-7-1             154.130
10-7-2             154.131
10-7-3             154.132
10-7-4             154.133
10-8-1             154.145
10-8-2             154.146
10-8-3             154.147
10-9-1             154.003
10-10-1            154.160
10-10-2            154.161
10-10-3            154.162
10-11-1            154.175
10-11-2            154.176
10-11-3            154.177
10-11-4            154.178
10-11-5            154.179
10-11-6            154.180
10-12-1            154.002
10-12-2            154.999
10-12-3            154.002
10-12-4            154.002
10-12-5            154.002
10-13-1            154.001
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed  Code Section
-        6-4-1984       33.070 -
                        33.073
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     112.01 -
47       5 6-1968    112.07,
                     112.99
                     151.20 -
50       7-6-1970    151.28,
                     151.99
                     93.01 -
55       5-18-1971   93.09,
                     93.99
                     90.01 -
60       7-3-1972    90.04,
                     90.99
                     111.01,
                     111.02,
71       11-15-1977  111.04,
                     111.05,
                     111.99
74       1-5-1978    32.01
88       9-18-1984   70.02
104      3-2-1987    50.01
                     35.25 -
127      1-16-1990   35.28,
                     35.99
130      12-27-1990  32.02,
                     32.99
131      6-4-1991    34.01 -
                     34.06
134      3-9-1992    151.01
136      6-9-1992    150.27,
                     150.99
                     70.15,
144      2-15-1994   70.16,
                     70.18
154      1-9-1996    70.01,
                     130.01
                     92.001,
                     92.002,
                     92.004 -
                     92.006,
155      1-9-1996    92.047 -
                     92.050,
                     92.052,
                     92.070,
                     92.073,
                     92.999
181      6-4-1997    91.02
183      9-3-1997    35.40 -
                     35.47
                     70.21,
184      5-6-1998    70.22,
                     70.99
                     91.35 -
185      5-6-1998    91.39,
                     91.99
                     91.15 -
191      10-19-1999  91.20,
                     91.99
194a     1-4-2000    92.002
00-04    6-20-2000   111.03,
                     111.99
00-06    7-5-2000    92.071
00-05A   7-18-2000   150.25,
                     150.99
00-07    8-15-2000   150.26,
                     150.99
00-11    9-9-2000    130.02,
                     130.99
02-01    4-2-2002    151.03
184A     12-17-2002  70.23
03-01    1-21-2003   35.60 -
                     35.66
03-05    3-18-2003   37.01 -
                     37.05
03-08    5-20-2003   34.20 -
                     34.25
03-18    12-16-2003  151.04
04-06    4-6-2004    33.015 -
                     33.021
04-08    5-18-2004   31.01
06-01    2-7-2006    150.40
06-10    6-6-2006    91.01
06-11    6-6-2006    92.007
07-10    6-19-2007   33.050 -
                     33.055
05-05    9-18-2007   34.40
179      6-17-2008   36.01 -
                     36.08
08-05    8-19-2008   33.001
09-06    11-17-2009  91.03,
                     91.99
09-05    1-5-2010    93.20 -
                     93.26
                     153.01 -
                     153.12,
10-08    3-2-2010    153.25 -
                     153.27,
                     153.40 -
                     153.44
08-01    4-20-2010   33.035 -
                     33.039
                     155.061 -
                     155.064,
                     155.170 -
10-02    6-1-2010    155.174,
                     155.220 -
                     155.227,
                     155.229 -
                     155.236
10-10    6-15-2010   151.05,
                     151.99
                     155.082,
                     155.089,
10-11    6-15-2010   155.107,
                     155.115,
                     155.366
10-13    7-20-2010   155.089,
                     155.115
                     152.01 -
10-15    10-19-2010  152.04,
                     152.99
                     155.008,
                     155.032,
                     155.045 -
                     155.048,
                     155.082,
                     155.107,
                     155.310,
                     155.325,
                     155.335,
                     155.346,
                     155.366,
                     155.385 -
                     155.392,
                     155.394 -
10-16    12-14-2010  155.413,
                     155.415 -
                     155.419,
                     155.421 -
                     155.423,
                     155.425 -
                     155.427,
                     155.429 -
                     155.435,
                     155.438,
                     155.439,
                     155.442 -
                     155.447,
                     155.449,
                     155.450,
                     155.999
                     155.008,
                     155.028,
10-17    12-14-2010  155.082,
                     155.107,
                     155.341,
                     155.366
11-02    2-15-2011   151.02
                     155.008,
                     155.030,
                     155.048,
11-03    3-1-2011    155.339,
                     155.340,
                     155.366,
                     155.368
                     155.008,
11-10    6-21-2011   155.082,
                     155.344
                     155.008,
11-11    9-20-2011   155.082,
                     155.107,
                     155.324
                     154.001 -
                     154.003,
                     154.015 -
                     154.017,
                     154.030 -
                     154.037,
                     154.050 -
                     154.063,
                     154.075 -
                     154.085,
                     154.100,
10-09    10-4-2011   154.101,
                     154.115 -
                     154.119,
                     154.130 -
                     154.133,
                     154.145 -
                     154.147,
                     154.160 -
                     154.162,
                     154.175 -
                     154.180,
                     154.999
                     150.01 -
11-12    10-4-2011   150.10,
                     150.99
                     92.003,
11-13    10-18-2011  92.020 -
                     92.033
                     155.008,
                     155.082,
                     155.083,
11-15    11-1-2011   155.085 -
                     155.087,
                     155.107,
                     155.109 -
                     155.114
                     155.008,
                     155.026,
11-16    12-6-2011   155.045,
                     155.334,
                     155.427,
                     155.429
11-17    12-6-2011   155.251
11-18    12-6-2011   155.466
                     155.008,
                     155.082,
12-01    3-6-2012    155.107,
                     155.323,
                     155.347
12-02    5-1-2012    155.008,
                     155.427
                     155.031,
12-04    5-1-2012    155.032,
                     155.048,
                     155.366
12-05    6-5-2012    155.343,
                     155.345
12-06    6-19-2012   155.427
12-08    8-21-2012   151.05
                     155.008,
                     155.407,
12-09    9-18-2012   155.414,
                     155.427,
                     155.428
12-12    12-4-2012   155.326,
                     155.429
12-13    12-4-2012   155.369
                     155.021 -
13-03    4-16-2013   155.023,
                     155.032
13-05    4-16-2013   155.027
13-06    7-2-2013    155.530 -
                     155.541
13-12    8-20-2013   155.365
13-14    10-15-2013  155.250,
                     155.252
14-05    7-15-2014   155.436
14-07    12-2-2014   150.41
                     155.008,
                     155.081,
14-08    12-4-2014   155.082,
                     155.106,
                     155.107,
                     155.366
                     155.008,
15-02    3-17-2015   155.081,
                     155.082,
                     155.348
                     155.082,
                     155.084,
                     155.107,
15-06    6-21-2015   155.393,
                     155.427,
                     155.437,
                     155.440,
                     155.441
16-02    3-15-2016   155.008,
                     155.427
16-03    7-5-2016    155.028
16-15    12-20-2016  31.01
17-01    2-7-2017    155.008
17-05    2-7-2017    155.426
17-06    2-7-2017    155.436
17-07    2-7-2017    155.420
17-08    2-7-2017    155.424
17-10    2-7-2017    155.032
17-11    2-7-2017    155.032
17-13    2-7-2017    155.515
17-14    2-7-2017    155.443
17-02    3-21-2017   155.065
17-17    3-21-2017   155.312
17-18    3-21-2017   155.448
17-19    3-21-2017   34.41
17-25    3-21-2017   155.349
17-21    4-4-2017    155.028
17-22    4-4-2017    155.351
17-23    4-4-2017    155.350
17-26    5-2-2017    155.402
17-27    5-2-2017    155.323
17-28    5-16-2017   151.40 -
                     151.47
17-29    5-16-2017   155.427
17-33    10-7-2017   31.01
                     110.01 -
17-35    12-5-2017   110.08,
                     110.99
                     155.060,
17-36    12-19-2017  155.131,
                     155.393
18-02    2-6-2018    151.05
18-03    2-6-2018    155.108
                     155.008,
                     155.066 -
18-04    5-15-2018   155.068,
                     155.084,
                     155.427
                     155.060,
                     155.130,
18-06    8-7-2018    155.132 -
                     155.135,
                     155.265 -
                     155.270
18-13    8-7-2018    155.285 -
                     155.296
                     155.023,
18-07    11-13-2018  155.031,
                     155.032
18-08    11-13-2018  155.082 -
                     155.329
                     155.203,
18-09    11-13-2018  155.483,
                     155.492
18-10    11-13-2018  155.427
                     155.220 -
                     155.227,
                     155.229 -
19-09    10-15-2019  155.237,
                     155.385 -
                     155.450,
                     155.999
                     155.008,
19-07    12-3-2019   155.132,
                     155.266
20-01    1-7-2020    155.352
20-02    2-18-2020   155.008,
                     155.425
20-16    4-7-2020    151.05,
                     151.99
20-03    4-21-2020   155.150 -
                     155.155
                     155.008,
                     155.082,
20-10    7-21-2020   155.107,
                     155.132,
                     155.353
                     155.008,
                     155.400,
20-11    9-1-2020    155.407,
                     155.415,
                     155.429
20-15    10-20-2020  155.200 -
                     155.207
21-01    3-2-2021    155.084 
21-06    6-1-2021    155.427
21-07    6-15-2021   155.220 -
                     155.237
21-08    7-6-2021    155.427
                     155.008,
                     155.032,
21-09    7-6-2021    155.107,
                     155.341,
                     155.448
22-01    1-4-2022    155.084,
                     155.426
22-02    1-18-2022   155.323
22-03    1-18-2022   155.420
22-04    2-1-2022    155.203
22-05    2-1-2022    155.132
22-10    5-3-2022    34.55 -
                     34.67
22-19    11-22-2022  35.43
23-01    2-7-2023    155.113
                     155.008,
23-04    4-18-2023   155.082,
                     155.107,
                     155.354
23-07    3-21-2023   155.424,
                     155.442
23-08    6-6-2023    155.427
23-09    6-20-2023   155.132,
                     155.305
23-10    8-15-2023   155.427
23-13    9-19-2023   155.452
23-14    10-3-2023   155.403
23-15    10-3-2023   155.266
23-16    11-7-2023   155.429
23-18    11-7-2023   Adopting Ordinance
                     155.008,
23-19    12-19-2023  155.455 -
                     155.464
23-21    12-19-2023  155.008,
                     155.341
24-01    1-16-2024   155.451
24-04    2-6-2024    155.312
24-05    2-20-2024   152.05
24-06    3-19-2024   155.008,
                     155.426
24-09    4-16-2024   155.429
                     155.222,
24-12    5-21-2024   155.223,
                     155.224,
                     155.236
24-13    5-21-2024   155.028
24-17    8-6-2024    155.008,
                     155.345
                    
 
