MYTON CITY, UTAH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 11122019-001 , effective 11-19-2019
 
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439
www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   ALTERNATIVE HEARING AND ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Alterations
   
10.05   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.06   Public ways and public utility ordinances
   
10.07   Court proceedings
   
10.08   Severability clause
   
10.09   Construction of words
   
10.10   General definitions
   
10.11   Catchlines
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   Upon the adoption by the City Council, this code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Myton City. This code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the Myton City Code and is hereby
published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in §
10.03. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any
legal documents.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.05.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.04 ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the City Council. The City Recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the City
Recorder. Any person having custody of a copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of
the City Recorder. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and
shall be returned to the office of the City Recorder when directed so to do by
order of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Repealer; exceptions. All general ordinances of the city passed prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances.
   (B)   Effect of repealing ordinances. The repeal of the ordinances provided
in division (A) above shall not affect any debt or fee which is accrued, any
duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding commenced
under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office of any
person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor shall the
repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance heretofore
repealed or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.06 PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to streets and other public ways, or relating to the
conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall be repealed by
virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the preceding section,
excepting as this code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case,
this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in
respect to such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.07 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Prior acts. No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   Scope of section. This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Actions now pending. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 10.08 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any section, division, sentence or phrase of this code or any part
thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part
thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each
section, division, sentence or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more section, division, sentence or phrase be declared unconstitutional,
invalid or ineffective.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
§ 10.09 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   (A)   Liberal construction. All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and City Council may be fully carried
out.
   (B)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
of a code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general
provision imposed by the code, the provision imposing the greater restriction
or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   (C)   Additional interpretations.
      (1)   Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or
an act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be
had, the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be
counted in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be
held shall be counted.
      (2)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      (3)   Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      (4)   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      (5)   May/shall. The word “may” is permissive; the word “shall” is
mandatory.
      (6)   Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      (7)   Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      (8)   Officers generally. Whenever any officer is referred by title, such
as “Recorder”, “Treasurer”, “Chief of Police” and the like, such reference
shall be construed as if followed by the words “of Myton City”.
      (9)   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future
as well as the past and present.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.10 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A SIGNIFICANT PARCEL OF REAL PROPERTY. Any piece of real property that the
city owns.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CITY CODE or CODE. The City Code of Myton City, Utah.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Myton City, Utah.
   COUNTY. Duchesne County, State of Utah.
   FEE. A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to city regulation,
authorization or limitation.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON. Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
   REASONABLE NOTICE OF PROPOSED DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY. Notice given by
the city of a period not less than 14 days prior to any public meeting held to
take public comment regarding discussion of disposing of said property. The
notice shall be posted in the same places that all notices of City Council
agendas are posted according to the Utah State Code - both physically and
electronically. The notice shall include the legal description of the property,
the tax identification number of the property, and the date and time of the
public meeting to receive public comment regarding the disposition of the real
property.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE. The State of Utah.
   STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
paths, public squares, public places and sidewalks.
   SURPLUS PROPERTY. Any property of the city that the city finds is surplus
and is no longer in need of for the city’s operations.
   TENANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER. The terms “wholesaler” and “wholesale dealer” as used in this
code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person’s proper mark.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2) (Ord. 042315-001, passed 4-23-2015)
§ 10.11 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Penalty for violation of this code of ordinances.
         (a)   Specified. Any person violating any of the provisions or failing
to comply with any of the mandatory requirements of this code of ordinances of
the city shall be guilty of an infraction, unless the violation is made a
misdemeanor by ordinance.
         (b)   Authority. The city legislative body may enforce obedience to
ordinances by punishment, not to exceed the maximum fine for a class B
misdemeanor under UCA § 76-3-301, imprisonment, or by both fine and
imprisonment.
      (2)   Term of imprisonment for misdemeanors. A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as provided by the
then extant provisions of the Utah State Code governing misdemeanors.
      (3)   Infractions.
         (a)   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but
may be subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
         (b)   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no
punishment is specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
      (4)   Fines of persons. A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine as provided by
the then extant provisions of the Utah State Code governing misdemeanors.
      (5)   Fines of corporations. The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed
upon a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality
for an offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the city, or for an
offense defined outside of this code over which this city has jurisdiction, for
which no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed
by the court, not exceeding:
         (a)   Class B misdemeanor. Five thousand dollars when the conviction
is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
         (b)   Class C misdemeanor/infraction. One thousand dollars when the
conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an infraction
conviction.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Liability of employers and agents. When the provisions of the code of
ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited thing or omitting the direct act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned, or aiding or abetting therein, shall
be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty prescribed for the
offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
(Ord. 020912-02, passed 2-9-2012)
CHAPTER 11: ALTERNATIVE HEARING AND ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
Section
General Provisions and Definitions
   
11.01   Short title
   
11.02   Declaration of purpose
   
11.03   Scope
   
11.04   Existing law continued
   
11.05   Criminal prosecution right
   
11.06   Effect of heading
   
11.07   Validity of title; severability
   
11.08   No mandatory duty; civil liability
   
11.09   General rules of interpretation
   
11.10   Definitions
   
11.11   Acts include causing, aiding and abetting
   
11.12   Service requirements
   
11.13   General authority and offenses
Administrative Code Enforcement Procedures
   
11.25   General provisions
   
11.26   Emergency abatement
   
11.27   Demolitions
   
11.28   Administrative citations
   
11.29   Hearing procedures
   
11.30   Administrative enforcement appeals
Administrative and Judicial Remedies
   
11.45   Recordation of notices of violation
   
11.46   Administrative civil penalties
   
11.47   Abatement of violation
   
11.48   Costs
   
11.49   Administrative fees
   
11.50   Injunctions
   
11.51   Performance bonds
Recovery of Code Enforcement Penalties and Costs
   
11.65   Code enforcement tax liens
   
11.66   Writ of execution
   
11.67   Writ of garnishment
   
11.68   Allocation of funds collected
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
§ 11.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Alternative Hearing and Enforcement
Program (AHAEP)”. This chapter shall also be known as Title I,
Chapter 11 of this code. It may be cited and pled under either designation.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-1)
§ 11.02 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that the enforcement of this code, and applicable
state codes, throughout the city is an important public service. Code
enforcement is vital to the protection of the public health, safety and quality
of life. The City Council further finds that a comprehensive code enforcement
system that uses a combination of judicial and administrative remedies is
critical to gain compliance with these regulations. Failure to comply with an
administrative code enforcement action may require the City Attorney to file a
judicial action to gain compliance.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-2)
§ 11.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter may be applied to all violations of this
code. It has been designed as an additional remedy for the city to use in
achieving compliance of its ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-3)
§ 11.04 EXISTING LAW CONTINUED.
   The provisions of this chapter do not invalidate any other title or
ordinance, but shall be read in conjunction with those titles and ordinances as
an additional remedy available for enforcement of those ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-4)
§ 11.05 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT.
   The city has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal
case for the violation of any of its ordinances. The city may choose to file
both, or one or the other. The enactment of this administrative remedy shall in
no way interfere with the city’s right to prosecute city ordinance violations
as criminal offenses as set out throughout this code and, in particular, §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. The city may use any of the remedies
available under the law in both civil and criminal prosecution. If the city
chooses to file both civil and criminal charges for the same day of violation,
no civil penalties may be assessed, but all other remedies are available.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-5)
§ 11.06 EFFECT OF HEADING.
   Title, chapter, subchapter and section headings contained herein shall not
be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning
or intent of the provisions of any title, chapter, subchapter or section
hereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-6)
§ 11.07 VALIDITY OF TITLE; SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase, portion or provision of
this chapter is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this chapter and each section, division,
sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, divisions, clauses, phrases, portions or
provisions be declared invalid or unconstitutional. This section shall apply to
all amendments heretofore or hereafter made to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-7)
§ 11.08 NO MANDATORY DUTY; CIVIL LIABILITY.
   It is the intent of the City Council that in establishing performance
standards or establishing an obligation to act by a city officer or employee,
these standards shall not be construed as creating a mandatory duty for
purposes of tort liability if the officer or employee fails to perform his or
her directed duty or duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-8)
§ 11.09 GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   For purposes of this chapter:
   (A)   Any gender includes the other gender;
   (B)   “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive;
   (C)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular;
   (D)   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense, and
vice versa; and
   (E)   Words and phrases used in this chapter and not specifically defined
shall be construed according to the context and approved usage of the language.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-9)
§ 11.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. Any action the city may take on public or private property, and
any adjacent property as may be necessary to remove or alleviate a violation,
including, but not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding and
securing or replacement of property.
   ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER. An order issued by a Hearing Officer.
The order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil penalties and
administrative costs, or take any other action as authorized or required by
this chapter and applicable state codes.
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER. The Administrative Hearing Officer appointed
to preside over the administrative hearings contemplated and established by
this chapter. Where the City Council deems it advisable, such Officer may also
serve as the Administrative Hearing Officer for land use matters under other
provisions of this code.
   CITY. The area within the territorial city limits of Myton City, and such
territory outside of this city over which the city has jurisdiction or control
by virtue of any constitutional or incorporation provisions, or any law.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Myton City.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT LIEN. A lien recorded to collect outstanding civil
penalties, administrative fees and costs.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT PERFORMANCE BOND. A bond posted by a responsible person to
ensure compliance with this code, applicable state titles, a judicial action or
an administrative code enforcement order.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. Any person authorized to enforce violations of this
code or applicable state codes.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of
trust on a property.
   GOOD CAUSE. Incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice;
unavailability due to unavoidable, unpreventable or extenuating emergency or
circumstance; if a required act causes an imminent and irreparable injury; and
acts of nature adverse to performing required acts.
   IMMINENT LIFE SAFETY HAZARD. Any condition that creates a present, extreme
and immediate danger to life, property, health or public safety.
   LEGAL INTEREST. Any interest that is represented by a document, such as a
deed of trust, quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien,
mechanic’s lien or other similar instrument that is recorded with the County
Recorder.
   NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE. A document issued by the city, representing that a
property complies with the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.
   NOTICE OF SATISFACTION. A document or form approved by the Administrative
Hearing Officer, or his or her designee, which indicates that all outstanding
civil penalties and costs have been either paid in full, or that the city has
negotiated an agreed amount, or that a subsequent administrative or judicial
decision has resolved the outstanding debt. In addition to the satisfaction of
the financial debt, the property must also be in compliance with the
requirements outlined in the notice of violation.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A written notice prepared by an enforcement official
that informs a responsible person of code violations and orders them to take
certain steps to correct the violations.
   OATH. Includes affirmations and oaths.
   ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATOR. The individual or individuals appointed
under §
153.007(A) of this code of ordinances, or any other individual duly appointed
by the Mayor for purposes of enforcing the ordinances of Myton City.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, sergeant, officer or employee of
any of them, or any other entity that is recognized by law as the subject of
rights or duties.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The record owner of real property based on the County
Assessor’s records.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any condition caused, maintained or permitted to exist that
constitutes a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, or that
significantly obstructs, injures or interferes with the reasonable or free use
of property in a neighborhood or community, or by any considerable number of
persons. A PUBLIC NUISANCE also has the same meaning as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. A person who is responsible for causing or maintaining a
violation of this code or applicable state codes. The property owner, tenant,
person with a legal interest in the real property, or person in possession of
the real property, shall be liable for any violation maintained on the
property. In all cases, the property owner shall be considered a RESPONSIBLE
PERSON.
   WRITTEN. Includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed or
facsimile.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-10)
§ 11.11 ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING AND ABETTING.
   Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this code, it shall include
causing, permitting, aiding or abetting such act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-11)
§ 11.12 SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Service of process.
      (1)   Whenever service is required to be given under this code for
enforcement purposes, the document shall be served by any of the following
methods, unless different provisions are otherwise specifically stated to
apply:
         (a)   Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the
owner or other responsible person;
         (b)   Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property.
If not inhabited, the notice must also be mailed as provided in division (A)(1)
(a) above. The form of the posted notice shall be approved by the enforcement
official or his or her designee; and
         (c)   Published in a newspaper of general circulation where the
identity or whereabouts of the person to be served are unknown and cannot be
ascertained through reasonable diligence, where service is impracticable under
the circumstances, or where there exists good cause to believe that the person
to be served is avoiding service of process.
      (2)   Service by regular mail in the manner described above shall be
deemed served on the third day after the date of mailing.
      (3)   If service complies with the requirements of this section, it shall
be deemed a valid service even if a party claims not to have received the
service, and it shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken under
this code.
      (4)   The failure to serve all responsible persons shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings.
   (B)   Constructive notice of recorded documents. Whenever a document is
recorded with the County Recorder as authorized or required by this code, or
applicable state codes, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the
information contained in the recorded documents.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-12)
§ 11.13 GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES.
   (A)   General enforcement authority. Whenever the enforcement official finds
that a violation of this code or applicable state codes has occurred or
continues to exist, the appropriate administrative enforcement procedure may be
used as outlined in this chapter. The enforcement official, or any designee,
has the authority and power necessary to gain compliance with the provisions of
this code and applicable state codes. These powers include the power to issue
notices of violation and administrative citations, inspect public and private
property, abate public and private property, and use whatever judicial and
administrative remedies are available under this code or applicable state
codes.
   (B)   Adoption of policy and procedures. The Administrative Hearing Officer
is authorized to develop policies and procedures relating to the hearing
procedures, scope of hearings, subpoena powers and other matters relating to
the alternative hearing and enforcement program.
   (C)   Authority to inspect. The ordinance enforcement official (herein
sometimes referred to as the “administrator” or “ordinance enforcement
administrator”), or any designated enforcement official, is authorized to enter
upon any property or premises to ascertain whether the provisions of this code
or applicable state codes are being obeyed, and to make any examinations and
surveys as may be necessary in the performance of the enforcement duties. This
may include the taking of photographs, samples or other physical evidence. All
inspections, entries, examinations and surveys shall be done in a reasonable
manner based upon cause. If the responsible person refuses to allow the
enforcement official to enter the property, the enforcement official shall
obtain a search warrant.
   (D)   Power to arrest. The ordinance enforcement administrator, or any
designated enforcement official, is authorized to arrest, without a warrant,
any person whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the person has
committed a violation of this code or applicable state codes in the enforcement
official’s presence. The administrator or enforcement official can arrest a
person only by issuing a misdemeanor citation or administrative citation.
   (E)   False information or refusal prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to willfully make a false statement or refuse to give his or her name or
address with intent to deceive or interfere with a city employee when in the
performance of his or her official duties under the provisions of this code. A
violation of this division (E) is a class B misdemeanor.
   (F)   Failure to obey subpoena. It is unlawful for any person to refuse or
fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative code enforcement hearing.
Failure to obey a subpoena constitutes contempt and may be prosecuted as a
class B misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-1-13)
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 11.25 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Authority. Any condition caused, maintained or permitted to exist in
violation of any provisions of this code or applicable state codes that
constitutes a violation may be abated by the city pursuant to the procedures
set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the ordinance enforcement administrator, or any designated
enforcement official, determines that a violation of this code or applicable
state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the administrator or
enforcement official may choose to proceed under the administrative abatement
procedures. If this procedure is used, a notice of violation shall be issued to
a responsible person. The notice of violation shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Name of property owner;
         (b)   Street address of violation;
         (c)   Date violation observed;
         (d)   All code sections violated and description of condition of the
property that violates the applicable codes;
         (e)   A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to
permanently correct outstanding violations, which may include corrections,
repairs, demolition, removal or other appropriate action;
         (f)   Specific date to correct the violations listed in the notice of
violation, which date shall be at least ten days from the date of service;
         (g)   Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person
fail to comply with the terms and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of
violation, which may include, but is not limited to, criminal prosecution;
civil penalties; revocation of permits; recordation of the notice of violation;
withholding of future municipal permits; abatement of the violation; costs;
administrative fees; and any other legal remedies;
         (h)   That civil penalties will begin to accrue immediately upon
expiration of the date to correct violations;
         (i)   The amount of the civil penalty on each violation, and that the
penalty will accrue daily until the property is brought into compliance;
         (j)   That only one notice of violation is required for any 12-month
period, and that civil penalties begin immediately upon any subsequent
violations of the notice. The responsible person may request a hearing on the
renewed violations by following the same procedure as provided for the original
notice; and
         (k)   Procedures to request a hearing as provided in §
11.29(C), and consequences for failure to request one.
      (2)   The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of
service listed in §
11.12(A).
      (3)   More than one notice of violation may be issued against the same
responsible person, if it encompasses different dates, or different violations.
   (C)   Failure to bring property into compliance.
      (1)   If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance
within ten days of service of the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be
owed to the city for each and every subsequent day of violation.
      (2)   Failure to comply with the notice of violation is a class B
misdemeanor.
   (D)   Inspections. It shall be the duty of the responsible person served
with a notice of violation to request an inspection when his or her property
has been brought into compliance. It is prima facie evidence that the violation
remains on the property if no inspection is requested. Civil penalties
accumulate daily until the property has been inspected and a notice of
compliance is issued. Reinspection fees shall be assessed if more than one
inspection is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-2-1)
§ 11.26 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   Whenever the ordinance enforcement administrator determines that an
imminent life safety hazard exists that requires immediate correction or
elimination, the administrator may exercise the following powers without prior
notice to the responsible person:
         (a)   Order the immediate vacation of any tenants, and prohibit
occupancy until all repairs are completed;
         (b)   Post the premises as unsafe, substandard or dangerous;
         (c)   Board, fence or secure the building or site;
         (d)   Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent
further collapse, and remove any hazard to the general public;
         (e)   Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any
imminent life safety hazard; or
         (f)   Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.
      (2)   The ordinance enforcement administrator has the authority, based on
cause, to enter the property without a search warrant or court order to
accomplish the above listed acts to abate the safety hazard.
      (3)   The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated
with the abatement of the life safety hazard. Costs may be recovered pursuant
to this chapter.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   The enforcement official shall pursue only the minimum level of
correction or abatement as necessary to eliminate the immediacy of the hazard.
Costs incurred by the city during the emergency abatement process shall be
assessed and recovered against the responsible person through the procedures
outlined in §§
11.45 through
11.51.
      (2)   The enforcement official may also pursue any other administrative
or judicial remedy to abate any remaining violations.
   (C)   Notice of emergency abatement. After an emergency abatement, the city
shall notify the owner or responsible person of the abatement action taken.
This notice shall be served within ten days of completion of the abatement.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-2-2)
§ 11.27 DEMOLITIONS.
   (A)   Authority. Whenever the ordinance enforcement administrator, chief
building officer or fire inspector determines that a property or building
requires demolition, any one of them may demolish or remove the offending
structure, or exercise any or all of the powers listed in §
11.26(A) once appropriate notice has been given to a responsible person
pursuant to the uniform abatement of dangerous buildings code or fire codes as
required under state law. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs
associated with the demolition. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   Procedures. Once the enforcement official has determined that the city
chief building inspector or the fire inspector has complied with all of the
notice requirements of the applicable laws, the property will be abated
pursuant to the abatement remedy. Other applicable remedies may also be
pursued.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-2-3)
§ 11.28 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS.
   (A)   Declaration of purpose.
      (1)   The City Council finds that there is a need for an alternative
method of enforcement for minor violations of this code and applicable state
codes. The City Council further finds that an appropriate method of enforcement
is an administrative citation program.
      (2)   The procedures established in this section shall be in addition to
criminal, civil or any other legal remedy established by law that may be
pursued to address violations of this code or applicable state codes.
   (B)   Authority.
      (1)   Any person violating any minor provision of this code or applicable
state codes may be issued an administrative citation by an enforcement official
as provided in this section.
      (2)   A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative
citation issued by the enforcement official, and shall be payable directly to
the City Treasurer’s office.
      (3)   Penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be
collected in accordance with the procedures specified in §§
11.45 through
11.51.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Upon discovering any violation of this code or applicable state
codes, an enforcement official may issue an administrative citation to a
responsible person in the manner prescribed in this section or as prescribed in
§
11.12(A). The administrative citation shall be issued on a form approved by the
Administrative Hearing Officer.
      (2)   If the responsible person is a business, the enforcement official
shall attempt to locate the business owner and issue an administrative citation
to the business owner. If the enforcement official can only locate the manager
of the business, the administrative citation may be given to the manager of the
business. A copy of the administrative citation may also be mailed to the
business owner or any other responsible person, including, but not limited to,
the registered agent, if known, in the manner prescribed in §
11.12(A).
      (3)   Once the responsible person has been located, the enforcement
official shall attempt to obtain the signature of that person on the
administrative citation. If the responsible person refuses or fails to sign the
administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the
validity of the citation and subsequent proceedings.
      (4)   If the enforcement official is unable to locate the responsible
person for the violation, then the administrative citation shall be mailed to
the responsible person in the manner prescribed in §
11.12(A).
      (5)   If no one can be located at the property, then the administrative
citation may be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the property and a
copy subsequently mailed to the responsible person in the manner prescribed by
§
11.12(A).
      (6)   The administrative citation shall also contain the signature of the
enforcement official.
      (7)   The failure of any person with an interest in the property to
receive notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken under
this section.
   (D)   Contents of administrative citation.
      (1)   The administrative citation shall refer to the date and location of
the violations and the approximate time the violations were observed.
      (2)   The administrative citation shall refer to the code sections
violated and the titles of those sections.
      (3)   The administrative citation shall state the amount of penalty
imposed for the violations.
      (4)   The administrative citation shall explain how the penalty shall be
paid, the time period by which the penalty shall be paid, and the consequences
of failure to pay the penalty.
      (5)   The administrative citation shall identify the right and the
procedures to request a hearing.
      (6)   The citation shall contain the signature of the enforcement
official and the signature of the responsible person, if he or she can be
located, as outlined in division (C) above.
   (E)   Civil penalties assessed.
      (1)   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall establish policies to
assist in the assessment of civil penalties for administrative citations.
      (2)   Civil penalties shall be assessed immediately for each violation
listed on the administrative citation. The penalties shall be those established
in the consolidated fee schedule of the city.
      (3)   Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the
violations, nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-2-4)
§ 11.29 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Declaration of purpose. The City Council finds that there is a need to
establish uniform procedures for administrative code enforcement hearings
conducted pursuant to this code. It is the purpose and intent of the City
Council to afford due process of law to any person who is directly affected by
an administrative action. Due process of law includes notice, an opportunity to
participate in the administrative hearing, and an explanation of the reasons
justifying the administrative action. These procedures are also intended to
establish a forum to efficiently, expeditiously and fairly resolve issues
raised in any administrative code enforcement action.
   (B)   Authority and scope of hearings.
      (1)   Enforcement of city code violations may be conducted through the
alternative hearing and enforcement program (AHAEP), presided over by the
Administrative Hearing Officer.
      (2)   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall develop policies and
procedures to regulate the hearing process for any violation of this code and
applicable state codes that are handled pursuant to the administrative
abatement procedures, the emergency abatement procedures, the demolition
procedures or the administrative citation procedures.
   (C)   Request for hearing under AHAEP.
      (1)   A person served with one of the following documents or notices has
the right to request an administrative code enforcement hearing, if the request
is filed within ten calendar days from the date of service of one of the
following notices:
         (a)   Notice of violation;
         (b)   Notice of itemized bill for costs;
         (c)   Administrative citation; or
         (d)   Notice of emergency abatement.
      (2)   The request for hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the
Administrative Hearing Officer. The request shall contain the case number, the
address of the violation and the signature of the responsible party.
      (3)   As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the
request for hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer shall schedule a date,
time and place for the hearing.
      (4)   Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver
of the right to a hearing and a waiver of the right to challenge the action.
   (D)   Default hearings and orders.
      (1)   If the responsible person fails to request a hearing before the
expiration of the ten-day deadline, the case shall be set for a default
hearing. The Administrative Hearing Officer shall schedule a default hearing.
The responsible person shall be notified of the date, time and place of the
hearing by one of the methods listed in § §
11.12(A).
      (2)   A default hearing shall be scheduled for all cases that have
outstanding or unpaid civil penalties, fines, fees and/or costs due to the city
before collection, if a hearing on that case has not already been held.
      (3)   At the default hearing, the responsible person shall have the
opportunity to present evidence to show that “good cause” exists, as defined in
§
11.10, to do one or more of the following:
         (a)   Waive or reduce the fines which have accumulated;
         (b)   Postpone an abatement action by the city; or
         (c)   Excuse the responsible person’s failure to request a hearing
within the ten-day period.
      (4)   (a)   If the responsible person fails to establish good cause to
take one or more of the actions set forth in division (D)(3) above, the
Administrative Hearing Officer shall review the notice of violation and any
other relevant information included in the case file. The Administrative
Hearing Officer shall not accept any other evidence.
         (b)   If the evidence shows that the violations existed, the
Administrative Hearing Officer shall enter an order requiring abatement of the
violations, and the payment of all fines and fees.
         (c)   Fines shall run until the city issues a notice of compliance
stating when the violations were actually abated.
   (E)   Notification of hearing under AHAEP.
      (1)   Written notice of the day, time and place of the hearing shall be
served to a responsible person as soon as practicable prior to the date of the
hearing.
      (2)   The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be in
accordance with rules and policies promulgated by the Administrative Hearing
Officer.
      (3)   The notice of hearing shall be served by any of the methods of
service listed in §
11.12(A).
   (F)   Disqualification of Administrative Hearing Officer. The Administrative
Hearing Officer is subject to disqualification for bias, prejudice, interest or
any other reason for which a judge may be disqualified in a court of law. Rules
and procedures for disqualification and replacement shall be promulgated by the
Administrative Hearing Officer.
   (G)   Powers of Administrative Hearing Officer.
      (1)   The Administrative Hearing Officer has the authority to hold
hearings, determine if violations of city ordinances exist, order compliance
with city ordinances, and enforce compliance as provided in this chapter on any
matter subject to the provisions of this chapter or city code as otherwise
authorized in §
11.10.
      (2)   The Administrative Hearing Officer may continue a hearing based on
good cause shown by one of the parties to the hearing. The Administrative
Hearing Officer must enter on the record the good cause on which a continuance
is granted.
      (3)   The Administrative Hearing Officer, at the request of any party to
the hearing, may sign subpoenas for witnesses, documents and other evidence
where the attendance of the witness for the admission of evidence is deemed
necessary to decide the issues at the hearing. All costs related to the
subpoena, including witness and mileage fees, shall be borne by the party
requesting the subpoena. The Administrative Hearing Officer shall develop
policies and procedures relating to the issuance of subpoenas in administrative
code enforcement hearings, including the form of the subpoena and related
costs.
      (4)   The Administrative Hearing Officer has continuing jurisdiction over
the subject matter of an administrative code enforcement hearing for the
purposes of granting a continuance; ordering compliance by issuing an
administrative code enforcement order using any remedies available under the
law; ensuring compliance of that order, which includes the right to authorize
the city to enter and abate a violation; modifying an administrative code
enforcement order; or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new
hearing.
      (5)   The Administrative Hearing Officer has the authority to require a
responsible person to post a code enforcement performance bond to ensure
compliance with an administrative code enforcement order.
   (H)   Procedures at hearing under AHAEP.
      (1)   Administrative code enforcement hearings are intended to be
informal in nature. Formal rules of evidence and discovery do not apply;
however, an informal exchange of discovery may be required. The request must be
in writing. Failure to request discovery shall not be a basis for a
continuance. Complainant information is protected and shall not be released
unless the complainant is a witness at the hearing. The procedure and format of
the administrative hearing shall follow the procedures promulgated by the
Administrative Hearing Officer.
      (2)   The city bears the burden of proof at an administrative code
enforcement hearing to establish the existence of a violation of this code or
applicable state codes.
      (3)   The standard of proof to be used by the Administrative Hearing
Officer in deciding the issues at an administrative hearing is whether the
preponderance of the evidence shows that the violations exist.
      (4)   Each party shall have the opportunity to cross examine witnesses
and present evidence in support of his or her case. A written declaration
signed under penalty of perjury may be accepted in lieu of a personal
appearance. Testimony may be given by telephone or other electronic means.
      (5)   All hearings are open to the public. They shall be recorded by
audio tape. Hearings may be held at the location of the violation.
      (6)   The responsible person has a right to be represented by an
attorney. If an attorney will be representing the responsible person at the
hearing, notice of the attorney’s name, address and telephone number must be
given to the city at least one day prior to the hearing. If notice is not
given, the hearing may be continued at the city’s request, and all costs of the
continuance assessed to the responsible person.
      (7)   No new hearing shall be granted, unless the Administrative Hearing
Officer determines that extraordinary circumstances exist which justify a new
hearing.
   (I)   Failure to attend hearing under AHAEP. Any party whose property or
actions are the subject of any administrative code enforcement hearing and who
fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive the right to a hearing, and
will result in a default judgment for the city; provided, that proper notice of
the hearing has been provided.
   (J)   Administrative code enforcement order.
      (1)   The parties may enter into a stipulated agreement, which must be
signed by both parties. This agreement shall be entered as the administrative
code enforcement order. Entry of this agreement shall constitute a waiver of
the right to a hearing and the right to appeal.
      (2)   Once all evidence and testimony are completed, the Administrative
Hearing Officer shall issue an administrative code enforcement order that
affirms, modifies or rejects the notice or citation. The Administrative Hearing
Officer may increase or decrease the total amount of civil penalties and costs
that are due pursuant to the city fee schedule and the procedures in this
chapter.
      (3)   The Administrative Hearing Officer may order the city to enter the
property and abate all violations, which may include removing animals kept in
violation of this code.
      (4)   The Administrative Hearing Officer may revoke a kennel permit, an
animal license or the right to possess animals as provided in this code.
      (5)   As part of the administrative code enforcement order, the
Administrative Hearing Officer may condition the total or partial assessment of
civil penalties on the responsible person’s ability to complete compliance by
specified deadlines.
      (6)   The Administrative Hearing Officer may schedule subsequent review
hearings as may be necessary or as requested by a party to the hearing to
ensure compliance with the administrative code enforcement order.
      (7)   The Administrative Hearing Officer may order the responsible person
to post a performance bond to ensure compliance with the order.
      (8)   The administrative code enforcement order shall become final on the
date of the signing of the order.
      (9)   The administrative code enforcement order shall be served on all
parties by any one of the methods listed in §
11.12(A).
   (K)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   Upon the failure of the responsible person to comply with the terms
and deadlines set forth in the administrative code enforcement order, the city
may use all appropriate legal means to recover the civil penalties and
administrative costs to obtain compliance.
      (2)   After the Administrative Hearing Officer issues an administrative
code enforcement order, the Administrative Hearing Officer shall monitor the
violations and determine compliance.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-2-5)
§ 11.30 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS.
   (A)   Petition for review. Unless waived under §
11.29(J)(1), any person adversely affected by any decision made in the exercise
of the provisions of this chapter may file a petition for review of the
decision or order by the District Court within 30 days after the decision is
rendered.
   (B)   Administrative remedies exhausted. No person may challenge in District
Court a hearing decision under AHAEP until that person has exhausted his or her
administrative remedies.
   (C)   Transcripts.
      (1)   Within 120 days after submitting the petition, the party
petitioning for appeal shall request a copy of the record of the proceedings,
including transcripts of hearings when necessary. The Administrative Hearing
Officer, or his or her designee, shall not submit copies of files or
transcripts to the reviewing court until the party petitioning for appeal has
paid all required costs.
      (2)   The petitioning party’s failure to properly arrange for copies of
the record, or to pay the full costs for the record, within 180 days after the
petition for review was filed shall be grounds for dismissal of the petition.
      (3)   If a transcript of a hearing cannot be prepared because the tape
recording is incomplete or unintelligible, the District Court may, in its
discretion, remand the matter to the Administrative Hearing Officer for a
supplemental proceeding to complete the record. The district court may limit
the scope of the supplemental proceeding to issues that, in the court’s
opinion, need to be clarified.
   (D)   Limit of review. The District Court’s review is limited to the record
of the administrative decision that is being appealed. The Court shall not
accept nor consider any evidence that is not part of the record of that
decision.
   (E)   Authority of Court. The Court shall:
      (1)   Presume that the Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing Officer’s
decision and orders are valid; and
      (2)   Review the record to determine whether or not the decision was
arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-2-6)
ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES
§ 11.45 RECORDATION OF NOTICES OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Declaration of purpose.
      (1)   The City Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods
of enforcement for violations of this code and applicable state codes that are
found to exist on real property. The City Council further finds that an
appropriate method of enforcement for these types of violations is the issuance
and recordation of notices of violation.
      (2)   The procedures established in this section shall be in addition to
criminal, civil or any other remedy established by law that may be pursued to
address the violation of this code or applicable state codes.
   (B)   Authority Whenever the enforcement official determines that a property
or violation has not been brought into compliance as required in this chapter,
the enforcement official has the authority to record the notice of violation or
administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder’s office.
   (C)   Procedures for recordation.
      (1)   Once the enforcement official has issued a notice of violation to a
responsible person, and the property remains in violation after the deadline
established in the notice of violation, and no request for an administrative
hearing has been filed, the enforcement official shall record a notice of
violation with the County Recorder’s office.
      (2)   If an administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in the
city’s favor, the enforcement official shall record the administrative code
enforcement order with the County Recorder’s office.
      (3)   The recordation shall include the name of the property owner, the
parcel number, the legal description of the parcel and a copy of the notice of
violation or order.
      (4)   The recordation does not encumber the property, but merely places
future interested parties on notice of any continuing violation found upon the
property.
   (D)   Service of notice of recordation. A notice of the recordation shall be
served on the responsible person and the property owner pursuant to any of the
methods of service set forth in §
11.12(A).
   (E)   Failure to request hearing under AHAEP. The failure of any person to
file a request for a hearing under the AHAEP when served with a notice of
violation shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing
and shall not affect the validity of the recorded notice of violation.
   (F)   Notice of compliance; procedures.
      (1)   When the violations have been corrected, the responsible person or
property owner may request an inspection of the property from the ordinance
enforcement administrator.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the ordinance enforcement
administrator shall reinspect the property as soon as practicable to determine
whether the violations listed in the notice of violation or the order have been
corrected, and whether all necessary permits have been issued and final
inspections have been performed.
      (3)   The ordinance enforcement administrator shall serve a notice of
satisfaction to the responsible person or property owner in the manner provided
in §
11.12(A), if the ordinance enforcement administrator determines that:
         (a)   All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or
order have been corrected;
         (b)   All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;
         (c)   All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid
or satisfied; and
         (d)   The party requesting the notice of satisfaction has paid all
administrative fees and costs.
      (4)   If the ordinance enforcement administrator denies a request to
issue a notice of satisfaction, upon request, the ordinance enforcement
administrator shall serve the responsible person with a written explanation
setting forth the reasons for the denial. The written explanation shall be
served by any of the methods of service listed in §
11.12(A).
   (G)   City may withhold issuance of municipal permits. The city may withhold
business licenses; permits for kennels; or permits for any alteration, repair
or construction pertaining to any existing or new structures or signs on the
property; or any permits pertaining to the use and development of the real
property or the structure. The city may withhold permits until a notice of
satisfaction has been issued by the ordinance enforcement administrator. The
city may not withhold permits that are necessary to obtain a notice of
satisfaction or that are necessary to correct serious health and safety
violations.
   (H)   Cancellation of recorded notice of violation. The ordinance
enforcement administrator or responsible person shall record the notice of
satisfaction with the County Recorder’s office. Recordation of the notice of
satisfaction shall have the effect of canceling the recorded notice of
violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-3-1)
§ 11.46 ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this code or applicable state
codes may be subject to the assessment of civil penalties for each violation.
      (2)   Each and every day a violation of any provision of this code or
applicable state codes exists is a separate violation subject to the assessment
of civil penalties.
      (3)   Civil penalties cannot be assessed when a criminal case has been
filed for the same date and violation, because fines will be assessed with the
criminal case.
      (4)   Interest shall be assessed per city policy on all outstanding civil
penalties balances until the case has been paid in full. Interest shall be at
the judgment rate as set from time to time as set out in UCA § 15-1-4.
      (5)   Civil penalties for violations of any provision of this code or
applicable state codes shall be assessed pursuant to the city consolidated fee
schedule.
   (B)   Procedures for assessing civil penalties.
      (1)   If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance
within ten days of service of the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be
owed to the city for each and every subsequent day of violation.
      (2)   Civil penalties are assessed and owing immediately for any
violation of this code or applicable state codes for an administrative
citation.
   (C)   Determination of civil penalties.
      (1)   Civil penalties shall be assessed per violation per day pursuant to
the city fee schedule for a notice of violation.
      (2)   Civil penalties shall continue to accrue until the violation has
been brought into compliance with this code or applicable state codes.
   (D)   Modification of civil penalties.
      (1)   Upon completion of the notice of violation or administrative
enforcement order, the Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing Officer may
modify the civil penalties on a finding of good cause.
      (2)   Civil penalties may be waived or modified by the Hearing Officer if
there is a finding of good cause based on the responsible person’s claim of
nonconforming use or conditional use; and
         (a)   The city’s need to verify the claim; or
         (b)   The responsible person’s filing of an application for either use
before expiration of the date to correct.
   (E)   Failure to pay penalties. The failure of any person to pay civil
penalties assessed within the specified time may result in the enforcement
official pursuing any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided
by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-3-2)
§ 11.47 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Authority to abate. The enforcement official is authorized to enter
upon any property or premises to abate the violation of this code and
applicable state codes. The enforcement official is authorized to assess all
costs for the abatement to the responsible person and use any remedy available
under the law to collect the costs. If additional abatements are necessary
within two years, treble costs may be assessed against the responsible person
for the actual abatement.
   (B)   Procedures for abatement.
      (1)   Once the procedures set forth in this chapter have been completed,
the violation may be abated by city personnel or by a private contractor acting
under the direction of the city.
      (2)   City personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private
property in a reasonable manner to abate the ordinance violation as specified
in the notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order.
      (3)   If the responsible person abates the violation before the city
performs the actual abatement pursuant to a notice of violation or
administrative code enforcement order, the ordinance enforcement administrator
may still assess all costs incurred by the city against the responsible person.
      (4)   When the abatement is completed, a report describing the work
performed and an itemized account of the total abatement costs shall be
prepared by the ordinance enforcement administrator. The report shall contain
the names and addresses of the responsible persons of each parcel, and the tax
parcel number.
      (5)   The ordinance enforcement administrator shall serve the notice of
costs and the itemized bill of costs by registered mail to the last known
address of the responsible person. The notice shall demand full payment within
20 days to the City Treasurer.
      (6)   The ordinance enforcement administrator shall schedule an itemized
bill for costs of hearing, if requested in writing by any or all responsible
persons.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-3-3)
§ 11.48 COSTS.
   (A)   Declaration of purpose.
      (1)   The City Council finds that there is a need to recover costs
incurred by enforcement officials and other city personnel who spend
considerable time inspecting and reinspecting properties throughout the city in
an effort to ensure compliance with this code or applicable state codes.
      (2)   The City Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an
appropriate method to recover expenses incurred for actual costs of abating
violations, reinspection fees, filing fees, attorney fees, Hearing Officer
fees, title search and any additional actual costs incurred by the city for
each individual case.
      (3)   The assessment and collection of costs shall not preclude the
imposition of any administrative or judicial civil penalties or fines for
violations of this code or applicable state codes.
   (B)   Authority. Whenever actual costs are incurred by the city on a
property to obtain compliance with provisions of this code and applicable state
codes, the enforcement official may assess costs against the responsible
person. Once a notice of violation has been issued, the property will be
inspected one time. Any additional inspections shall be subject to reinspection
fees pursuant to the city fee schedule.
   (C)   Notification of assessment of reinspection fees.
      (1)   Notification of reinspection fees shall be provided on the notice
of violation served to the responsible person.
      (2)   Reinspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this division
(C) shall not be included in any other costs assessed.
      (3)   The failure of any responsible person to receive notice of the
reinspection fees shall not affect the validity of any other fees imposed under
this chapter.
   (D)   Failure to timely pay costs. The failure of any person to pay assessed
costs by the deadline specified in the invoice shall result in a late fee
pursuant to city policy.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-3-4)
§ 11.49 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   The ordinance enforcement administrator or Code Enforcement Hearing Officer
is authorized to assess administrative fees for costs incurred in the
administration of this program, such as investigation of violations,
preparation for hearings, hearings and the collection process. The fee assessed
shall be the amount set in the city fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-3-5)
§ 11.50 INJUNCTIONS.
   In addition to any other remedy provided under this code or state codes,
including criminal prosecution or administrative remedies, any provision of
this code may be enforced by injunction issued in the Eighth District Court
upon a suit brought by the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-3-6) (Ord. 020912-01, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 11.51 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   (A)   May be required. As part of any notice, order or action, the
Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing Officer has the authority to require
responsible persons to post a performance bond to ensure compliance with this
code, applicable state codes or any judicial action.
   (B)   Forfeit of bond. If the responsible person fails to comply with the
notice, order or action, the bond will be forfeited to the city. The bond will
not be used to offset the other outstanding costs and fees associated with the
case.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-3-7)
RECOVERY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES AND COSTS
§ 11.65 CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIENS.
   (A)   Declaration of purpose.
      (1)   The City Council finds that recordation of code enforcement tax
liens will assist in the collection of civil penalties, administrative costs
and administrative fees assessed by the alternative hearing and enforcement
program or judicial orders.
      (2)   The City Council further finds that collection of civil penalties,
costs and fees assessed for code enforcement violations is important in
deterring future violations and maintaining the integrity of the city’s code
enforcement system. The procedures established in this section shall be used to
complement existing administrative or judicial remedies that may be pursued to
address violations of this code or applicable state codes.
   (B)   Procedures for tax liens without judgment.
      (1)   Once the city has abated a property for weeds, garbage, refuse, or
unsightly or deleterious objects or structures, the ordinance enforcement
administrator shall prepare three copies of the itemized statement of costs
incurred in the removal and destruction of the violations and deliver them to
the City Treasurer within ten days after completion of the work of removing the
violations.
      (2)   The ordinance enforcement administrator shall send, by registered
mail to the property owner’s last known address, a copy of the itemized
statement of costs informing him or her that a code enforcement tax lien is
being recorded for the amount of actual costs of abatement. Payment shall be
due within 20 calendar days from the date of mailing.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the itemized statement of costs, the City Treasurer
shall record a code enforcement tax lien against the property with the County
Treasurer’s office.
      (4)   The failure of any person with a financial interest in the property
to actually receive the notice of the lien shall not affect the validity of the
lien or any proceedings taken to collect the outstanding costs of abatement.
   (C)   Procedures for tax liens with judgment. Once a judgment has been
obtained from the appropriate court assessing costs against the responsible
person, the enforcement official may record a code enforcement tax lien against
any real property owned by the responsible person.
   (D)   Cancellation of code enforcement tax lien.
      (1)   Once payment in full is received for the outstanding civil
penalties and costs, or the amount is deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent
administrative or judicial order, the enforcement official shall either record
a notice of satisfaction of judgment, or provide the property owner or
financial institution with the notice of satisfaction of judgment so that it
can record this notice with the County Recorder’s office.
      (2)   The notice of satisfaction of judgment shall include the same
information as provided in the original code enforcement tax lien. Such notice
of satisfaction of judgment shall cancel the code enforcement tax lien.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-4-1)
§ 11.66 WRIT OF EXECUTION.
   (A)   After obtaining a judgment, the enforcement official may collect the
obligation by use of all appropriate legal means.
   (B)   This may include the execution on personal property owned by the
responsible person by filing a writ with the applicable court.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-4-2)
§ 11.67 WRIT OF GARNISHMENT.
   After obtaining a judgment, the enforcement official may collect the
obligation by use of all appropriate legal means. This may include the
garnishment of paychecks, financial accounts and other income or financial
assets by filing a writ with the applicable court.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-4-3)
§ 11.68 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Abatement Superfund There is hereby established a revolving fund to be
known as the Abatement Superfund, to defray costs of administrative and
judicial abatements. The Fund shall be reimbursed by collection from the
property or property owner as specified in this chapter and by the courts. The
enforcement official shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper
account identification, credit and collection. This Fund may be operated and
used in conjunction with procedures ordered or authorized under the abatement
provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Repayment to Abatement Superfund. All monies recovered from the sale
or transfer of property or by payment for the actual abatement costs shall be
paid to the City Treasurer, who shall credit the appropriate amount to the
abatement superfund.
   (C)   Code Enforcement Administrative Fees And Costs Fund. Administrative
fees and administrative costs, except for actual abatement costs, collected
pursuant to this chapter, shall be deposited in the Code Enforcement
Administrative Fees and Costs Fund, as established by the enforcement official
for the enhancement of the city’s code enforcement efforts and to reimburse
city departments for investigative costs and costs associated with the hearing
process. Fees and costs deposited in this Fund shall be appropriated and
allocated in a manner determined by the enforcement official. The City Auditor
shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification,
credit and collection.
   (D)   Allocation of civil penalties. Civil penalties collected pursuant to
this chapter shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city. Civil
penalties deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a
manner determined by the Mayor and the City Council. The City Auditor shall
establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification, credit
and collection.
(Prior Code, § 1-4A-4-4)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES
      
35.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Eligibility and residency requirements
   
30.02   Mayor as member of City Council
   
30.03   Meetings; procedure and conduct
   
30.04   Ordinances and resolutions; procedures
§ 30.01 ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Declaration of candidacy. A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a city office shall:
      (1)   Have been a resident of the city in which the person seeks office
for at least 365 consecutive days immediately before the date of the election;
and
      (2)   Meet the other requirements of UCA § 20A-9-203.
   (B)   Annexed areas. A person living in an area annexed to the city meets
the residency requirement of this section if that person resided within the
area annexed to the city for at least 365 consecutive days before the date of
the election.
   (C)   Registered voter. Any person elected to city office shall be a
registered voter in the city.
   (D)   Residency maintained. Each elected officer of the city shall maintain
residency within the boundaries of the city during the officer’s term of
office.
   (E)   Residence outside city. If an elected officer of the city establishes
a principal place of residence as provided in UCA § 20A-2-105 outside of the
city during the officer’s term of office, the office is automatically vacant.
   (F)   Continuous absence from city. If an elected city officer is absent
from the city any time during the officer’s term of office for a continuous
period of more than 60 days without the consent of the City Council, the city
office is automatically vacant.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.02 MAYOR AS MEMBER OF CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Administration vested in Mayor. The administrative powers, authority
and duties are vested in the Mayor.
   (B)   Presiding officer; Mayor Pro Tempore. The Mayor shall be the
Chairperson and preside at the meetings of the City Council. In the absence of
the Mayor or because of his or her inability or refusal to act, the City
Council may elect a member of the City Council to preside over the meeting as
Mayor Pro Tempore, who shall have all the powers and duties of the Mayor during
his or her absence or disability. The election of a Mayor Pro Tempore shall be
entered in the minutes of the meeting.
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor is the chief executive officer to whom all employees of
the city shall report.
      (2)   The Mayor shall:
         (a)   Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the city;
         (b)   Remit fines and forfeitures;
         (c)   Report remittances under division (C)(2)(b) above to the City
Council at its next regular session;
         (d)   Perform all duties prescribed by law, resolution or ordinance;
         (e)   Ensure that all the laws and ordinances and resolutions are
faithfully executed and observed;
         (f)   Report to the City Council the condition of the city and
recommend for City Council consideration any measures that the Mayor considers
to be in the best interests of the city;
         (g)   When necessary, call on the residents of the city over the age
of 21 years to assist in enforcing the laws of the state and ordinances of the
city;
         (h)   Appoint, with the advice and consent of the City Council,
persons to fill city offices or vacancies on commissions or committees of the
city; and
         (i)   Report to the City Council any release granted under division
(C)(3)(b) below.
      (3)   The Mayor may:
         (a)   At any reasonable time, examine and inspect the official books,
papers, records or documents of the city or of any officer, employee or agent
of the city; and
         (b)   Release any person imprisoned for violation of any city
ordinance.
   (D)   No veto. The Mayor shall have no power to veto any act of the City
Council, unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 30.03 MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The governing body shall conduct regular meeting(s)
which shall be held on the second Tuesday of each month at the Myton City Hall
in the Council Room located at 125 East Main, Myton Utah which meeting(s) shall
begin promptly at 6:30 p.m. during Mountain Standard Time and at 6:30 p.m.
during Mountain Daylight Time, but if the meeting date is a legal holiday, then
the meeting shall be held at the same time and place above described on the day
next following that is not a legal holiday.
   (B)   Special meetings. If at any time the business of the city requires a
special meeting of the governing body, such meeting may be ordered by the Mayor
or any two members of the governing body. The order shall be entered in the
minutes of the governing body. The order shall provide at least three hours’
notice of the special meeting, and notice thereof shall be served by the City
Recorder on each member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice
personally or by leaving it at the member’s usual place of abode. The personal
appearance by a member at any specially called meeting constitutes a waiver of
the notice required in this section.
   (C)   Electronic meetings.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (C), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ANCHOR LOCATION. The physical location from which the electronic
meeting originates or from which the participants are connected.
         ELECTRONIC MEETING. A Myton City Corporation Council meeting convened
or conducted by means of a telephonic, telecommunications or computer
conference.
         ELECTRONIC NOTICE. Electronic mail or fax.
         MONITOR. To hear live, by speaker or by other equipment, all of the
public statements of each member of the City Council who is participating in a
meeting; or see, by computer screen or other visual medium, all of the public
statements of each member of the City Council who is participating in a
meeting.
         PARTICIPATE. The ability to communicate with all of the members of the
City Council, either verbally or electronically, so that each member of the
City Council can hear or see the communication.
         PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting at which comments from the public will be
accepted.
         PUBLIC STATEMENT. A statement made in the ordinary course of business
of the City Council with the intent that all other members of the City Council
receive it.
      (2)   Authority; notice requirements. The City Council may, by following
the procedures and requirements of this division (C), convene and conduct an
electronic meeting. The City Council convening or conducting an electronic
meeting shall:
         (a)   Give public notice of the meeting pursuant to UCA § 52-4-202, by
posting written notice at the anchor location; and provide notice to at least
one newspaper of general circulation within the geographical jurisdiction of
the public body; and
         (b)   In addition to giving public notice required by division (C)(2)
(a) above, provide notice of the electronic meeting to the members of the City
Council at least 24 hours before the meeting so that they may participate in
and be counted as present for all purposes, including the determination that a
quorum is present; and a description of how the members will be connected to
the electronic meeting.
      (3)   Procedures governing electronic meeting.
         (a)   The procedures to be followed at the electronic meeting shall be
the same as those followed by the City Council in a non-electronic meeting of
the Council. The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore shall conduct the meeting and the
meeting shall be held pursuant to the agenda posted for that meeting.
         (b)   Prior to commencing the electronic meeting, an electronic link
shall be established with all participants and the anchor location. Minutes
shall be kept for the meeting in accordance with the requirements of the open
meetings law. Following passage of a motion to adjourn, the electronic link
shall be terminated and the meeting shall be deemed concluded.
         (c)   The initial anchor location for meetings of the City Council
shall be the City Hall Council Room located at 125 East Main Street, Myton,
Utah. If the meeting is a public hearing, space and facilities will be provided
at the anchor location so that interested persons and the public may attend,
monitor and participate in the open portions of the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3) (Ord. 80-10-16-1, passed 5-16-2007; Ord. 020912-01,
passed 2-9-2012; Ord. 011118-001, passed 1-18-2018)
§ 30.04 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Power exercised by ordinance. The City Council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the city shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he or she relied on or enforced an ordinance he or she reasonably believed to
be a valid ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages
that the official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he or
she enforced an ordinance on advice of legal counsel.
   (B)   Form of ordinance. Any ordinance passed by the City Council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      (1)   A number;
      (2)   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      (3)   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      (4)   An ordaining clause which states “Be it ordained by Myton City:”;
      (5)   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      (6)   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation
of the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment, or alternative hearing
and enforcement provisions for the violation of the city ordinance; or, the
penalty may establish a classification of penalties and refer to such ordinance
in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      (7)   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      (8)   A line for the signature of the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore to sign
the ordinance;
      (9)   A place for the City Recorder to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the city;
      (10)   Where the Mayor may disapprove an ordinance passed by the City
Council, the ordinance must show that it was passed with the Mayor’s approval
or that if the Mayor disapproved the ordinance, that it was passed over his or
her disapproval. If the Mayor neither approves or disapproves an ordinance, the
ordinance should show that it became effective without the approval or
disapproval of the Mayor.
   (C)   Requirements as to form; effective date.
      (1)   Ordinances passed or enacted by the City Council shall be signed by
the Mayor, or if he or she is absent, by the Mayor Pro Tempore, or by a quorum
of the City Council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance
shall be void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions
of UCA § 10-3-704(1), (2), (3) or (4).
      (2)   Ordinances shall become effective 20 days after publication or
posting or 30 days after final passage by the City Council, whichever is closer
to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become effective at an earlier
or later date after publication or posting if so provided in the ordinance.
      (3)   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become
effective 20 days after publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage
by the City Council, whichever is sooner.
   (D)   Publication and posting of ordinances.
      (1)   Before an ordinance may take effect, the legislative body of the
city adopting an ordinance, except an ordinance enacted under UCA §§ 10-3-706
through 10-3-710, shall:
         (a)   Deposit a copy of the ordinance in the office of the City
Recorder; and
         (b)   1.   Publish a short summary of the ordinance at least once:
               a.   In a newspaper published within the city; or
               b.   If there is no newspaper published within the city, in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city.
            2.   Post a complete copy of the ordinance in three public places
within the city.
      (2)   (a)   Any ordinance, code or book, other than the state code,
relating to building or safety standards, municipal functions, administration,
control or regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further
publication or posting, if reference is made to the code or book and at least
one copy has been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of
the City Recorder prior to the adoption of the ordinance by the governing body.
         (b)   Any state law relating to building or safety standards,
municipal functions, administration, control or regulations, may be adopted and
shall take effect without further publication or posting if reference is made
to the state code.
         (c)   The ordinance adopting the code or book shall be published in
the manner provided in this division (D)(2).
   (E)   Recording, numbering and certification of passage. The City Recorder
shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, all ordinances
passed by the City Council. The City Recorder shall number all ordinances
consecutively, adopted after this code, beginning with number one and shall
continue thereafter to consecutively number all ordinances filed and spread
upon the ordinances in the order of their passage and shall assign appropriate
section numbers in conformity with the system of numbering sections used in
this code. Immediately following each ordinance, or codification of ordinances,
the City Recorder shall make or cause to be made a certificate stating the date
of passage and of the date of publication or posting, as required. The record
and memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of
the contents, passage and publication or posting of the ordinance or
codification.
   (F)   Resolutions.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   Unless otherwise required by law, the City Council may exercise
all administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited to:
            1.   Establishing water and sewer rates;
            2.   Charges for garbage collection and fees charged for city
services;
            3.   Establishing personnel policies and guidelines; and
            4.   Regulating the use and operation of the city property.
         (b)   Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by
resolution.
      (2)   Form. Any resolution passed by the City Council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
      (3)   Publication; effective date. Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect upon passage or at a later
date as the City Council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three months from the date of passage.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Creating offices; filling vacancies
   
31.02   Oaths
   
31.03   City Recorder and City Treasurer
§ 31.01 CREATING OFFICES; FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   Offices created by Council. The City Council may create any office
deemed necessary for the government of the city and provide for filling
vacancies in elective and appointive offices.
   (B)   Mayor to appoint and fill vacancies. The Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council, may appoint and fill vacancies in all offices
provided for by law or ordinance.
   (C)   Continuation in office. All appointed officers shall continue in
office until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.02 OATHS.
   (A)   Constitutional oath of office. All officers, whether elected or
appointed, before entering on the duties of their respective offices shall
take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office.
   (B)   Filing. The oath of office required under this section shall be
administered by any judge, notary public or by the City Recorder. Elected
officials shall take their oath of office at 12:00 noon on the first Monday in
January following their election or as soon thereafter as is practical.
Appointed officers shall take their oath at any time before entering on their
duties. All oaths of office shall be filed with the City Recorder.
   (C)   Acts of officials not voided. No official act of any city officer
shall be invalid for the reason that he or she failed to take the oath of
office.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 31.03 CITY RECORDER AND CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment. On or before the first Monday in February following a
city election, the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council,
shall appoint a qualified person to each of the offices of City Recorder and
City Treasurer.
   (B)   Ex officio Auditor. The City Recorder is ex officio the City Auditor
and shall perform the duties of that office.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
CHAPTER 32: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   Fire Chief
   
32.02   Officers of Fire Department
   
32.03   Drills and meetings; minors on premises
   
32.04   Financial responsibility and procedure
   
32.05   Expenditures by Department
§ 32.01 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby created the position of Chief of the
Volunteer Fire Department.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the
administration and the enforcement of this chapter. Under his or her direction,
the Volunteer Fire Department shall be responsible for enforcing all ordinances
of the city pertaining to:
      (1)   The prevention of fires;
      (2)   The suppression or extinguishing of dangerous or hazardous fires;
      (3)   The maintenance of fire protection and elimination of fire hazards
on land and in buildings, structures and other property, including those under
construction;
      (4)   The investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fire;
      (5)   During the fire, the Fire Chief shall have full authority to take
all measures as he or she deems necessary, subject to state law, to control and
extinguish the fire and for that purpose he or she is hereby made a special
peace officer;
      (6)   The Chief shall report to the governing body, at least quarterly,
the conditions of the Volunteer Fire Department, together with other
information as the governing body may request or that he or she deems
appropriate;
      (7)   The Chief shall be responsible for maintaining the equipment of the
Department in good repair and order and ready for use;
      (8)   The Chief, subject to the approval of the Mayor and the City
Council, shall establish rules and regulations for the operation of the
Department;
      (9)   The Fire Chief may delegate his or her duties to any person in the
Department, but such delegation shall not relieve the Chief of his or her
responsibilities for the performance thereof; and
      (10)   The Fire Chief may establish within the Volunteer Fire Department,
under his or her direction, a Fire Prevention Bureau, which shall consist of
such Volunteer Fire Department personnel as may be assigned thereto by the Fire
Chief. The function of this Bureau shall be to assist in the enforcement of the
fire prevention provisions of the adopted fire code and applicable city
ordinances. It shall be the duty of the Chief and the Volunteer Fire
Department, and the Fire Prevention Bureau, if established by the Fire Chief,
to eliminate fire hazards under the authority of the adopted fire code, which
currently states:
Accumulation of waste paper, hay, straw, weeds, litter or combustible or
flammable waste material, waste petroleum products or rubbish of any kind shall
not be permitted to remain upon any roof, or in any court, yard, vacant lot or
open space. Department must have a request or permission from the landowner or
his or her agent, to kindle a fire on his or her property to eliminate fire
hazards.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 32.02 OFFICERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Election of officers. The city’s Volunteer Fire Department shall elect
officers every four years following a municipal election. It shall elect from
its membership a Chief, Assistant Chief, Secretary/Treasurer and other such
officers as it deems necessary. On or before the first Monday in February
following a municipal election, the officers’ names will be presented to the
City Council for their approval. These officers shall qualify by taking the
constitutional oath of office.
   (B)   Requirements of officers. Officers must be active members of the
Department and have received at least 24 hours of formal training from a
certified firefighting instructor. The Chief must be a resident of the city.
   (C)   Removal of officers. The officers of the Volunteer Fire Department may
be removed from office for dereliction of duty, by majority vote of the City
Council or a majority vote of the Volunteer Fire Department members.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 32.03 DRILLS AND MEETINGS; MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department will hold regular meetings and drills.
The time and place of the meetings will be set by the Department and notice
given to the public.
   (B)   In order to limit city liability, no person or persons under 18 years
of age will be allowed in the fire station or on firefighting equipment, except
on special organized approved activities.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 32.04 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND PROCEDURE.
   The city is responsible to maintain and support the Volunteer Fire
Department. The city relies heavily on the county to do this. The Volunteer
Fire Department must submit its budget to the Mayor and City Council, for
consideration in their annual budget by April 1 each year. The tentative
operating and capital budget for each Department of the city must be adopted on
or before the first regular meeting of the City Council in May. A supplementary
estimate of capital projects which the Department believes should be undertaken
within the next three years, should be submitted annually, in conjunction with
its budget request. The City Budget Officer will take large capital outlay
items to the county for its consideration in its budget. This should be done no
later than September.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 32.05 EXPENDITURES BY DEPARTMENT.
   Any purchase over $300 made by the Volunteer Fire Department members, to be
paid by the city, must be first approved by the Mayor and the City Council. Any
large expenditures must be approved by the Mayor and City Council. All
purchases require a purchase order.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Conduct
§ 33.01 CONDUCT.
   The city adopts a nonpartisan form of election in accordance with state
statute. Election for Mayor and Council members shall be conducted according to
the municipal election section of UCA § 20A-9-404.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
CHAPTER 34: CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES
Section
   
34.01   Purpose
   
34.02   Definition
   
34.03   Guidelines
   
34.04   Analysis
   
34.05   Appeals
   
34.06   Limitations
   
34.07   Legal action; administrative remedies
§ 34.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide advisory guidelines for the city
to assist the city in identifying actions that involve the unconstitutional
taking or exaction of private real property that may have constitutional taking
issues.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 34.02 DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter, CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES means actions
involving the physical or regulatory taking of private real property by the
city that might require compensation to a private real property owner under:
   (A)   The Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States;
   (B)   Article I, § 22 of the Utah Constitution; or
   (C)   Any recent court rulings governing the physical or regulatory taking
of private real property by a governmental entity.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
§ 34.03 GUIDELINES.
   The following guidelines shall be considered by the city when taking any
action that might result in the physical or regulatory taking of private real
property. The city should review the following to determine and identify
whether a proposed governmental action raises constitutional taking issues:
   (A)   Does the action result in a permanent physical occupation of private
property?
   (B)   Does the action require a property owner to dedicate property or grant
an easement to the city?
   (C)   Does the action deprive the property owner of all economically viable
uses of the property?
   (D)   Does the action have a severe impact on the property owner’s economic
interest?
   (E)   Does the action deny a fundamental attribute of ownership?
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3)
§ 34.04 ANALYSIS.
   If the city determines that a governmental action involves constitutional
taking issues, the proposed action should be reviewed by the city to analyze
the possible taking and to determine the action to be taken. In reviewing the
proposed action, the following factors may be analyzed:
   (A)   The effect the potential taking would have on the use or value of the
private property;
   (B)   The likelihood that the action may result in a constitutional taking;
   (C)   Any alternatives to the proposed action that would fulfill the city’s
lawful objectives and reduce the risk of a constitutional taking;
   (D)   The cost to the city for payment of compensation if a taking is
determined;
   (E)   The governmental interest involved and its nexus to the potential
taking; and
   (F)   If the action is roughly proportionate or reasonably related to the
impact of any proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4)
§ 34.05 APPEALS.
   Any owner of private property whose interest in the property is subject to a
physical or regulatory taking by the city, pursuant to a final and
authoritative decision or action of the city, may appeal the city’s decision or
action by filing a written notice of appeal and statement of the grounds for
the appeal in the City Recorder’s office within 30 days from the date of the
city’s decision or action. The City Council or its designee shall hear all
evidence regarding the appeal and render its decision and findings in writing
within 14 days from the date the appeal was filed. If the city fails to hear
and decide the appeal within 14 days, the city’s decision or action is presumed
to be approved.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5)
§ 34.06 LIMITATIONS.
   The guidelines set forth herein are advisory only and shall not be construed
to expand nor limit the scope of the city’s liability for a constitutional
taking. The city shall have no legal liability to any person, firm or entity of
any nature whatsoever, and a court may not impose liability upon the city for
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6)
§ 34.07 LEGAL ACTION; ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   A property owner’s failure to appeal the action of the city does not
constitute, and may not be interpreted as constituting, a failure to exhaust
available administrative remedies or as a bar to bringing legal action.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-7)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Tax levied
   
35.04   Exemptions
   
35.05   Existing franchise agreements; credit for franchise fees
   
35.06   Tax collection contract with state
   
35.07   State statutes incorporated
   
35.08   Additional license or reporting not required
   
35.09   Effective date
MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the city to repeal its gross revenue tax levied on gas
and electricity and adopt the municipal energy sales and use tax, pursuant to,
and in conformance with, UCA §§ 10-1-301 et seq., the Municipal Energy Sales
and Use Tax Act.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-1)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER. A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject
to the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE.
      (1)   A fee:
         (a)   Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
         (b)   That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
      (2)   (a)   A fee similar to division (1) above of this definition; or
         (b)   Any combination of divisions (1) and (2)(a) above of this
definition.
   DELIVERED VALUE.
      (1)   The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for sale or
use in the municipality and includes:
         (a)   The value of the energy itself; and
         (b)   Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service
charges or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable
form to each class of customer in the municipality.
      (2)   DELIVERED VALUE does not include the amount of a tax paid under UCA
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1 or Part 2.
   ENERGY SUPPLIER. A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimus amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded
by rule promulgated by the State Tax Commission.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A franchise or an ordinance, contract or agreement
granting a franchise.
   FRANCHISE TAX.
      (1)   A franchise tax;
      (2)   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
      (3)   Any combination of divisions (1) and (2) above of this definition.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate,
this state, any county, city, municipality, district or other local
governmental entity of the state, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
   SALE. Any transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise,
in any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
      (1)   Installment and credit sales;
      (2)   Any closed transaction constituting a sale; and
      (3)   Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume
taxable energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be
taxable if an outright sale were made.
   STORAGE. Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in the city for any
purpose, except sale in the regular course of business.
   TAXABLE ENERGY. Gas and electricity.
   USE.
      (1)   The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to
the ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
      (2)   USE does not include the sale, display, demonstration or trial of
the taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-2)
§ 35.03 TAX LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this chapter, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made within the city equaling 6% of the
delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax shall be known
as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   (A)   The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer.
   (B)   The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on taxable energy
imposed by the city authorized by UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 2, the Local
Sales and Use Tax Act.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-3)
§ 35.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
except as expressly provided in UCA § 10-1-305.
   (B)   The following are exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to UCA § 10-1-305:
      (1)   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel and special fuels
subject to taxation under UCA Title 59, Chapter 13;
      (2)   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
federal law, the United States Constitution or the Utah Constitution;
      (3)   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
      (4)   Sales or use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a
fuel subject to taxation under UCA Title 59, Chapter 13;
      (5)   Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for the
nonresident’s own personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident living or
working in the state at the time of purchase;
      (6)   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      (7)   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the
city.
   (C)   The sale, storage, use or other consumption of taxable energy is
exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this chapter,
provided:
      (1)   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
state authorized by UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 3; and
      (2)   The city is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this chapter, if the
tax due under this chapter exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-4)
§ 35.05 EXISTING FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS; CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE FEES.
   (A)   This chapter shall not alter any existing franchise agreements between
the city and energy suppliers.
   (B)   There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the amount
of a contractual franchise fee paid, if:
      (1)   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the city
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 1997;
      (2)   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      (3)   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-5)
§ 35.06 TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE.
   (A)   On or before the effective date hereof, the city shall contract with
the State Tax Commission to perform all functions incident to the
administration and collection of the municipal energy sales and use tax, in
accordance with this chapter. This contract may be a supplement to the existing
contract with the Commission to administer and collect the local sales and use
tax. The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, as applicable, is hereby
authorized to enter supplementary, as applicable, agreements with the State Tax
Commission that may be necessary to the continued administration and operation
of the municipal energy sales and use tax ordinance enacted by this chapter.
   (B)   An energy supplier shall pay the municipal energy sales and use tax
revenues collected from consumers directly to the city monthly, if:
      (1)   The city is the energy supplier; or
      (2)   (a)   The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales
and use tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals $1,000,000 or
more; and
         (b)   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   (C)   An energy supplier paying the municipal energy sales and use tax
directly to the city may deduct any contractual franchise fees collected by the
energy supplier qualifying as a credit and remit the net tax less any amount
the energy supplier retains as authorized by UCA § 10-1-307.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-6)
§ 35.07 STATE STATUTES INCORPORATED.
   (A)   Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of UCA Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 3, the Municipal Energy
Sales and Use Tax Act, as well as this chapter, all of the provisions of UCA
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1, as amended, and in force and effect on the
effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes, excepting
UCA § 59-12-101 thereof, and excepting for the amount of the sales and use
taxes levied therein, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if
fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Wherever, and to the extent that in UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1,
as amended, the state is named or referred to as the “taxing agency”, the name
of the city shall be substituted, insofar as is necessary for the purposes of
that part, as well as UCA Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 3, as amended. Nothing in
this division (B) shall be deemed to require substitution of the name Myton
City for the word “state” when that word is used as part of the title of the
State Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of
Myton City be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result
of such a substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city
or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any amendments made to UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1, as amended,
which would be applicable to the city for the purposes of carrying out this
chapter are hereby incorporated herein by reference and shall be effective upon
the date that they are effective as a state statute.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-7)
§ 35.08 ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING NOT REQUIRED.
   No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and
use tax levied by this chapter is required, provided the energy supplier
collecting the tax has a license issued under UCA § 59-12-106.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-8)
§ 35.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter is effective June 30, 1997. The municipal energy sales and use
tax shall be levied beginning 12:01 a.m., July 1, 1997.
(Prior Code, § 3-3A-9)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
52.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICES
      
53.   SEWER CONNECTIONS
      
54.   SEWER USE REGULATIONS
      
55.   PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
      
56.   CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
50.02   Hearing Board
   
50.03   Violations
   
50.04   Liability for expense
§ 50.01 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Inspections performed. The utilities maintenance person and other duly
authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to the
community system in accordance with the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Information required. The utilities maintenance person or other duly
authorized employees are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial
processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to
the wastewater collection system. In the event any industry or other wastewater
generator reasonably believes that the release of such information to the city
may compromise its competitive economic position, the industry must establish
that the revelation to the public of the information in question might result
in an advantage to competitors through clear and convincing evidence. Upon such
a showing before a designated Hearing Officer, the industry shall be entitled
to an order protecting the confidentiality of the information. Notwithstanding
this provision for protecting proprietary information, no industry or
wastewater generator shall be excused from providing to the city such
information as the city may reasonably require to protect the integrity of the
public system or the public health.
   (C)   Safety rules in force. While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in division (A) above, the utilities maintenance person
or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company.
   (D)   Permitted to enter private property. The utilities maintenance person
and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which
the city holds an easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1)
§ 50.02 HEARING BOARD.
   The City Council will act as the appointed hearing board as needed for
arbitration of difference between the utilities maintenance person and sewer
users on matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of
this title by the utilities maintenance person.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2)
§ 50.03 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this title shall be served
by the city with a written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3)
§ 50.04 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of
such violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-4)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Regulations may be adopted
   
51.03   Disposal of garbage
   
51.04   Service charges
   
51.05   Containers
   
51.06   Disposal of community waste
   
51.07   Prohibited acts and activities
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL GARBAGE. Garbage produced in commercial establishments, public or
quasi-public institutions or establishments, including restaurants, hotels,
motels, grocery stores or markets, and similar establishments.
   COMMUNITY WASTE. Lawn cuttings, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves,
weeds and trees and tree branches.
   CONTAINER or REGULATION CONTAINER. A type of garbage or trash container as
prescribed by the city.
   GARBAGE. Waste from the preparation, handling, storing, cooking and
consumption of food or food products.
   REFUSE. All waste matter, except garbage, attending or resulting from the
occupancy of residents, apartments, hotels, or other places of dwelling or from
operation of a business. REFUSE shall not be deemed to include industrial waste
or waste matter resulting from the construction, demolition or repair of a
building or other structure.
   RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE. Garbage produced in places of residence, use or
occupation of or by individual residents and dining halls not open to the
public.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 020912-01, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 51.02 REGULATIONS MAY BE ADOPTED.
   The governing body may adopt such regulations as in its opinion are
necessary to implement this chapter and its objectives.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)
§ 51.03 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE.
   It shall be the responsibility of all citizens of the city to properly
dispose of their garbage through either contracting with a recognized and
licensed garbage collection service or to place their garbage in a refuse
container designated by the governing body for the purposes of municipal
collection, or to arrange for the transport of said garbage to an officially
designated or licensed dumping area. Nothing contained in this section shall
preclude persons from hauling their own garbage, trash or community waste over
the streets and alleys of the municipality in vehicles and containers
appropriate for said purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
§ 51.04 SERVICE CHARGES.
   The governing body shall, by resolution, establish such rates as are
necessary as service charges for the collection and disposal of garbage. The
service charges authorized herein shall not be applied to those who are under a
valid contract with a recognized and licensed collector of garbage providing
collection to the contracting resident at least once per week. It shall be the
responsibility of the collection company or the individual to provide proof
that said contract is in effect.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4)
§ 51.05 CONTAINERS.
   All garbage and refuse shall be placed in suitable and sufficient garbage
receptacles: either receptacles with tightfitting lids; or in properly and
sufficiently treated water resistant bags manufactured specifically for use for
garbage and refuse collection. All garbage and commercial waste must be placed
in rainproof receptacles as herein required, and the receptacles shall be
tightly closed in such a manner as to prevent offensive odors or flies.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5)
§ 51.06 DISPOSAL OF COMMUNITY WASTE.
   (A)   Community waste may be transported and disposed of by residents and
business establishments in vehicles provided by them, subject to regulation by
the governing body as to the places of disposal. Vehicles used shall be of a
type sufficient to avoid spilling waste upon the public ways of the
municipality creating hazards to safety, and shall aid in the prevention of
nuisances.
   (B)   The governing body may from time to time provide for the collection
and disposal of such types of community waste as it may decide to collect and
haul in connection with any project it may establish for community cleanup.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6)
§ 51.07 PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No accumulation of garbage. It shall be unlawful for any person to
accumulate garbage or refuse or cause garbage or refuse to be deposited upon
any street or alley, or upon any premises in the city for longer than seven
days.
   (B)   Burning refuse. It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage,
market or commercial waste, manure or other refuse in the open air or in any
furnace or stove within the municipality. Burning of community waste is allowed
during approved periods.
   (C)   Dumping refuse. It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit
or dump garbage, ashes, commercial waste, paper boxes, cartons, trade waste,
manure or night soil, or any other refuse, upon any lot within the
municipality, whether such lot is occupied or vacant, or whether such person so
placing, depositing or dumping such refuse is the owner, tenant, occupant or
lessor thereof and has the same under his or her jurisdiction and control. This
shall not be construed as prohibiting the use of appropriate waste material or
refuse in any agricultural pursuit.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWER SERVICES
Section
   
52.01   Water and Sewer Department created
   
52.02   Utilities maintenance person
   
52.03   Regulations and rates adopted
   
52.04   Application for service
   
52.05   Deposit to accompany application
   
52.06   Fees, rates, charges and billings
   
52.07   Installations
   
52.08   Turn on water by authorized personnel
   
52.09   Meters
   
52.10   Prohibited acts and activities
   
52.11   Scarcity of water
   
52.12   Services outside city
   
52.13   Enforcement action
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   The Water and Sewer Department is hereby created. It shall be made up of all
the property and equipment and personnel necessary for the maintenance and
operation of the city water supply and distribution and of its sewage disposal.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 52.02 UTILITIES MAINTENANCE PERSON.
   (A)   Position created. The Mayor may employ, with the approval of the City
Council, a competent person in the position of utilities maintenance person. He
or she may report to the Mayor, as instructed by his or her job description and
policy and procedure resolution. He or she may be removed from his or her
position at any time for due cause.
   (B)   Duties. The maintenance person of the utilities systems shall, under
the direction of the Mayor, have charge of all water and water sources, water
tanks, water mains, fire hydrants and all the equipment pertaining to the
waterworks and sewage systems. He or she shall be responsible for the proper
installation and maintenance of all water and sewer lines. The Mayor shall
bring to the City Council his or her reports on the condition of the waterworks
and the sewer system, and make such suggestions as the nature of the service
may require.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 52.03 REGULATIONS AND RATES ADOPTED.
   The Mayor and City Council shall enact, by resolution, regulations and rates
necessary for the management and control of the Water and Sewer Department of
the city. The resolutions are to be attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 52.04 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Form. Any person desiring, or who is required, to secure water and/or
sewer service from the City Water and Sewer Department, when such service is
available, shall apply to the City Recorder and file an agreement with the
city, which shall be in such form as is on file in the city office.
   (B)   Tenant applications. Applications for water and sewer services made by
the tenant of an owner must, in addition to the above requirements, be
accompanied by an agreement signed by the owner of the premises to the
following effect:
   In consideration of the granting of the application for water and sewer
services submitted by                      , tenant, I will pay for all water
and sewer furnished such tenant, or any other occupant of (premises named in
application) in case such tenant or occupant shall fail to pay for the same
according to the ordinances, rules and regulations enacted by the City of
Myton.
   (C)   Application turn-on charge. Application to have water turned on shall
be made to the city office and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to
abide by and accept all provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the
use of the city water supply by the applicant. If the applicant has not paid a
water bill for a period of three years, a reactivation fee, in such amount as
established by resolution of the City Council, shall be paid.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 52.05 DEPOSIT TO ACCOMPANY APPLICATION.
   A deposit, to be set by resolution by the City Council, shall be made with
each application for water service, this sum to be retained by the city, to
ensure payment of all bills. When service to an applicant is discontinued
permanently, this deposit, less any amount still due the city for water, sewer
and garbage services, shall be refunded without interest. Where any applicant
for services is the owner of the premises to be served, the deposit will be
refunded after one year of regular monthly payments.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 52.06 FEES, RATES, CHARGES AND BILLINGS.
   (A)   Connection fee and permit; new connections only.
      (1)   No connection with city water mains shall be made until the
connection fee (hookup fee) has been paid and a permit issued. The connection
fee shall include the water meter, complete with yoke and lid, and all
necessary piping from the main line to the connected property line; provided,
that said culinary water connection is within 400 feet of a main water line.
      (2)   The connection fee shall be according to the size of the pipe. For
connections of larger size pipe and meters, the connection fee shall be at the
discretion of the City Council, but no less than the amount charged for a one
inch connection, plus the added cost for material over a one inch connection.
All meters and meter boxes to remain the property of the city.
   (B)   Billing. Bills for water used shall be dated and sent out by the
fifteenth of each month. In the event that meters are read only every other
month, the in between meter readings billing shall be the minimum rate, the
actual difference to be made up on the next billing.
   (C)   Nonpayment. The water supply may be cut off from any premises for
which the water bill remains unpaid for a period of 30 days after the bill is
rendered and mailed. When the water is shut off, water shall not be turned on
except upon the payment of a turn-on charge, in such amount as established by
resolution of the City Council, and payment of delinquent bill.
   (D)   Lien. Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid 60 days after
it has been rendered, the City Recorder may file with the County Recorder the
proper legal papers for a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain
the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill,
and a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount, as well as for all
charges for water served subsequent to the period covered by the bill and legal
fees connected to the lien.
   (E)   Foreclosure of lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid water
charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale
shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is in the case
of the foreclosure of statutory liens.
   (F)   Board of Equalization. The City Council is hereby declared a Board of
Equalization of water and sewer rates and fees, to hear complaints and make
corrections of any assessment deemed to be illegal, unjust or unequal. It may,
if it sees fit, rebate all or any part of the water and sewer bill of any
indigent person.
   (G)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
         (c)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel, or any other person of his or her choosing, and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   (a)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be
entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
         (b)   In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the
hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time
specified, but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at
least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $20.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 52.07 INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Cost; inspection. All service pipes from the meter to the premises
served shall be installed by, and at the cost of, the owner of the property to
be served or the applicant for the service. Such installation shall be under
the inspection of the utilities maintenance person.
   (B)   Conformance with specifications. No service shall be installed unless
it conforms to specifications drawn up by the City Council and approved
thereof. A copy of said specifications shall be kept on file at the city office
for inspection by any person interested.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
§ 52.08 TURN ON WATER BY AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL.
   No water from the city water supply shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person but the utilities maintenance person or some person
authorized by him or her to perform this service.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 METERS.
   (A)   Required. All premises using the city water supply must be equipped
with an adequate water meter furnished by the city.
   (B)   Location; access. Meters shall be installed in a location that will
have easy access.
   (C)   Reading meters. The utilities maintenance person shall read or cause
to be read every water meter used in the city at least once every two months.
(Except in the winter months when reading may cause freezing. A flat rate shall
be charged at this time.)
   (D)   Testing meters. Any municipal meter shall be taken out and tested upon
complaint of consumer, upon payment of a fee in such amount as established by
resolution of the City Council, which may be waived by the city. If, upon test,
the meter is not within 3% of being accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced
and the fee returned to the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9)
§ 52.10 PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Resale of water prohibited. No water shall be resold or distributed by
the recipient thereof from the city supply to any premises other than that for
which application has been made and the meter installed.
   (B)   Two users on one connection. Under no circumstances shall two or more
users be connected to the same residential meter.
   (C)   Waste of water. It shall be unlawful for any water user to waste
water, or allow it to be wasted, by imperfect stops, taps, valves, leaky joints
or pipes, or to wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets, sinks or other
apparatus, or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for
controlling the water supply.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 SCARCITY OF WATER.
   In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall be the judgment of the Mayor
and City Council that it is necessary, the Mayor shall by proclamation limit
the use of water for other than domestic purposes, to such extent as may be
necessary for the public good. It shall be unlawful for any person by himself
or herself, family, servants or agents, to violate any proclamation by the
Mayor in pursuance of this action.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.12 SERVICES OUTSIDE CITY.
   (A)   Authorized. For water service outside the corporate city limits, the
connection fee, the turn on fee and the rates, shall be set by resolution upon
the decision of the City Council to provide such services.
   (B)   Guarantee. The city shall require, from time to time, the posting of a
service payment guarantee from each outside city customer, such guarantee to be
in such amount as shall be determined by the City Council, or in lieu thereof,
the utilities maintenance person shall obtain a service application signed by
the fee title owner of the property to be served, and providing for water
charges, together with penalty, interest and costs, to become a lien against
the property to be served, and said agreement to run as a covenant with the
land.
   (C)   Installation of service lines. No water service lines shall be
installed outside the city and such water lines as are necessary for rendering
of water service outside of the corporate limits shall be installed at the
expense of the applicants, and water service shall be provided by the city only
after the water extension lines have been assigned to the city, together with
necessary easements and rights-of-way.
   (D)   Charges due; delinquency. The times when water service charges become
due and become delinquent and become subject to shutoff, shall be the same as
provided in this chapter for users within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-12)
§ 52.13 ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   The officers of the city are hereby authorized and directed to take all
action necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-13)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any firm, corporation, person or persons not
authorized by the city to turn on water, tamper with, alter or injure any part
of the city waterworks or supply system, or any meter therein. Any firm,
corporation, person or persons violating this chapter may be subject to penalty
as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and/or the alternative hearing and
enforcement program as provided in
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER CONNECTIONS
Section
   
53.01   Application and permit required
   
53.02   Sewer permit classifications
   
53.03   Cost and expense
   
53.04   Separate sewer required; exception
   
53.05   Regulations and requirements
   
53.06   Inspection
   
53.07   Excavations; barricades, restoration
§ 53.01 APPLICATION AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written application and permit from the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.02 SEWER PERMIT CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Specified. There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   Residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   Service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   Application; fee. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the utilities maintenance
person. A permit and inspection fee for a residential or commercial building
sewer, and an industrial building sewer permit, shall be paid to the city at
the time the application is filed, such fee to be set by resolution by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
§ 53.03 COST AND EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owners.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
§ 53.04 SEPARATE SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   A separate and independent sewer shall be provided for every building,
except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and
no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
   (B)   The residential fee will be waived in the case of the father, mother
or handicapped son or daughter residing in the rear building as mentioned
above.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4)
§ 53.05 REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Old connections. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
utilities maintenance person, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Code compliance.
      (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials and construction of all
sanitary sewers, including building sewers, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes, or
other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of suitable
code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No.
9, or its lawfully adopted successor, shall apply.
      (2)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by
proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must
be approved by the utilities maintenance person before installation.
   (C)   Sewer elevation. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be
brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by
an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (D)   Surface drainage. No person shall make connection of roof downspouts,
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer, unless such connection is approved by
the city for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5)
§ 53.06 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the utilities
maintenance person when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under
the supervision of the utilities maintenance person or his or her
representative.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6)
§ 53.07 EXCAVATIONS; BARRICADES, RESTORATION.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7)
CHAPTER 54: SEWER USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Connection required
   
54.03   Discharge regulations
   
54.04   Prohibited acts and activities
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called “house connection” or “hookup”.
   CITY. Myton City, Utah.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Myton City.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   HEARING BOARD. That board appointed according to provisions of §
50.02 of this title.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business, as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. Is permissive. (See definition of SHALL.)
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ions, in grams, per
liter of solution. Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and hydrogen
ion concentration of 10-.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, drain and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER, as
defined in this section.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. Is mandatory. (See definition of MAY.)
   SLUDGE. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   SLUG, WATER SLUG. An amount of water discharged into the sanitary sewer
system in a volume in excess of that normally anticipated in normal system
operations. SLUGS represent amounts and volumes of water of sufficient mass and
velocity that in an undampended or underdampened condition may reasonably be
expected to lead to or induce the presence of a water hammer in the system.
Such accelerating and trapped water slugs proceeding through a pipeline create
the very real prospect of system damage or failure due to hydrodynamic loads
(i.e., force time curves) on various pipe segments of the system’s
infrastructure.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water, ground
water, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in standard methods for the
examination of water and wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   UTILITIES MAINTENANCE PERSON. The person employed by Myton City for the
overall maintenance of wastewater facilities of Myton City, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and process required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial waste, and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial waste and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with waste treatment plant or wastewater treatment plant or water pollution
control plant.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 54.02 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment or recreation, or held for any other purposes situated within the
city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city,
are hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after
date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within
300 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.03 DISCHARGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Discharge of drainage. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any unpolluted waters such as storm water, surface water, ground
water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sewer, except
storm water runoff from limited areas, which storm water may be polluted at
times, and which may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the
city.
   (B)   Storm water. Storm water, other than that exempted under division (A)
above, and all other unpolluted drainage, shall be discharged to such sewers as
are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by
the utilities maintenance person and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the utilities maintenance person, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Regulation of sewer waste waters. No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any public
sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
   (D)   Wastewater limitations. The following described substances, materials,
waters or waste shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to
concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater
treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property
or constitute a nuisance. The utilities maintenance person may set limitations
lower than the limitations established in the regulations below if, in his or
her opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above
objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability, the
utilities maintenance person will give his or her consideration to such factors
as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the utilities maintenance person are
as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter (25 mg/l)
of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil
origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that is not “properly shredded garbage”, as defined in
§
54.01. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels,
institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places
where garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the
purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the utilities maintenance person for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the utilities maintenance person;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the utilities maintenance
person in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
slug, as defined in §
54.01;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (E)   Discharge having deleterious effect; authority.
      (1)   If any waters or wastes, whether residential, commercial or of
whatsoever origin, are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which water contains the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (C) above, or which, in the judgment of
the utilities maintenance person, may have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater facilities, process equipment or receiving waters, or which
otherwise creates a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
utilities maintenance person may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (J) below, regardless of source or origin.
      (2)   When considering the above alternatives, the utilities maintenance
person shall give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on
the discharger. If the utilities maintenance person permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the utilities
maintenance person or authorized designee.
   (F)   Interceptors. Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided
when, in the opinion of the utilities maintenance person, they are necessary
for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease as
specified in division (D)(3) above, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients in amounts deemed by the utilities maintenance person to be
excessive; except, interceptors shall not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the utilities maintenance person, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In maintaining these
interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates, and means of disposal, which records are subject to
review by the utilities maintenance person at any reasonable time. Any removal
and hauling of the collected materials not performed by an owner personally
must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   (G)   Facilities maintained at owner’s expense. Where pretreatment or flow
equalizing facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactorily and effective operation by
the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   Information required for wastewater sewer services. The utilities
maintenance person may require a user of sewer services to provide information
needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These requirements may
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analysis of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the city sewer.
   (I)   Wastewater testing. All measurements, tests and analyses of the
characteristics of water and wastes to which reference is made in this title
shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods
For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater, published by the American Public
Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis, subject to approval by
the utilities maintenance person.
   (J)   Special agreements or arrangements. No statement contained in this
section shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial or other concern whereby any waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.04 PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Deposit of waste. It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city,
any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectional waste.
   (B)   Unlawful discharge of wastewater. It shall be unlawful to discharge to
any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
said city, any sewage or polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with relevant provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Unlawful wastewater disposal facilities. Except as hereinafter
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for disposal of
wastewater.
   (D)   Damage to facilities. No person shall maliciously, willfully or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the wastewater
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 55: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
Section
   
55.01   Permitted
   
55.02   Application, permit and fee required
   
55.03   Inspection required
   
55.04   Compliance with regulations
   
55.05   Availability of public sewer
   
55.06   Maintenance of private facilities
   
55.07   Additional requirements may be imposed
§ 55.01 PERMITTED.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
54.02 of this code of ordinances, the sewer of any building generating, or
reasonably calculated to generate, wastewater discharge, shall be connected to
a private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1)
§ 55.02 APPLICATION, PERMIT AND FEE REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal system,
the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the utilities
maintenance person. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the utilities
maintenance person. A permit and inspection fee, the amount to be set by
resolution by the City Council, shall be paid to the city at the time
application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2)
§ 55.03 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the utilities
maintenance person. The utilities maintenance person shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction; and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the utilities maintenance person when the work is
ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the
utilities maintenance person.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3)
§ 55.04 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department of Health.
No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
25,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4)
§ 55.05 AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
54.02 of this code of ordinances, a direct connection shall be made to the
public system within 60 days in compliance with this title, and any septic
tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material, and otherwise rendered
safe and unusable.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5)
§ 55.06 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE FACILITIES.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city. Sludge
shall be removed by a licensed operator and disposed of as required by the
State Department of Health and city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6)
§ 55.07 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS MAY BE IMPOSED.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State Department of
Health or the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7)
CHAPTER 56: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROLS
Section
General Policy
   
56.01   Purpose
   
56.02   Responsibility; drinking water purveyor
   
56.03   Responsibility; customer
   
56.04   Responsibility; plumbing official
   
56.05   Responsibility; certified backflow technician, surveyor or repair
person
   
56.06   Responsibility; repair of backflow assemblies
Definitions
   
56.20   Definitions
Requirements
   
56.35   Policy
   
56.36   Violation
GENERAL POLICY
§ 56.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To protect the public drinking water supply of Myton City Corporation
from the possibility of contamination or pollution by requiring compliance with
the Utah State Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems and the Plumbing Code as
adopted by the state, that require a cross connection control protection of all
public drinking water systems in the state. Compliance with these minimum
safety codes will be considered reasonable diligence for the prevention of
contaminants or pollutants which could backflow into the public drinking water
system;
   (B)   To promote the reasonable elimination or control of cross connection
in the plumbing fixtures and industrial piping system(s) of the consumer, as
required by the state and plumbing regulations to assure water system safety;
and
   (C)   To provide for the administration of a continuing program of backflow
prevention which will systematically examine risk and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of the drinking water system.
(Ord. 11122019-001, eff. 11-19-2019)
§ 56.02 RESPONSIBILITY; DRINKING WATER PURVEYOR.
   (A)   Myton City Corporation shall be responsible for the protection of the
drinking water distribution system from the foreseeable condition leading to
the possible contamination or pollution of the drinking water system due to the
backflow of contaminants or pollutants into the drinking water supply.
   (B)   Drinking water system surveys/inspections of the consumer’s water
distribution system(s) shall be conducted or caused to be conducted by
individuals deemed qualified by and representing Myton City Corporation. Survey
records shall indicate compliance with the state regulations. All such records
will be maintained by Myton City Corporation.
   (C)   Myton City Corporation shall schedule and notify in writing, all
consumers of the need for the periodic system survey to ensure compliance with
exiting applicable minimum health and safety standards.
   (D)   Selection of an approved backflow prevention assembly for containment
control required at the service entrance shall be determined from the results
of the system survey.
(Ord. 11122019-001, eff. 11-19-2019)
§ 56.03 RESPONSIBILITY; CUSTOMER.
   (A)   To comply with this chapter as a term and condition of water supply
and consumer’s acceptance of service is admittance of his or her awareness of
his or her responsibilities as a water system user.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to purchase, install,
and arrange testing and maintenance of any backflow prevention device/assembly
required to comply with this chapter. Failure to comply with this chapter shall
constitute grounds for discontinuation of service.
(Ord. 11122019-001, eff. 11-19-2019)
§ 56.04 RESPONSIBILITY; PLUMBING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The plumbing official’s responsibility to enforce the applicable
sections of the Plumbing Code begins at the point of service (downstream or
consumer side of the meter) and continues throughout the length of the
consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The plumbing official will review all plans to ensure that unprotected
cross connections are not an integral part of the consumer’s water system. If a
cross connection cannot be eliminated, it must be protected by the installation
of an air gap or an approved backflow prevention device/assembly, in accordance
with the Plumbing Code as adopted by the state.
(Ord. 11122019-001, eff. 11-19-2019)
§ 56.05 RESPONSIBILITY; CERTIFIED BACKFLOW TECHNICIAN, SURVEYOR OR REPAIR
PERSON.
   Whether employed by the consumer or a utility to survey, test, repair or
maintain backflow prevention assemblies the certified backflow technician,
surveyor or repair person will have the following responsibilities:
   (A)   Ensuring that acceptable testing equipment and procedures are used for
testing, repairing or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies;
   (B)   Make reports of such testing and/or repairs to the consumer and the
water purveyor on form approved for such use by the water purveyor within time
frames as described by the Division of Drinking Water;
   (C)   Include the list of materials or replacement parts being used of the
reports;
   (D)   Ensuring that replacement parts are equal in quality to parts
originally supplied by the manufacturer of the assembly being repaired;
   (E)   Not changing the design, material or operational characteristics of
the assembly during testing, repair or maintenance;
   (F)   Performing all test of the mechanical devices/assemblies and shall be
responsible for the competence and accuracy of all test and reports;
   (G)   Ensuring that his or her license is current, the testing equipment
being used is acceptable to the state, and is in proper operating condition;
   (H)   Being equipped with, and competent to use, all necessary tools,
gauges, test tags and other equipment necessary to properly test, and maintain
backflow prevention assemblies; and
   (I)   Tagging each double check valve, pressure vacuum breaker, reduced
pressure backflow assembly and high hazard air gap, showing the serial number
date tested and by whom. The certified technician’s license number must also be
on the tag.
(Ord. 11122019-001, eff. 11-19-2019)
§ 56.06 RESPONSIBILITY; REPAIR OF BACKFLOW ASSEMBLIES.
   In the case of a consumer requiring an assembly to be tested, any currently
certified backflow technician is authorized to make the test and report the
results to the consumer and the water purveyor. Any installation repair or
relocation shall be done with individuals having appropriate licensure from the
Department of Licensing.
(Ord. 11122019-001, eff. 11-19-2019)
DEFINITIONS
§ 56.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY. An assembly accepted by the Utah State
Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water, as meeting and
applicable specification or as suitable for the proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the purveyor’s public water supply will be considered as an
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor’s public potable water supply or any natural source(s) such as a well,
spring, river, stream and the like, or “used waters” or “industrial fluids”.
These waters may be contaminated or polluted or they may be objectionable and
constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water purveyor does not
have authority for sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back-
pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. Specifications for backflow prevention assemblies are contained
within the Plumbing Code as adopted by the state and in the Cross Connection
Control Program for Utah maintained by the Division of Drinking Water.
   BACK-PRESSURE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
from a region of high pressure to a region of lower pressure into the water
distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source(s) other
than the intended source.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flow or water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
under vacuum conditions into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply
system from any source(s) other than the intended source, caused by the
reduction of pressure in the potable water system.
   CONTAMINATION. A degradation of the quality of the potable water supply by
sewage industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials that
may create a health hazard.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures which may allow non-potable water or industrial fluids or other
material of questionable quality to come into contact with potable water inside
a water distribution system. This would include temporary conditions, such as
swing connections, removable sections, four way plug valves, spools, dummy
sections of pipe, swivel or change-over devices or sliding multiport tubes or
other plumbing arrangements.
   CROSS CONNECTION-CONTAINMENT. The installation of an approved backflow
assembly at the water service connection to any customer’s premises where it is
physically and economically infeasible to find permanently eliminate or control
all actual or potential cross connection within the customer’s water
distribution system; or, it shall mean the installation of an approved backflow
prevention assembly on the service line leading to and supply a portion of a
customer’s water distribution system; or, it shall mean the installation of a
portion of a customer’s water system where there are actual or potential cross
connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point
of the cross connection (isolation).
   CROSS CONNECTION-CONTROLLED. A connection between a potable water system and
a non-potable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly
properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the
protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The person designated to be in charge of the Water
Department of Myton City Corporation, is invested with the authority and
responsibility for the implementation of an effective cross connection control
program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 11122019-001, eff. 11-19-2019)
REQUIREMENTS
§ 56.35 POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed
or maintained by the water purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by state laws, regulations, codes and this chapter shall be
discontinued by the water purveyor after due process of written notifications
of violation and an appropriate time suspense for voluntary compliance, if:
         (a)   A backflow prevention assembly required by this chapter for the
control of backflow and cross connections is not installed, tested and
maintained;
         (b)   If it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been
removed or by-passed;
         (c)   If an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises; or
         (d)   If the periodic system survey has not been conducted.
      (2)   Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
   (B)   The customer’s system(s) shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the water purveyor to
determine whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of this chapter exist and to audit the results of the
required survey (R309.105.12 of the Utah Administrative Code).
   (C)   Whenever the public water purveyor deems a service connection’s water
usage contributes a sufficient hazard to the water supply, and approved
backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on the service line of the
identified consumer’s water system, at or near the property line or immediately
inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the first branch
line leading off the service line.
   (D)   The type of protective assembly required under division (C) above,
shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exist at the point of cross
connection (whether direct or indirect), applicable to local and state
requirements or resulting from the required survey.
   (E)   All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies which do not
meet the requirements of this section but were approved assemblies for the
purposes described herein at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements under division (F) below, be excluded from the requirements of
these rules so long as the water purveyor is assured that they will
satisfactorily protect the public water system. Whenever the existing is moved
from the present location or requires more than minimum maintenance or when the
water purveyor finds that the operation or of this assembly constitutes a
hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by an approved backflow prevention
assembly meeting all local and state requirements.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer at any premises where
backflow prevention assemblies are installed to have certified surveys;
inspections and operational test made at least once per year at the consumer’s
expense. In those instances where the public water purveyor deems the hazard to
be great, he or she may require certified surveys/inspections and test at a
more frequent interval. It shall be the duty of the purveyor to see that the
tests are made according to the standards set forth by the State Department of
Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water.
   (G)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested within ten working
days of installation.
   (H)   No backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed so as to create a
safety hazard. (Example: installed over an electrical panel, steam pipes,
boilers or above ceiling level.)
(Ord. 11122019-001, eff. 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 56.36 VIOLATION.
   If violation of this chapter exists if there has not been any corrective
action taken by the consumer within ten days of the written notification of the
deficiencies noted within the survey or test results, then the water purveyor
shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a
physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected the
condition(s) in conformance with all state and local regulations and statutes
relating to plumbing, safe drinking water suppliers and this chapter.
(Ord. 11122019-001, eff. 11-19-2019)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRUCKS AND TRUCK ROUTES
      
72.   OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Traffic Code adopted by reference
   
70.02   Prima facie speed; posted streets
   
70.03   Angle parking
   
70.04   Through streets; stop and yield intersections
   
70.05   Traffic control and regulatory signs
§ 70.01 TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah Traffic Code, UCA Title 41, as amended,
with a corresponding penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor or class B
misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof
shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation shall be
subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 70.02 PRIMA FACIE SPEED; POSTED STREETS.
   (A)   When appropriate traffic control or regulatory signs giving notice of
speeds are posted, the prima facie maximum speed limits designated upon said
signs shall apply to the appropriate streets or portions of streets so posted.
   (B)   In the absence of any speed limit sign designating a speed limit
applicable thereto, the prima facie speed limit shall be 25 mph.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 70.03 ANGLE PARKING.
   When appropriate traffic control or regulatory signs are posted permitting
angle parking, angle parking shall be permitted on the streets or parts of
streets so posted at the angle designated by the sign.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 70.04 THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   When appropriate traffic control or regulatory signs are posted at entrances
to intersections identifying them as stop or yield entrances, such streets are
hereby declared to be stop entrances and yield entrances as designated by said
signs.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC CONTROL AND REGULATORY SIGNS.
   The governing body shall designate the places at which appropriate traffic
control devices or regulatory signs shall be placed relating to maximum speed
limits, angle parking, through streets, stop and yield intersections and other
regulations governing traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5)
CHAPTER 71: TRUCKS AND TRUCK ROUTES
Section
   
71.01   Applicability
   
71.02   Truck routes
   
71.03   Parking of trucks
   
71.04   Noise control
§ 71.01 APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations shall apply to all trucks licensed or actually used for
gross vehicle weight in excess of 26,000 pounds, or exceeding a total length of
40 feet or longer under standard practices of the state, and for all explosive,
corrosive, hazardous materials and flammable liquid and gas carriers, and any
vehicles required to display placards.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 71.02 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Specified. The following streets are hereby designated as truck
routes, and the truck route designations are exclusive. Any large vehicle or
truck, as described in §
71.01, shall use only those routes specified herein or additional temporary
routes as shall be established by the City Council, either by written
permission upon application to deviate from the truck route, or by the posting
of temporary road signs during the period of temporary or alternate truck
routing. Any vehicle driven on any other streets than those herein designated,
which are controlled by these regulations, shall be deemed in violation of this
section. The following areas are designated truck routes:
      (1)   U.S. Highway 40;
      (2)   The street named any of the following: 100 South or Indian Highway;
      (3)   The street named any of the following: Link Street or 200 East;
      (4)   The street named any of the following: Center Street or Cooper
Street south to Duchesne County line beginning at 100 South;
      (5)   The street named 500 West and that portion of Main Street that
connects Highway 40 to the southbound intersection of 500 West; and
      (6)   Other streets as designated by express written permission of the
City Council, subject to such necessary regulations as are set forth in the
written permission in order to accommodate necessary deviation of truck traffic
from designated truck routes.
   (B)   Exception. The above truck routes shall not apply to trucks delivering
to or returning from construction sites where it is not possible to use a
designated truck route, or to school buses and for mail delivery or pick up, or
to trucks delivering merchandise to or from local businesses or local
residences or established truck terminals, or traveling to or from garages, if
said travel or delivery is made by the most direct route. Any deviation from
the designated routes must be for a legitimate business or work related
purpose. The maximum speed for trucks over posted load limit on any street not
designated as a truck route shall not exceed 20 mph.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 PARKING OF TRUCKS.
   (A)   No truck or truck trailer with a rated capacity above that described
in §
71.01 shall be allowed to be parked on the public streets in a residential area
other than the designated routes listed in §
71.02, except while actually loading or unloading merchandise. Nonregulated
streets may be utilized for resident drivers for curbside parking.
   (B)   No truck or truck trailer hauling livestock shall be parked on any
city street other than the designated routes, except while actually loading or
unloading.
   (C)   Exceptions to this section are school buses, utility maintenance
vehicles and emergency vehicles.
   (D)   Vehicles may be given special permission from the City Council, upon
appeal to the City Council, and if the City Council determines that special
permission is in the best interest of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 NOISE CONTROL.
   It shall be the responsibility of the truck operator to operate any vehicle
within the limits of the city in a courteous manner. The use of engine brakes
is not allowed within the limits of the city and all vehicle operators must
operate their vehicles in a manner which shall not disturb the peace and
tranquillity of any resident of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Specific regulations for operation of OHVs within city boundaries
   
72.03   Designation of off highway vehicle routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN TYPE I VEHICLE. Fifty inches or less in width, having an unladed
dry weight of 800 pounds or less, traveling on three or more low pressure
tires, having a seat designated to be straddled by the operator, and designed
for or capable of travel over unimproved terrain.
   ALL-TERRAIN TYPE II VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any other motor vehicle, not defined in this section designed for
or capable of travel over unimproved terrain.
      (2)   Does not include golf carts, any vehicle designed to carry a
disabled person, any vehicle not specifically designed for recreational use, or
farm tractors.
   OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE (OHV). Any snowmobile, all-terrain type I vehicle, all-
terrain type II vehicle or motorcycle.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 061115-001, passed 6-11-2015)
§ 72.02 SPECIFIC REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION OF OHVS WITHIN CITY BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   OHVs shall be operated at all times in accordance with all applicable
state, county and city traffic laws and regulations, and if equipped with
headlights shall be operated with the headlights functioning and turned on.
Further, all OHVs must be equipped with a noise control device and spark
arrester when operated on any public land, trail, street or highway of the
city. State, county and city noise regulations shall be enforced.
   (B)   The OHV is legally licensed and/or registered.
   (C)   (1)   A driver of an OHV on any public land, trail, street or highway
of the city must be 16 years of age or older and must hold a legal, valid
driver’s license or have proof of attending an off highway vehicle course.
      (2)   An owner of an OHV may not give another person who is under 16
years of age permission to operate an OHV on any public land, trail, street or
highway of the city.
   (D)   Any OHV operator or rider under 18 years of age shall wear an approved
helmet.
   (E)   The OHV is in safe running condition.
   (F)   The OHV is being operated in a safe condition.
   (G)   No OHV shall be operated on any public land, trail, street or highway
of the city at night except within one hour past official sundown and one hour
before official sunrise and must have working head and tail lights.
   (H)   The maximum speed for OHVs within the city limits shall not exceed 25
mph and must drive to the far right side of any street or highway.
   (I)   The OHV must have proof of liability insurance.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) (Ord. 061115-001, passed 6-11-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 DESIGNATION OF OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE ROUTES.
   All city streets, roads, and alleys within the city limits are allowable
routes for OHVs except for U.S. Highway 40. The following described
intersections are hereby designated as state highway crossings:
   (A)   Main Street and Highway 40;
   (B)   100 North and Highway 40; and
   (C)   300 North and Highway 40.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 061115-001, passed 6-11-2015)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violations of city regulations is guilty, punishable
as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (A)   Enforcement authority. The County Sheriff’s Department and city’s code
enforcement official is given all rights to write citations to those
individuals breaking the laws or safety guidelines as outlined in this chapter.
   (B)   Forfeit of rights. Any operator of an OHV who is issued two or more
citations within a six- month period will forfeit his or her right to operate
an OHV within the city for a period of one year.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) (Ord. 061115-001, passed 6-11-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PUBLIC HEALTH CODE
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   SMOKING
      
93.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
94.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
95.   EXCAVATIONS
      
96.   CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: PUBLIC HEALTH CODE
Section
   
90.01   State Health Code adopted by reference
   
90.02   Jurisdiction; copies on file
§ 90.01 STATE HEALTH CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Those certain laws and ordinances establishing rules and regulations for the
control and protection of public health, entitled Utah State Health Code, being
UCA Title 26, current edition, or as such may, from time to time, be amended,
are hereby approved and adopted as the public health code of the city as though
said code were copied herein in full.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 90.02 JURISDICTION; COPIES ON FILE.
   (A)   For general public health matters, the city is under the jurisdiction
of the County Health Officer, acting for the State Board of Health.
   (B)   Copies of the state and county health regulations can be examined at
the Duchesne County health office in Duchesne or Roosevelt.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Declaration of nuisances
   
91.03   Jurisdiction
   
91.04   Notice; abatement; removal
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNOYANCE. The act of annoying, or the state of being annoyed; molestation;
vexation; annoy; something or someone that causes trouble; a source of
unhappiness; a cause of irritation. That which annoys.
   AUTHOR OF NUISANCE. Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the
outgrowth of the usual, natural or necessary use of the property, the landlord
thereof, or his or her agent and all other persons having control of the
property on which such nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors
thereof and shall arise from the unusual or unnecessary use to which such
property may be put, or from businesses thereon conducted, then the occupants,
and all other persons contributing to the continuance of such nuisance, shall
be deemed the authors thereof.
   NUISANCE. Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders
soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome is declared to be a nuisance and
to be illegal. It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner, agent or
occupant to create or aid in creating or contributing to or to maintain a
nuisance.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   A crime against the order and economy of the state (or city) and
consists in unlawfully doing any act or omitting to perform any duty, which act
or omission either:
         (a)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of three or more persons;
         (b)   Offends public decency;
         (c)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake, stream, canal or basin, or any public
park, square, street or highway; or
         (d)   In any way renders three or more persons insecure in life or use
of property.
      (2)   An act which affects three or more persons in any way specified in
this definition is still a nuisance regardless of the extent of annoyance or
damage inflicted on individuals is unequal.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Public nuisances, see UCA § 76-10-803
§ 91.02 DECLARATION OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Generally. The following are hereby declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   Permitting the yard or premises, or any market, business and the
like, to remain unclean or in any condition detrimental to health;
      (2)   Permitting any garbage can, or similar receptacle, to remain on
premises which has become unclean and offensive;
      (3)   Allowing vegetable waste, garbage or refuse of any nature to
accumulate;
      (4)   Permitting the accumulation of manure in any stable, stall, corral,
yard and the like, in which any animal shall be kept;
      (5)   Having or permitting upon any premises any fly producing condition;
      (6)   Keeping any drinking vessel for shared public use;
      (7)   Permitting or performing any ablutions in or near any public
drinking fountain;
      (8)   Failing to keep alleyways clean and free from rubbish of any kind;
      (9)   Failing to furnish any public dwelling house, boarding house or
factory with lavatories as required by the State Board of Health;
      (10)   Displaying meat food products or any other article of food
intended for human consumption, except citrus fruits or vegetables whose rind
or skin must be removed before eating. Such may be displayed only as regulated
by the State Board of Health;
      (11)   Permitting any lot or excavation to become the repository of
stagnant water or any decaying or offensive substances; and
      (12)   Obstructing the streets and/or sidewalks without the permission of
the City Council.
   (B)   Disorderly houses. All bawdy and other disorderly houses, houses of
ill fame, assignation houses and house kept by, maintained for, or resorted to,
or used by one or more females for lewdness or prostitution, are hereby
declared to be public nuisances.
   (C)   Gambling houses. State law prohibits gambling and gambling devices and
as such, shall be declared to be nuisances within the city limits.
   (D)   Public nuisances. The following are declared to be a public nuisance
and are a class B misdemeanor:
      (1)   Accumulation of junk cars (JUNK herein defined as not in condition
to run, not licensed or road worthy, and having no antique value), parts of
cars or car parts, old, unusable farm machinery, worn out, unusable household
appliances and other objects creating unsightly, health and fire hazards, on
any lots, public or private, within the city;
      (2)   Storing or keeping, within public view, old, unsightly, unusable
objects, cars or car parts, or parts of cars, farm machinery, household
appliances and the like, with the intent of offering the same for sale, on any
residential lot within the city, is in violation of the zoning ordinance and
the ordinance governing business licenses. This provision does not pertain to a
resident having an annual or semiannual yard sale of household goods, nor does
it pertain to a resident parking a car on his or her lot with a “for sale” sign
on it, for a short period of time; and
      (3)   Any structure that is uninhabitable, due to age or deterioration,
and will not meet state standards, and is not economically feasible to
rehabilitate, and has no historic value, is declared a nuisance and must be
removed (if mobile), or destroyed or torn down at the request of the building
inspector, under orders from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 JURISDICTION.
   The city is under the jurisdiction of the County Health Department and has
adopted the current state health regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3)
§ 91.04 NOTICE; ABATEMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Statutes adopted. UCA §§ 10-11-1 et seq. (inspection and cleaning), is
hereby adopted by the city. In order to carry out the provisions of this
chapter, the County Health Department and the County Sheriff, or the City
Council or the Mayor, may serve notice in writing upon the owner, occupant or
agent of any lot, building or premises in or upon which any nuisance may be
found, or upon him or her who may cause the nuisance, requiring him or her to
abate the same in such manner as the official directs and within a reasonable
time to be fixed in the notice; and failure to give a notice as provided herein
shall not relieve the author of any nuisance from the obligation to abate such
nuisance or from the penalty provided for the maintenance thereof.
   (B)   Notice to property owners. It shall be the duty of such city inspector
to make careful examination and investigation, as may be provided by ordinance,
of the growth and spread of such injurious and noxious weeds, and of garbage,
refuse or unsightly or deleterious objects or structures; and it shall be his
or her duty to ascertain the names of the owners and descriptions of the
premises where such weeds, garbage, refuse, objects or structures exist, and to
serve notice in writing upon the owner or occupant of such land, either
personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner or
occupant at the last known post office address as disclosed by the records of
the County Assessor, requiring such owner or occupant, as the case may be, to
eradicate, or destroy and remove the same within such time as the inspector may
designate, which shall not be less than ten days from the date of service of
such notice. One notice shall be deemed sufficient on any lot or parcel of
property for the entire season of weed growth during that year. The inspector
shall make proof of service of such notice under oath, and file the same in the
office of the County Treasurer.
   (C)   Neglect of property owners; removal by city; costs of removal. If any
owner or occupant of lands described in such notice shall fail or neglect to
eradicate, or destroy and remove, such weeds, garbage, refuse, object or
structure upon the premises in accordance with such notice, it shall be the
duty of the inspector, at the expense of the city, to employ necessary
assistance and cause such weeds, garbage, refuse, objects or structures to be
removed or destroyed. He or she shall prepare an itemized statement of all
expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of same and shall mail a copy
thereof to the owner demanding payment within 20 days of the date of mailing.
Said notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail addressed
to the property owner’s last known address. In the event the owner fails to
make payment of the amount set forth in said statement to the City Treasurer
within said 20 days, the inspector, on behalf of the municipality, may cause
suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law or may refer the matter to
the County Treasurer as hereinafter provided. In the event collection of said
costs are pursued through the courts, the municipality may sue for and receive
judgment upon all of said costs of removal and destruction, together with
reasonable attorney fees, interest and court costs. The municipality may
execute on such judgment in the manner provided by law. In the event that the
inspector elects to refer the matter to the County Treasurer for inclusion in
the tax notice of the property owner, he or she shall make, in triplicate, an
itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of
the same and shall deliver the three copies of said statement to the County
Treasurer within ten days after the completion of the work of removing such
weeds, garbage, refuse, objects or structures.
   (D)   Costs of removal included in tax notice. Upon receipt of the itemized
statement of the cost of destroying or removing such weeds, refuse, garbage,
objects or structures, the County Treasurer shall forthwith mail one copy to
the owner of the land from which the same were removed, together with a notice
that objection in writing may be made within 30 days to the whole or any part
of the statement so filed to the county legislative body. The County Treasurer
shall at the same time deliver a copy of the statement to the Clerk of the
county legislative body. If objections to any statement are filed with the
county legislative body, they shall set a date for hearing, giving notice
thereof, and upon the hearing fix and determine the actual cost of removing the
weeds, garbage, refuse or unsightly or deleterious objects or structures, and
report their findings to the County Treasurer. If no objections to the items of
the account so filed are made within 30 days of the date of mailing such
itemized statement, the County Treasurer shall enter the amount of such
statement on the assessment rolls of the county in the column prepared for that
purpose, and likewise within ten days from the date of the action of the county
legislative body, upon objections filed, shall enter in the prepared column
upon the tax rolls the amount found by the county as the cost of removing and
destroying the said weeds, refuse, garbage or unsightly and deleterious objects
or structures. If current tax notices have been mailed, said taxes may be
carried over on the rolls to the following year. After the entry by the County
Treasurer of the costs of removing weeds, refuse, garbage or unsightly and
deleterious objects or structures, the amount so entered shall have the force
and effect of a valid judgment of the District Court, and shall be a lien upon
the lands from which the weeds, refuse, garbage or unsightly and deleterious
objects or structures were removed and destroyed, and shall be collected by the
County Treasurer at the time of the payment of general taxes. Upon payment
thereof, receipt shall be acknowledged upon the general tax receipt issued by
the County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to penalty
as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and/or the alternative hearing and
enforcement program as provided in
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5)
CHAPTER 92: SMOKING
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Prohibitions
   
92.03   Exceptions
   
92.04   Posting of signs
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY PARK. Means and includes city owned parks, public squares, ball
diamonds, golf courses, soccer fields, and other recreation areas, city owned
cemeteries and trails, city buildings and facilities, but not designated
smoking areas specified by the city.
   MASS GATHERING. An outdoor assembly of 100 or more people on city owned
property that reasonably can be expected to continue for two or more hours.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. Means and includes possession, carrying or holding a
lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette or e-cigarette of any kind, or any other lighted
smoking equipment, or the lighting or emitting or exhaling of smoke of a pipe,
cigar, cigarette or e-cigarette of any kind, or of any other lighted smoking
equipment.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1) (Ord. 090816-001, passed 9-8-2016)
§ 92.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   Smoking is hereby prohibited in city parks, light rail train stations,
within 25 feet of bus stops, and within 50 feet of mass gatherings.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) (Ord. 090816-001, passed 9-8-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   American Indian/Alaska Native ceremonies.
      (1)   A person is exempt from the restrictions of this chapter if the
person:
         (a)   Is a member of an American Indian/Alaska Native tribe whose
members are recognized as eligible for the special programs and services
provided by the United States to American Indians/Alaska Natives who are
members of those tribes;
         (b)   Is an American Indian/Alaska Native who actively practices an
American Indian/Alaska Native religion, the origin and interpretation of which
is from a traditional American Indian/Alaska Native culture;
         (c)   Is smoking tobacco using the traditional pipe of an American
Indian/Alaska Native tribal religious ceremony, of which tribe the person is a
member, and is smoking the pipe as part of that ceremony; and
         (d)   The ceremony is conducted by a pipe carrier, American Indian/
Alaska Native spiritual person, or medicine person recognized by the tribe of
which the person is a member and by the American Indian/Alaska Native
community.
      (2)   A religious ceremony using a traditional pipe under this section is
subject to any applicable state or local law, except as provided in this
section.
   (B)   First Amendment activities. A person is exempt from the restrictions
of this chapter if the person is smoking or using smoking materials to exercise
protected First Amendment activity, such as smoking or use of materials for
bona fide religious purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3) (Ord. 090816-001, passed 9-8-2016)
§ 92.04 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   “No Smoking” signs or the international “no smoking” symbol (consisting of a
pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a
red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted in every city
park. Notwithstanding this provision, the mere fact that a sign is absent or
has been removed once it has been placed as required, shall not, standing
alone, be a defense to a charge of having violated the conditions and
prohibitions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4) (Ord. 090816-001, passed 9-8-2016)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A first violation of this chapter is an infraction punishable by a
fine not to exceed $50 but not by imprisonment.
   (B)   A subsequent violation of this chapter, within two years, is a class C
misdemeanor.
   (C)   Police officers shall have the discretion to issue a “warning” if they
deem it is in the best interests of the city for the first offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-5) (Ord. 090816-001, passed 9-8-2016)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Department of Animal Control and officers
   
93.03   Licensing requirements
   
93.04   Kennels, pet shops and similar establishments
   
93.05   Domestic animals at large
   
93.06   Control of rabies and rabid animals
   
93.07   Vicious animals
   
93.08   Violations
   
93.09   Cruelty to animals
   
93.10   Impounding
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL AT LARGE. Any domesticated animal, whether or not licensed, not under
restraint, as defined in this section.
   ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment that takes in animals for
boarding for profit.
   ANIMAL GROOMING PARLOR. Any establishment maintained for the purpose of
offering cosmetological services for animals for profit.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility owned and/or operated by a governmental entity or
any animal welfare organization that is incorporated or licensed within the
state, and used for the care and custody of seized, stray, homeless,
quarantined, abandoned or unwanted dogs, cats or other small domestic animals.
   ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT. Any animal under the control of its owner or person
having charge, care, custody or control. A dog shall be considered under
control of the owner when on a leash or lead, confined within a vehicle, or
within the real property limits of the owner.
   BITE. An actual puncture, tear or abrasion of the skin inflicted by the
teeth of an animal.
   CATS. Any age feline of the domesticated types.
   CATTERY. An establishment for boarding, breeding, buying, grooming or
selling cats for profit.
   DOG. A canis familiaris over four months of age. Any canis familiaris less
than four months of age is a puppy.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMALS. Animals accustomed to living in or about the
habitation of man, including, but not limited to, cats, dogs, fowl, horses,
swine, goats and cattle.
   GUARD DOG. A working dog which must be kept in a fenced run or other
suitable enclosure during business hours, or on a leash or under absolute
control while working, so it cannot come into contact with the public.
   HOLDING FACILITY. Any pet shop, kennel, cattery, groomery, animal shelter,
humane establishment, or any other such facility used for holding animals.
   KENNEL. An establishment having four or more dogs for the purpose of
boarding, breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire, training for fee,
selling, or agricultural use such as stock herding and guarding.
   LEASH or LEAD. Any chain, rope or device used to restrain an animal.
   NEUTER. A surgical procedure performed on male animals in which its
testicles are removed.
   PET. A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility, including,
but not limited to, birds, cats, dogs, fish, hamsters, mice, and other animals
associated with man’s environment.
   PET SHOP. Any establishment containing cages or exhibition pens, not part of
a kennel or cattery, wherein dogs, cats, birds or other pets for sale are kept
or displayed.
   QUARANTINE. The isolation of an animal in a substantial enclosure so that
the animal is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized
persons.
   SPAY. A surgical procedure performed on a female animal in which its ovaries
and uterus are removed.
   STRAY. Any animal at large, as defined in this section.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which is dangerous or aggressive, including, but
not limited to, any animal which has bitten or in any other manner attacked any
person or animal.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches any
person in apparent attitude of attack upon the streets, sidewalks or any public
grounds or places;
      (2)   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack,
to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or animals;
or
      (3)   Any dog which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks
a human being or domestic animal on public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 93.02 DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL CONTROL AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   Department created. The city has created a Department of Animal
Control.
   (B)   Powers of animal control officers.
      (1)   Oath of office; enforcement. The city animal control director or
any person employed by the Department of Animal Control as an animal control
officer shall take the oath of office and shall be vested with the power and
authority to enforce this chapter.
      (2)   Impound. The animal control director (hereinafter “director”), his
or her deputies, assistants and animal control officers are hereby authorized
and empowered to apprehend and take with them and impound any animal found in
violation of this chapter and including licensable dogs for which no license
has been procured in accordance with this chapter, or any licensed or
unlicensed dogs for any other violations thereof.
      (3)   Entrance upon premises. In the enforcement of this chapter, any
peace officer or the director of animal control, or his or her assistants, are
authorized to enter onto the open premises of any person to take possession of
any dog in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Duties of animal control officers.
      (1)   Animal control director. The director shall enforce this chapter
with the help of the county’s Sheriff’s Department.
      (2)   Animal control officers. The animal control officers shall enforce
this chapter in all respects pertaining to animal control within the
jurisdiction, including the care and impounding of animals, the prevention of
cruelty to animals, and carry out all duties prescribed or delegated by the
director.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 93.03 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Dog license required. All dogs must be licensed each year, except as
otherwise provided herein, to a person of the age of 18 or older. Any person
owning, possessing or harboring any dog within the city shall obtain a license
for such animal within 30 days after the dog reaches the age of four months, or
within ten days of the acquisition of such dog or presence of such dog within
the city. For a dog under the age of six months, the Department of Animal
Control may accept certification from a licensed veterinarian that the owner
has deposited funds for spaying or neutering, then the dog may be licensed at
the reduced fee. Said initial license shall be effective for one year from the
date of purchase and must be renewed annually thereafter. License renewal
applications must be submitted annually to the Department of Animal Control,
utilizing a standard form which requests name, address and telephone number of
the applicant and the breed, sex, color and age of the animal; the form also
asks for pertinent information regarding rabies vaccinations. The application
shall be accompanied by the prescribed license fee and by a current rabies
vaccination certificate. Rabies vaccinations and certificates therefor, must be
obtained every two years, from either a licensed veterinarian or an authorized
animal control officer.
   (B)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   Dog licenses will be issued in accordance with the fee schedule
adopted by resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   No dog shall be licensed as spayed or neutered without satisfactory
proof that such surgery was performed on said dog.
   (C)   Effective; term of license. The license shall be effective one year
from the date of purchase. Licenses for the following year may be purchased
within 30 days prior to the expiration date.
   (D)   Number of dogs permitted. No person or persons at any one residence
within the jurisdiction shall at any one time own or license more than three
dogs in any combination, except as otherwise provided herein.
   (E)   License tag.
      (1)   Upon payment of the license fee, the Department of Animal Control
shall issue to the owner a certificate and tag for each dog licensed. The tag
shall have stamped thereon the license number corresponding with the tag number
on the certificate. The owner shall attach the tag to the collar or harness of
the animal and see that the collar and the tag are constantly worn. Failure to
attach the tag as provided shall be in violation of this section, except in
that dogs which are kept for show purposes are exempt from wearing the collar
and tag.
      (2)   Dog tags are not transferable from one dog to another. No refunds
shall be made on any dog license fee for any reason whatsoever. Replacements
for lost or destroyed tags shall be issued upon payment of the required fee to
the Department of Animal Control.
      (3)   Any person removing or causing to be removed the collar, harness or
tag from any licensed dog without the consent of the owner or keeper thereof,
except a licensed veterinarian or animal control officer who removes such for
medical and other reasons, shall be in violation of this section.
   (F)   Exemptions to licensing.
      (1)   The provisions of divisions (A) through (E) above shall not apply
to:
         (a)   Licensed dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily (up to
30 days) within the jurisdiction; licensed dogs whose owners remain within the
jurisdiction longer than 30 days may transfer to the local license upon payment
of the required fee and proof of current rabies vaccination; and
         (b)   Individual dogs within a properly licensed dog kennel or other
such establishment when such dogs are held for resale or agricultural use.
      (2)   The fee provisions of division (B) above shall not apply to:
         (a)   Seeing eye dogs properly trained to assist blind persons if such
dogs are actually being used by blind persons to assist them in moving from
place to place;
         (b)   Hearing dogs properly trained to assist deaf persons if such
dogs are actually used by deaf persons to aid them in responding to sounds; and
         (c)   Dogs especially trained to assist officials of government
agencies in the performance of their duties and which are owned by such
agencies.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to exempt any dog
from having a current rabies vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 KENNELS, PET SHOPS AND SIMILAR ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Kennel licenses.
      (1)   Any person wishing to operate or maintain a kennel, cattery, pet
shop or groomery must first obtain a kennel license from the Department of
Animal Control. Said kennel license shall be issued upon payment of the fee and
a statement from the Planning Department or appropriate city official that a
kennel is a permitted use under the zoning regulations in effect for the area
of the proposed kennel.
      (2)   A valid kennel license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in
each establishment and said license shall be considered as appurtenant to the
premises and not transferable to another location. The licensee shall notify
the Department of Animal Control within 30 days of any change in his or her
establishment or operation which may affect the status of his or her license.
In the event of a change in ownership of the establishment, the licensee shall
notify the Department of Animal Control immediately. Licenses shall not be
transferable from one owner to another.
      (3)   Any license issued pursuant to this division (A) shall
automatically expire on December 31, immediately following the date of issue.
During the first three months of each year, the licensee shall apply for a
renewal of the license and pay the required fee. Any application made after
March 31, except an application for a new establishment opening subsequent to
that date, shall be accompanied by a late application fee in addition to the
regular license fee.
   (B)   Standards for permitted establishments.
      (1)   Rules and regulations established. The Department of Animal Control
shall promulgate rules and regulations governing the operation of kennels,
catteries, groomeries and pet shops. Such rules and regulations shall provide
for the type of structures, buildings, pens, cages, runways or yards required
for the animal sought to be kept, harbored or confined on such premises; the
manner in which food, water and sanitation facilities will be provided to such
animals; measures relating to the health of said animals, the control of noise
and odors, and the protection of persons or property adjacent to the premises;
and other such matters as the director shall deem necessary. Such rules and
regulations shall have the effect of law, and violation of such rules and
regulations shall be deemed a violation of this section and grounds for
revocation of a license issued by the Department of Animal Control.
      (2)   Additional dogs permitted; conditions. Where permitted by the City
Council, owners of purebred dogs may obtain a license to keep up to five dogs
in a residential area provided:
         (a)   Such dogs are individually licensed;
         (b)   Such dogs are registered with a national registry (AKC, UKC,
Field Dog);
         (c)   Approval is granted by the appropriate zoning authority and
Department of Animal Control;
         (d)   Adequate runs (not necessarily concrete) are provided; and
         (e)   Other provisions of this chapter are complied with, and no dog
or premises is deemed to be a nuisance.
      (3)   Maintaining litter. The holder of a license issued under this
section may keep one litter intact until the dogs reach six months of age; one
animal from the litter may be retained until it reaches 12 months of age. At no
time may the holder of the license retain more than six dogs over six months of
age or more than five dogs over one year of age.
   (C)   Suspension or revocation of license.
      (1)   Grounds. A license may be suspended or revoked or a license
application rejected on any one or more of the following grounds:
         (a)   Falsification of facts in a license application;
         (b)   Violation of any of the provisions of this section or any other
law or regulation governing the establishment, including noise; and
         (c)   Conviction on a charge of cruelty to animals.
      (2)   Procedure. If an inspection of a kennel, cattery, groomery or pet
shop reveals a violation of this section, the inspector shall notify the
license holder or operator of such violation by means of an inspection report
form or other written notice. The notification shall:
         (a)   Set forth the specific violations found;
         (b)   Establish a specific and reasonable period of time for the
correction of the violations found; and
         (c)   State that failure to comply with any notice issued in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter may result in immediate
suspension of the license.
   (D)   Emergency suspension.
      (1)   Notice. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, when
the inspecting officer finds unsanitary or other conditions in the operation of
kennels, catteries, groomeries, pet shops or a similar establishment, which in
his or her judgment constitute a substantial hazard to public health, he or she
may, without warning or hearing, issue a written notice to the license holder
or operator citing such condition and specifying the corrective action to be
taken. Such order may state that the license is immediately suspended and all
operations are to be discontinued. Any person to whom such an order is issued
shall comply immediately therewith. Any animals at such a facility may be
confiscated by the Animal Control Department and impounded or otherwise
provided for according to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Service of notice. Notice provided for under this section shall be
deemed to have been properly served when the original of law inspection report
form or other notice has been delivered personally to the license holder or
person in charge, or such notice has been sent by certified mail to the last
known address of the license holder. A copy of such notice shall be filed with
the records of the Department of Animal Control.
   (E)   Interference with officers prohibited. It is unlawful for any person
to do any act which hinders, delays, interferes with or obstructs any animal
control officer while engaging in the discharge of their duties, including
furnishing false information to such officer.
   (F)   Fees for license. License fees for kennels, catteries, groomeries, pet
shops, veterinary clinics or hospitals shall be in such amounts as established
by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DOMESTIC ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care or custody of any
domesticated animal to allow such to be at large. Domestic animals include
horses, cattle, sheep, pigs, goats and the like.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 CONTROL OF RABIES AND RABID ANIMALS.
   (A)   Rabies vaccination required for dogs. The owner or person having the
charge, care, custody and control of a dog four months of age or over shall
have said animal vaccinated within 30 days after it reaches said age. Any
person permitting any such animal to habitually be on or remain, or be lodged
or fed within such person’s house, yard or premises shall be responsible for
said vaccination. Unvaccinated dogs over four months of age acquired by the
owner or moved into the jurisdiction must be vaccinated thereafter every 24
months with a modified virus rabies vaccine approved by the County Health
Department. This provision shall not apply to veterinarian or kennel operators
temporarily maintaining on their premises animals owned by others.
   (B)   Duties of veterinarians and tag requirements.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of each veterinarian when vaccinating any
animal for rabies to complete a certificate of rabies vaccination (in
duplicate) which includes the following information:
         (a)   Owner’s name and address;
         (b)   Description of animal (breed, sex, markings, age, name);
         (c)   Date of vaccination;
         (d)   Rabies vaccination tag number;
         (e)   Type of rabies vaccine administered; and
         (f)   Manufacturer’s serial number of vaccine.
      (2)   A copy of the certificate shall be distributed to the owner and
original retained by the issuing veterinarian. The veterinarian and the owner
shall retain their copies of the certificate for the interval between
vaccinations specified in this section. Additionally, a numbered serialized
metal or durable plastic rabies vaccination tag shall be securely attached to
the collar or harness of all dogs. A dog not wearing such tag shall be deemed
to be unvaccinated and may be impounded and dealt with pursuant to this
section.
   (C)   Transient animal exception. The provisions of this section with
respect to vaccination shall not apply to any animal owned by a person
temporarily remaining in the jurisdictions for less than 30 days. Such animals
shall be kept under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be unlawful to
bring any animal into the jurisdiction, which does not comply with animal
health laws and import regulations.
   (D)   Impoundment of animal without vaccination tag.
      (1)   Any vaccinated animal impounded because of a lack of rabies
vaccination tag may be reclaimed by its owner by furnishing proof of rabies
vaccination and payment of all impoundment fees prior to release.
      (2)   Any unvaccinated animal may be reclaimed prior to disposal by
payment of impound fees and by obtaining a rabies vaccination within 72 hours
of release.
      (3)   Any dog not reclaimed prior to the period shall be disposed of
pursuant to provision of §
93.10(C).
   (E)   Reporting of rabid animals. Any person having knowledge of the
whereabouts of an animal known to have been exposed to or suspected of having
rabies, or of an animal or person bitten by such a suspect animal, shall notify
the Department of Animal Control, the County Health Department or the State
Division of Health.
   (F)   Quarantining and disposition of biting or rabid animals.
      (1)   An animal that has rabies or shows signs of having rabies, and
every animal infected with rabies or that has been exposed to rabies, shall be
reported by the owner as is set forth in division (E) above, and shall
immediately be confined in a secure place by the owner.
      (2)   The owner of any animal of a species subject to rabies which has
bitten, shall surrender the animal to an authorized official upon demand. Any
person authorized to enforce this chapter may enter upon private property to
seize the animal; if the owner refuses to surrender the animal, the officer
shall immediately obtain a search warrant authorizing seizure and impoundment
of the animal.
      (3)   Any animal of a species subject to rabies that bites a person or
animal or is suspected of having rabies may be seized and quarantined for
observation for a period of not less than ten days by the Department of Animal
Control and/or the Health Department. The owner of the animal shall bear the
cost of confinement. The animal shelter shall be the normal place for
quarantine, but other arrangements, including confinement by the owner, may be
made by the director of animal control and/or the director of health if the
animal had a current rabies vaccination at the time the bite was inflicted or
if there are other special circumstances justifying an exception. A person who
has custody of an animal under quarantine shall immediately notify the
Department of Animal Control if the animal shows any signs of sickness or
abnormal behavior, or if the animal escapes confinement. It shall be unlawful
for any person who has custody of a quarantined animal to fail or to refuse to
allow a health or animal control officer to make an inspection or examination
during the period of quarantine. If the animal dies within ten days from the
date of the bite, the person having custody shall immediately notify the
Department or immediately remove and deliver the head to the state health
laboratory to be examined for rabies. If, at the end of the ten day period, the
director of animal control examines the animal and finds no sign of rabies, the
animal may be released to the owner or in the case of a stray, it shall be
disposed of as provided in §
93.10(C).
   (G)   Disposition and impounding of bitten animals.
      (1)   Unvaccinated bitten animals. In the case of an unvaccinated animal
species subject to rabies which is known to have been bitten by a known rabid
animal, said bitten or exposed animal should be immediately destroyed. If the
owner is unwilling to destroy the bitten or exposed animal, the animal shall be
immediately isolated and quarantined for six months under veterinary
supervision, the cost of such confinement to be paid in advance by the owner.
The animal shall be destroyed if the owner does not comply herewith.
      (2)   Vaccinated bitten animals. If the bitten or exposed animal has been
vaccinated, the animal shall be revaccinated within 24 hours and quarantined
for a period of 45 days following revaccination; or if the animal is not
revaccinated within 24 hours, the animal shall be isolated and quarantined
under veterinary supervision for six months. The animal shall be destroyed if
the owner does not comply with this division (G).
   (H)   Removal of quarantined animal. It shall be unlawful for any person to
remove any such animal from the place of quarantine without written permission
of the Department of Animal Control. It is unlawful for any person to permit,
or suffer to escape, any such animal from its place of quarantine or
impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   If any animal bites or attacks a person or animal two times or more in a 12-
month period, such animal may be immediately impounded by the Department of
Animal Control without court order and held at owner expense pending court
action. Any such animal shall be deemed a vicious animal, and the director of
animal control may seek a court order as provided in §
93.08(G) for destruction of the animal. Parties owning such animal shall, if
possible, be notified immediately of the animal’s location by the Animal
Control Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7)
§ 93.08 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful to harbor stray dogs. It shall be unlawful for any person,
except an animal welfare society incorporated within the state to harbor or
keep any lost or strayed dog. Whenever any dog shall be found which appears to
be lost or strayed, it shall be the duty of the finder to notify the Animal
Control Department within 24 hours, and the Department shall impound the dog as
herein provided.
   (B)   Dogs running at large. It shall be unlawful for the owner or person
having charge, care, custody or control of any dog to allow such dog at any
time to run at large. The owner or person charged with responsibility for a dog
found running at large shall be strictly liable for a violation of this
division (B) regardless of the precautions taken to prevent the escape of the
dog and regardless of whether or not he or she knows that the dog is running at
large. A dog is deemed “at large” unless personally controlled by leash or lead
in condominium common areas, public parks, parking lots open to public, ski
areas, golf courses and shopping centers.
   (C)   Dogs on unenclosed premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to
chain, stake out or tether any dog on any unenclosed premises in such a manner
that the animal may go beyond the property line, unless such person has
permission of the owner of the affected property.
   (D)   Female dogs in heat. Any owner or person having charge, care, custody
or control of any female dog in heat shall, in addition to restraining such dog
from running at large, cause such dog to be constantly confined in a building
or secure enclosure so as to prevent it from coming into contact with other
dogs and creating a nuisance, except for planned breeding.
   (E)   Places prohibited to dogs; exemptions. It shall be unlawful for any
person to take or permit any dogs, whether loose or on a leash or in arms, in
or about any establishment or place of business where food or food products are
sold or displayed, including, but not limited to, restaurants, grocery stores,
meat markets, and fruit or vegetable stores. It shall be unlawful for any
person keeping, harboring or having charge or control of any dog to allow said
dog to be within any watershed area so designated by ordinance or otherwise
legally appointed, either now existing or to be defined in the future, or on
any construction site of a building, building improvement, road, utility, or
other construction site during any time when actual construction or excavation
activity is taking place. This division (E) shall not apply to dogs provided
for in §
93.03(F)(2).
   (F)   Dogs attacking persons and animals.
      (1)   Attacking dogs. It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having
charge, care, custody or control of any dog to allow such dog to attack, chase
or worry any person, any domestic animal having a commercial value, or any
species of protected wildlife, or to attack domestic fowl. WORRY, as used in
this division (F)(1), shall mean to harass by tearing, biting or shaking with
the teeth, or without provocation to chase or approach any person in an
apparent attitude of attack when such person is in a place where he or she has
a right to be.
      (2)   Owner liability. The owner in violation of division (F)(1) above
shall be strictly liable for violation of this division (F)(2). In addition to
being subject to prosecution under division (F)(1) above, the owner of such dog
shall also be liable in damages to any person injured or to the owner of any
animals injured or destroyed thereby.
      (3)   Defenses. The following shall be considered in mitigating the
penalties or damages or in dismissing the charge:
         (a)   The dog was properly confined on the premises; and
         (b)   The dog was deliberately or maliciously provoked.
      (4)   Dogs may be killed. Any person may kill a dog while it is
committing any of the acts specified in division (F)(1) above, or while such
dog is being pursued thereafter.
   (G)   Fierce, dangerous or vicious animals; court order. It shall be
unlawful for the owner of any fierce, dangerous or vicious animal to permit
such animal to go or be off the premises of the owner unless such animal is
under restraint and properly muzzled so as to prevent it from injuring any
person or property. Every animal so vicious and dangerous that it cannot be
controlled by reasonable restraints, and every dangerous and vicious animal not
effectively controlled by its owner or person having charge, care or control of
such animal so that it shall not injure any person or property, is a hazard to
public safety, and the director of animal control shall seek a court order for
destruction of or muzzling of the animal.
   (H)   Nuisance animals. Any owner or person having charge, care, custody or
control of an animal or animals causing a “nuisance”, as defined in this
division (H), shall be in violation of this division (H) and subject to the
penalties provided herein. The following shall be deemed a nuisance:
      (1)   Causes damages to the property of anyone other than its owner;
      (2)   Is a “vicious animal”, as defined herein and kept contrary to
division (G) above;
      (3)   Causes unreasonable fouling of the air by odors that can be
detected at the nearest adjoining residence;
      (4)   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings;
      (5)   Defecates on any public sidewalk, park or building, or on any
private property without the consent of the owner of such private property,
unless the person owning, having a proprietary interest in, harboring or having
care, charge, control, custody or possession of such animal shall remove any
such defecation to a proper trash receptacle;
      (6)   Barks, whines or howls or makes other disturbing noises in an
excessive, continuous or untimely fashion;
      (7)   Attacks other domestic animals;
      (8)   Is determined by the Department of Animal Control or the County
Health Department to be offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or
welfare; and
      (9)   Any animals, which, by virtue of the number maintained, are
determined by the Department of Animal Control or the County Health Department
to be offensive or dangerous to the public health, welfare or safety.
   (I)   Violation; revocation of dog license. If the owner of any dog is found
to be in violation of this section on three or more different occasions during
any 12-month period, the director of animal control may seek a court order
revoking for a period of one year any dog license such person may possess and
providing for the Animal Control Department to pick up and impound any dog kept
by the person under such order. Any dog impounded pursuant to such an order
shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for
impounded animals, except that the person under the order of revocation shall
not be allowed to redeem the dog under any circumstances.
   (J)   Bites; duty to report.
      (1)   Any person having knowledge of any individual or animal having been
bitten by an animal of a species subject to rabies shall report the incident
immediately to the Department of Animal Control or County Sheriff’s office.
      (2)   The owner of an animal that bites a person and any person bitten by
an animal shall report the bite to the Department of Animal Control or the
Health Department within 24 hours of the bite, regardless of whether or not the
biting animal is of a species subject to rabies.
      (3)   A physician or other medical personnel who renders professional
treatment to a person bitten by an animal shall report the fact that he or she
has rendered professional treatment to the Department of Animal Control or the
County Health Department within 24 hours of his or her first professional
attendance. He or she shall report the name, sex and address of the person
bitten as well as the type and location of the bite. If known, he or she shall
give the name and address of the owner of the animal that inflicted the bite,
and any other facts that may assist the Department of Animal Control in
ascertaining the immunization status of the animal.
      (4)   Any person treating an animal bitten, injured or mauled by another
animal shall report the incident to the Department of Animal Control. The
report shall contain the name and address of the owner of the wounded, injured
or bitten animal, the name and address of the owner, a description of the
animal that caused the injury, and the location of the incident.
      (5)   Any person not conforming to the requirements of this division (J)
shall be in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Physical abuse. It is unlawful for any person to willfully or
maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, torture, beat with a stick, chain, club or
other object, mutilate, burn or scald, overdrive or otherwise cruelly set upon
any animal. Each offense shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   Confinement in vehicle. It is unlawful for any person to carry or
confine any animal in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner,
including, but not limited to, carrying or confining such animal without
adequate ventilation or for an unusual length of time.
   (C)   Care and maintenance. It shall be the duty of any person to provide
any animal in his or her charge or custody, as owner or otherwise, with
adequate food, drink, care (which shall include veterinary care) and shelter.
   (D)   Animal poisoning. It shall be unlawful for any person by any means to
make accessible to any animal, with intent to cause harm or death, any
substance that has in any manner been treated or prepared with any harmful or
poisonous substance. This provision shall not be interpreted so as to prohibit
the use of poisonous substances for the control of vermin in the furtherance of
the public health when applied in such a manner as to reasonably prohibit
access to other animals.
   (E)   Injury to animals by motorists.
      (1)   Every operator of a motor or other self-propelled vehicle upon the
streets of the jurisdiction shall immediately upon injuring, striking, maiming
or running down any domestic animal give such aid as can reasonably be
rendered. In the absence of the owner, he or she shall immediately notify the
Animal Control Department, furnishing requested facts relative to such injury.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of such operator to remain at or near the
scene until such time as the appropriate authorities arrive, and upon the
arrival of such authorities, the operator shall immediately identify himself or
herself to such authorities. Alternatively, in the absence of the owner, a
person may give aid by taking the animal to the animal control facility or
other appropriate facility and notifying the Animal Control Department. Such
animal may be taken in by the animal control facility and dealt with as deemed
appropriate under the circumstances.
      (3)   Emergency vehicles are exempted from the requirements of this
provision.
   (F)   Animals for fighting. See UCA §§ 76-9-301.1, 76-9-301.5 and 76-9-
301.6.
   (G)   Malicious impounding. It shall be unlawful for any person maliciously
to secrete or impound the animal of another.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Animals to be impounded. The director shall place all animals which he
or she takes into custody in a designated animal impound facility. The
following animals may be taken into custody by the director and impounded
without filing a complaint:
      (1)   Any animal being kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of
this chapter;
      (2)   Any animal running at large contrary to the provisions of this
chapter;
      (3)   Any animal, which is by this chapter required to be licensed and is
not licensed. An animal not wearing a tag shall be presumed to be unlicensed
for purposes of this section;
      (4)   Sick or injured animals whose owner cannot be located;
      (5)   Any abandoned animal;
      (6)   Animals which are not vaccinated for rabies in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter;
      (7)   Any animal to be held for quarantine; and
      (8)   Any vicious animal not properly confined as required by §
93.08(G).
   (B)   Records of impound maintained. Complete records shall be kept for all
impounded animals by the impounding facility.
   (C)   Disposition of animals.
      (1)   Licensed animals shall be impounded for a minimum of five working
days before further disposition, except as otherwise provided herein.
Reasonable effort shall be made to notify the owner of any animal wearing a
license or other identification during that time. Notice shall be deemed given
when sent to the last known address of the listed owner. Any animal voluntarily
relinquished to the animal control facility by the owner thereof for
destruction or other disposition need not be kept for the minimum holding
period before release or other disposition as herein provided.
      (2)   No dog or cat shall be released for adoption until such dog or cat
is spayed or neutered, unless payment for such spaying or neutering is
deposited with animal control and the person to whom the dog or cat is released
agrees, in writing, to cause such dog or cat to be spayed or neutered. Such
agreement shall provide that the purchaser will have the dog or cat spayed or
neutered within 120 days of the date of purchase. Failure to spay or neuter
such dog or cat shall be deemed a breach of the adoption contract and shall
result in its termination, return of the dog or cat, and forfeiture of all
amounts paid to animal control. All adoptions are conditional until the animal
is spayed or neutered.
      (3)   All dogs, except for those quarantined or confined by court order,
held longer than the minimum impound period, and all dogs voluntarily
relinquished to the impound facility, may be destroyed or sold as the impound
facility shall direct. Any healthy dog may be sold to any person desiring to
purchase such animal for a price to be determined by the impound facility, but
not to exceed the fee set by the city, plus license, rabies vaccination and/or
spaying or neutering fees, if required.
      (4)   Any licensed animal impounded and having or suspected of having
serious physical injury or contagious disease requiring medical attention may
be released to the care of a veterinarian with the consent of the owner.
      (5)   When, in the judgment of the director, it is determined that an
animal should be destroyed for humane reasons or to protect the public from
imminent danger to persons or property, such animal may be destroyed without
regard to any time limitations otherwise established herein, and without court
order.
   (D)   Redemption of impounded animal.
      (1)   The owner of any impounded animal or his or her authorized
representative may redeem such animal before disposition, provided he or she
pays:
         (a)   The impound fee;
         (b)   The daily board charge;
         (c)   Veterinary costs incurred during the impound period, including
rabies vaccination; and
         (d)   License fee, if required.
      (2)   No impound fee will be charged to the reporting owners of suspected
rabid animals if they comply with §
93.06(F).
   (E)   Impound fees for voluntary relinquishment by owner. Whenever any dog
is voluntarily relinquished by the owner thereof to the animal control facility
for destruction or other disposition as provided by division (D) above, a fee
shall be paid by such owner in such amount as established by resolution of the
City Council.
   (F)   Animal shelter provided. The governing authority shall provide
suitable premises and facilities to be used as an animal shelter where
impounded small animals can be adequately kept. They shall purchase and supply
food and supply humane care for impounded animals. The governing authority
shall provide for the painless and humane destruction of dogs and other animals
required to be destroyed by this chapter or by the laws of the state. The
governing authority may furnish, when necessary, medical treatment for such
animals as may be impounded pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-10)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to penalty
as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and/or the alternative hearing and
enforcement program as provided in
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-11)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
94.01   Obstruction of sidewalks
   
94.02   Receiving goods
   
94.03   Driving or riding on sidewalks
   
94.04   Businesses to sweep sidewalks
   
94.05   Littering and depositing material
   
94.06   Conducting business prohibited; exception
   
94.07   Streamers and signs
§ 94.01 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct sidewalks in any manner by any person or
vehicle, or prevent the free use and free passage over and upon the same, or
any part thereof, without permission of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 RECEIVING GOODS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person receiving or delivering goods to
obstruct sidewalks with same or to allow goods or merchandise to remain on such
sidewalk for a period longer than one hour.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 DRIVING OR RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a self-propelled vehicle, or
lead, drive or ride any animal upon any sidewalk, except across a sidewalk at
established crossings.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 BUSINESSES TO SWEEP SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owners or occupants of places of business
within the city to fail to cause the sidewalk abutting thereon to be kept
clean.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 LITTERING AND DEPOSITING MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally or carelessly to throw,
cast, put into, drop or leave in any street, gutter, sidewalk or public place
any stones, gravel, sand, coal, dirt, manure, garbage, leaves, lawn or hedge
clippings or rubbish of any kind or any other substance which shall render such
highway unsafe or unsightly or shall interfere with travel thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 CONDUCTING BUSINESS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on any business on
any street, alley or sidewalk or in or from any automobile, vehicle, stand or
structure located in or upon the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city;
provided, however, this section shall not prohibit any business or occupation
licensed or permitted under the ordinances of the city. This section does not
pertain to an occasional yard sale or holiday concession stand, which is
permitted by the city without license.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07 STREAMERS AND SIGNS.
   Permission to suspend streamers over any public street shall be obtained
from the governing body, who will designate the height above the street and how
long it may remain. Permanent signs shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the building code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Permit required; basis for issuance
   
95.03   Application requirements
   
95.04   Emergency work
   
95.05   Fees for permit
   
95.06   Contents of permit; duration, extensions
   
95.07   Transfer or assignment of permit
   
95.08   Compliance with specifications, standards, traffic control regulations;
site permittee identification
   
95.09   Other highway permits
   
95.10   Relocation of structures in public ways
   
95.11   Impact on existing improvements
   
95.12   Restoration of public property
   
95.13   Insurance requirements
   
95.14   Bond; when required, conditions, warranty
   
95.15   Hold harmless agreement; limitations on city liability
   
95.16   Work without permit
   
95.17   Failure to comply; default in performance
   
95.18   Failure to conform to design standards
   
95.19   Appeal of suspension, revocation or stop order
   
95.20   Tampering with traffic barricades
   
95.21   Conflict with governing provisions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person who makes application for a permit.
   BUSINESS. Any place in the city in which there is conducted or carried on
principally or exclusively any pursuit or occupation for the purpose of gaining
a livelihood.
   CITY. Myton City Corporation, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer, or his or her authorized representative.
   EMERGENCY. Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of
which constitutes an immediate danger to persons or property, or which causes
interruption of utility or public services.
   ENGINEERING REGULATIONS, REGULATIONS, SPECIFICATIONS AND/OR DESIGN
STANDARDS. The latest version of the engineering regulations, specifications,
design standards or criteria published or adopted by the City Engineer.
   FAILURE. A work site restoration which fails to meet City Engineer
specifications, or which results in a deteriorated or substandard condition
within the duration of the warranty period. FAILURE may be settlement of
surfaces, deterioration of materials, or other surface irregularities.
Measurement of FAILURE shall be further defined in the engineering regulations.
   INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the rights-of-way.
   OPERATOR. Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system
and directly or through one or more affiliates owns a controlling interest in
such system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of
such a system.
   PERMITTEE. Any person which has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed
to fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, firm, association, provider,
corporation, company, organization or entity of any kind.
   PIPE DRIVEWAY. A driveway approach which uses a pipe or other means to
bridge the gutter.
   PRIVATE DRAIN LINE. A pipe installed solely for the transmission of water
collected or generated on private property such as drainage, spring or storm
water, or condensate into the public drainage system.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Person or persons who have legal title to property and/or
equitable interest in the property, or the ranking official or agent of a
company having legal title to property and/or equitable interest in the
property.
   PROVIDER. An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, system lessee or
public utility company.
   PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY. Any company subject to the jurisdiction of the Utah
State Public Service Commission, or any mutual corporation providing gas,
electricity, water, telephone or other utility product or services for use by
the general public.
   PUBLIC WAY. All public rights-of-way and easements, public footpaths,
walkways and sidewalks, public streets, public roads, public highways, public
alleys and public drainageways. It does not, however, include utility easements
not within public ways of the city.
   RESELLER. Any person that provides service over a system for which a
separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying
system used for the transmission and does not install any system in the rights-
of-way.
   RESIDENT. The person or persons currently making their home at a particular
dwelling.
   STORM DRAIN. A dedicated pipe, conduit, waterway or ditch installed in a
right-of-way or easement for the transmission of storm and drainage water. This
term does not include private drain lines.
   SYSTEM LESSEE. Any person that leases a system or a specific portion of a
system to provide services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM or SYSTEM. All conduits, manholes, poles,
antennas, transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment,
wire and appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider located in the
construction, ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications
system.
   WORK SITE RESTORATION. The restoring of the original ground or paved hard
surface area to comply with engineering regulations, and includes, but is not
limited to, repair, cleanup, backfilling, compaction and stabilization, paving
and other work necessary to place the site in acceptable condition following
the conclusion of the work, or the expiration or revocation of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 95.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; BASIS FOR ISSUANCE.
   Any person desiring to perform work of any kind in a public way within the
city, shall make application for a permit. The decision by the city to issue a
permit shall include, among other factors determined by the city, the
following:
   (A)   The capacity of the public way to accommodate the facilities or
structures proposed to be installed in the public way;
   (B)   The capacity of the public way to accommodate multiple wire in
addition to cables, conduits, pipes or other facilities or structures of other
users of the public way, such as electrical power, telephone, gas, sewer and
water;
   (C)   The damage or disruption, if any of public or private facilities,
improvements or landscaping previously existing in the public way; and
   (D)   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction from numerous excavations of the public way.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 95.03 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Form of application. Application for a permit shall be filed with the
City Engineer on a form or forms to be furnished by the city. Property owners
and/or tenants for whom work is being done shall be responsible for obtaining
the permits; provided, however, contractors may obtain the permit in the
contractor’s name.
   (B)   Eligible persons. No person shall be eligible to apply for or receive
permits to do work within the public ways of the city, save and except the
following:
      (1)   Contractors licensed by the state as general contractors;
      (2)   Providers;
      (3)   Property owners installing, replacing or maintaining less than 500
square feet or 100 linear feet of sidewalk, curb and gutter, or driveway
approach, or other work approved by the City Engineer, upon a portion of the
public way adjacent to their residence; or
      (4)   Persons offering a service which requires occupation of the public
way, such as scaffold or staging, staging of a crane, installation or
maintenance of electric signs, glass, awnings, and painting or cleaning of
buildings or sign boards or other structures.
   (C)   Denial based on past performance. The City Engineer may deny the
issuance of permits to contractors, utility companies or other permit
applicants who have shown by past performance that in the opinion of the City
Engineer they will not consistently conform to the engineering regulations,
specifications, design standards or the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Filing of plans may be required. When necessary, in the judgment of
the City Engineer, to fully determine the relationship of the work proposed to
existing or proposed facilities within the public ways, or to determine whether
the work proposed complies with the engineering regulations, construction
specifications and design standards, the City Engineer may require the filing
of engineering plans, specifications and sketches showing the proposed work in
sufficient detail to permit determination of such relationship or compliance,
or both, and the application shall be deemed suspended until such plans and
sketches are filed and approved.
   (E)   Approval required prior to commencement. It shall be unlawful for any
person to commence work upon any public way until the City Engineer has
approved the application and until a permit has been issued for such work,
except as specifically approved to the contrary in this chapter.
   (F)   Appeal. The disapproval or denial of an application by the City
Engineer may be appealed by the applicant to the City Council by filing of a
written notice of appeal within ten days of the action of the City Engineer.
The City Council shall hear such appeal, if written request therefor be timely
filed as soon as practicable, and render its decision within two weeks
following notice of such appeal.
   (G)   Limited authority of City Engineer. In approving or disapproving work
within any public way, or permits therefor, in the inspection of such work, in
reviewing plans, sketches or specifications, and generally in the exercise of
the authority conferred upon him or her by this chapter, the City Engineer
shall act in such manner as to preserve and protect the public way and the use
thereof, but shall have no authority to govern the actions or inaction of
permittees and applicants or other persons which have no relationship to the
use, preservation or protection of the public way.
   (H)   Exceptions to permit requirements.
      (1)   It shall be lawful for a city, county, state, federal or other
government employee to perform routine maintenance work, not involving
excavations, without first having obtained a permit therefor.
      (2)   A permit is not required from the City Engineer for hand digging
excavations for installation or repair of sprinkler systems and landscaping
within the nonpaved areas of the public way. However, conformance to all city
specifications is required.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 EMERGENCY WORK.
   (A)   Any person maintaining pipes, lines or facilities in the public way
may proceed with work upon existing facilities without a permit when emergency
circumstances demand the work to be done immediately; provided a permit could
not reasonably and practicably have been obtained beforehand.
   (B)   In the event that emergency work is commenced on or within any public
way of the city during regular business hours, the City Engineer shall be
notified within one-half hour from the time the work is commenced. The person
commencing and conducting such work shall take all necessary safety precautions
for the protection of the public and the direction and control of traffic, and
shall ensure that work is accomplished according to City Engineering
regulations, the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and other applicable
laws, regulations or generally recognized practices in the industry.
   (C)   Any person commencing emergency work in the public way during other
than business hours without a permit shall immediately thereafter apply for a
permit or give notice during the first hour of the first regular business day
on which city offices are open for business after such work is commenced. A
permit for such emergency work may be issued which shall be retroactive to the
date when the work was begun, at the discretion of the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 95.05 FEES FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Required. The city shall charge and the permittee shall pay upon
issuance of the permit, fees for costs associated with the work performed under
the permit as outlined in the consolidated fee schedule. Such costs could
include costs for reviewing the project and issuing the permit, inspections of
the project, deterioration of the public way or diminution of the useful life
of the public way, and other costs to the city associated with the work to be
done under the permit. All costs shall be assessed in a nondiscriminatory
manner.
   (B)   Waiver. The City Engineer may waive permit fees or penalties or
portion thereof provided for in this chapter, when he or she determines that
such permit fee or penalty:
      (1)   Pertains to construction or rehabilitation of housing for persons
whose income is below the median income level for the city; or
      (2)   Pertains to an encroachment on the public way involving a
beautification project which furthers specific goals and objectives set forth
in the city strategic plan, master plan or other official documents, including
decorative street lighting, building facade lighting, flower and planter boxes,
and landscaping.
   (C)   Additional charges. Additional charges to cover the reasonable cost
and expenses of any required engineering review, inspection and work site
restoration associated with each undertaking may be charged by the city to each
permittee, in addition to the permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5)
§ 95.06 CONTENTS OF PERMIT; DURATION, EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Starting and completion date. Each permit application shall state the
starting date and estimated completion date. Work shall be completed within
five days from the starting date or as determined by the City Engineer. Such
determination shall be based upon factors reasonably related to the work to be
performed under the permit. Such factors may include, in addition to other
factors related to the work to be performed, the following:
      (1)   The scope of work to be performed under the permit;
      (2)   Maintaining the safe and effective flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on the public way affected by the work;
      (3)   Protecting the existing improvements to the public way impacted by
the work;
      (4)   The season of the year during which the work is to be performed, as
well as the current weather and its impact on public safety and the use of the
public way by the public; and
      (5)   Use of the public way for extraordinary events anticipated by the
city.
   (B)   Notification of commencement. The City Engineer shall be notified by
the permittee of commencement of the work within 24 hours prior to commencing
work. The permit shall be valid for the time period specified in the permit.
   (C)   Application for extension.
      (1)   If the work is not completed during such period, prior to the
expiration of the permit, the permittee may apply to the City Engineer for an
additional permit or an extension, which may be granted by the City Engineer
for good cause shown.
      (2)   The length of the extension requested by the permittee shall be
subject to the approval of the City Engineer. No extension shall be made that
allows work to be completed in the winter period without payment of winter
fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6)
§ 95.07 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF PERMIT.
   Permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not be
performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the permit.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting the work
to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of the
permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work under
the permit, and for all bonding, insurance and other requirements of this
chapter and under said permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 95.08 COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS, STANDARDS, TRAFFIC CONTROL REGULATIONS;
SITE PERMITTEE IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Compliance required. The work performed in the public way shall
conform to the requirements of the engineering regulations, design standards,
construction specifications and traffic control regulations of the city, copies
of which shall be available from the City Engineer, kept on file in the office
of the City Recorder and be open to public inspection during office hours.
   (B)   Signage. Where a job site is left unattended, before completion of the
work, signage with minimum two-inch high letters shall be attached to a
barricade or otherwise posted at the site, indicating the permittee’s name, or
company name, telephone number and after hours telephone number.
   (C)   Minimization of interference or interruption. All excavations shall be
conducted in a manner resulting in a minimum amount of interference or
interruption of street or pedestrian traffic. Inconvenience to residents and
businesses fronting on the public way shall be minimized.
   (D)   Barricades.
      (1)   Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades and/or other
structures will be available and used where necessary to prevent accidents
involving property or persons. Barricades must be in place until all of the
permittee’s equipment is removed from the site and the excavation has been
backfilled and proper temporary gravel surface is in place, except where
backfilling and resurfacing is to be done by the city; in which case the
barricades, together with any necessary lights, flares or torches, must remain
in place until the backfill work is actually commenced by the city.
      (2)   From sunset to sunrise, all barricades and excavations must be
clearly outlined by adequate signal lights, torches and the like. The Police
Department and Fire Department shall be notified at least 24 hours in advance
of any planned excavation requiring street closure or traffic detour.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8)
§ 95.09 OTHER HIGHWAY PERMITS.
   (A)   Scope. Holders of permits for work on highways owned or under the
jurisdiction of other government entities, but located within the city limits,
shall not be required to obtain permits from the city under the provisions of
this chapter, unless the work extends beyond the back side of the curb, or
beyond any other designated jurisdictional boundary. Any city permit shall not
be construed to permit or allow work on a county road or a state highway within
the city without an applicable county or state permit.
   (B)   City right of regulation limited. The City Engineer, in his or her
discretion, shall have the right and authority to regulate work under permits
issued by other governmental entities with respect to hours and days of work,
and measures required to be taken by the permittee of said governmental entity
for the protection of traffic and safety of persons and property.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
impose any duty, implied or express, on the city or its employees, officers,
agents or assigns, relative to the protection of traffic and safety of persons
or property, arising out of the issuance of any permit issued by government
entities other than the city, or arising out of any work performed on any
public way owned or within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9)
§ 95.10 RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Required. The City Engineer may direct any person owning or
maintaining facilities or structures in the public way to alter, modify or
relocate such facilities or structures as the City Engineer may require as set
forth herein. Sewers, pipes, drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe driveways, vaults,
trash receptacles and overhead and underground gas, electric, telephone,
telecommunication and communication facilities shall specifically be subject to
such directives. The person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
shall, at his or her own cost and expense and upon reasonable written notice by
the city, promptly protect, or promptly alter or relocate such facilities or
structures, or part thereof, as directed by the city. In the event that such
person refuses or neglects to conform to the directive of the city, the city
shall have the right to break through, remove, alter or relocate such part of
the facilities or structures without liability to such person. Such person
shall pay to the city all costs incurred by the city in connection with such
work performed by the city, including also design, engineering, construction,
materials, insurance, court costs and attorney fees.
   (B)   Considerations for directives. Any directive by the City Engineer
shall be based upon of the following:
      (1)   The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being
maintained contrary to law, or determined by the City Engineer to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      (2)   The facility or structure constitutes a “nuisance”, as defined
under state statute;
      (3)   The permit under which the facility or structure was installed has
expired or has been revoked;
      (4)   The public way is about to be repaired or improved and such
facilities or structures may pose a hindrance to construction; or
      (5)   The grades or lines of the public way are to be altered or changed.
   (C)   Consistent with police power of city. Any directive of the City
Engineer under this section shall be under and consistent with the city’s
police power. Unless an emergency condition exists, the City Engineer shall
make a good faith effort to consult with the person regarding any condition
that may result in a removal or relocation of facilities in the public way to
consider possible avoidance or minimization of removal or relocation
requirements and provide the directive as far enough in advance of the required
removal or relocation to allow the person a reasonable opportunity to plan and
minimize cost associated with the required removal or relocation.
   (D)   Exception. This obligation does not apply to facilities or structures
originally located on private property pursuant to a private easement, which
property was later incorporated into the public way, if that prior private
easement grants a superior vested right.
   (E)   Failure to comply; penalty. Any person owning or maintaining
facilities or structures in the public way who fails to alter, modify or
relocate such facilities or structures upon notice to do so by the City
Engineer, may be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and/or the alternative hearing and
enforcement program as provided in
Chapter 11 of this code of this code of ordinances. All costs of alteration,
modification or relocation shall be borne by the person owning or maintaining
the facilities or structures involved.
   (F)   Emergency conditions. The city may, at any time, in case of fire,
disaster or other emergency, as determined by the city in its reasonable
discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and appurtenances on, over or
under the public way, in which event the city shall not be liable therefor to a
person. The city shall notify a person in writing prior to, if practicable, but
in any event as soon as possible and in no case later than the next business
day following any action taken under this division (F).
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 IMPACT ON EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Temporary improvements. If any sidewalk or curb ramp is blocked by
excavation work, a temporary sidewalk or curb ramp shall be constructed or
provided. Said temporary improvement shall be safe for travel and convenient
for users, and consistent with city standards for such.
   (B)   Surface replacement. Where excavations are made in paved areas, the
surface shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface until such time as
the permanent repairs are completed.
   (C)   Restoration.
      (1)   At any time a permittee disturbs the yard, residence or the real or
personal property of a private property owner or the city, such permittee shall
ensure that such property is returned, replaced and/or restored to a condition
that is comparable to the condition that existed prior to the commencement of
the work.
      (2)   The costs associated with the disturbance and the return,
replacement and/or restoration shall be borne by the permittee. Further, a
permittee shall reimburse a property owner or the city, for any actual damage
caused by the permittee, its subcontractor, or its independent contractor, in
connection with the disturbance of such property. However, nothing in this
division (C) shall require the permittee to pay a subscriber or private
property owner when that subscriber or private property owner requests that the
permittee remove, replace or relocate improvements associated with the service
provided by the permittee to the property owner and when the permittee
exercises due care in the performance of that service, or when the subscriber
or private property owner provided false information to the permittee on which
the permittee relied to its detriment.
   (D)   Included restorations. Examples of types of acts specifically included
in this section are the following:
      (1)   Removal of sod, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, trees, driveways or
fence, or to install, trench, repair, replace, remove or locate, equipment,
cable or other appurtenances of the permittee;
      (2)   Installation or removal of equipment or other appurtenances of the
permittee’s system within a private property owner’s property or residence
which requires drilling, excavating, plastering, or the like on the part of the
permittee;
      (3)   Temporarily relocating or moving a piece of personal property or a
fixture of a private property owner (such as a motor vehicle, fence, air
conditioning, heating unit, or the like) in order to perform some sort of
construction, maintenance or repair by the permittee; or
      (4)   Permanently removing a permittee’s equipment or other appurtenances
due to the revocation, termination or nonrenewal of the franchise (if
applicable).
   (E)   Drainage channels. Existing drainage channels, such as gutters or
ditches, shall be kept free of dirt or other debris so that natural flow will
not be interrupted. When it is necessary to block or otherwise interrupt flow
of the drainage channel, a method of rerouting the flow must be submitted for
approval by the City Engineer prior to the blockage of the channel.
   (F)   Applicability to subcontractors and independent contractors. The
requirements imposed upon the permittee extend to any subcontractor or
independent contractor that the permittee might employ to perform the tasks
pursuant to the permit.
   (G)   Exceptions. The requirements of this section shall not apply to the
removal by a permittee of a permanent structure placed by a property owner in a
public way, unless such property owner has received prior written permission
from the city granting the property owner the right to install a permanent
structure in a public way, and such written permission has been recorded in the
office of the County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-11) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Required. The permittee shall, at its own expense, restore the surface
of any public way to its original condition and replace any removed or damaged
pavement with the same type and depth of pavement as that which is adjoining,
including the gravel base material. All restoration shall conform to the
engineering regulations, design standards and specifications promulgated by the
city and shall be accomplished within the time limits set forth in the permit,
unless additional time is granted in writing by the Department.
   (B)   Request of city to restore. At its option, the permittee doing the
actual excavation work may request that the city restore the surface to its
original condition. The fee for such resurfacing shall be determined by the
City Engineer in accordance with its reasonable costs for such work and shall
be charged to the person, firm or corporation making the excavation. Payment
for said work shall be received by the city prior to the release of the bond.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-12)
§ 95.13 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Limits specified. Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall
furnish to the city evidence that such applicant has a comprehensive general
liability and property damage policy that includes contractual liability
coverage endorsed with the following limits and provisions or with such
alternative limits and provisions as may be approved by the city.
      (1)   A minimum of $1,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence for
bodily injury, personal injury and property damage, and not less than
$1,000,000 in the aggregate. The general aggregate limit shall apply separately
to the permit, or the general aggregate limit shall be two times the required
occurrence limit. The coverage shall be in the nature of broad form commercial
general liability coverage. The City Attorney may increase or decrease minimum
insurance limits, depending on the potential liability of any project.
      (2)   All policies shall include the city, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers and assigns, as insureds. Any reference to the
“city” shall include the city, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers and assigns.
      (3)   The coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the city, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers and assigns. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns shall be in excess of the permittee’s insurance
and shall not contribute to or with it.
      (4)   Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall
not effect coverage provided to the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns.
      (5)   Coverage shall state that the permittee’s insurance shall apply
separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought,
except with respect to the limits of the insurer’s liability.
      (6)   Underwriters shall have no right of recovery or subrogation against
the city, it being the intent of the parties that the insurance policy so
effected shall protect both parties and be primary coverage for any and all
losses covered by the described insurance.
      (7)   The insurance companies issuing the policy or policies shall have
no recourse against the city for payment of any premiums due or for any
assessments under any form of any policy.
      (8)   Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to state that the coverage
shall not be suspended, voided, canceled or reduced in coverage or in limits,
except after 30 days’ prior written notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, sent to the city.
      (9)   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, save harmless and
defend the city and its officers and employees against any claim or loss,
damage or expense sustained on account of damages to persons or property
occurring by reason of permit work done by the permittee, his or her
subcontractor or agent, whether or not the work has been completed and whether
or not the right-of-way has been opened to public travel.
      (10)   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, hold harmless and
defend the city, its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage
or expense sustained by any person occurring by reason of doing any work
pursuant to the permit, including, but not limited to, falling objects or
failure to maintain proper barricades and/or lights as required from the time
work begins until the work is completed and right-of-way is opened for public
use.
   (B)   Carrier ratings. Insurance is to be placed with insurers with an AM
Best rating of no less than an A carrier, with a rating of seven or higher.
   (C)   Certificates. The permittee shall furnish the city with certificates
of insurance and original endorsements effecting coverage required by the
permit. The certificates and endorsements for each insurance policy are to be
signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its behalf.
The city expressly reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of
all required insurance policies at any time. Consequently, the permittee shall
be prepared to provide such copies prior to the issuance of the permit.
   (D)   Unsatisfactory policies. If any of the required policies are, or at
any time become, unsatisfactory to the city as to form or substance, or if a
company issuing any such policy is, or at any time becomes, unsatisfactory to
the city, the permittee shall promptly obtain a new policy, submit the same to
the city for approval, and thereafter submit verification of coverage as
required by the city. Upon failure to furnish, deliver and maintain such
insurance as provided herein, the city may declare the permit to be in default
and pursue any and all remedies the city may have at law or in equity,
including those actions outlined in this chapter.
   (E)   Subcontractors included. The permittee shall include all
subcontractors as insured under its policies or shall furnish separate
certificates and endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for
subcontractors shall be subject to all of the requirements stated herein.
   (F)   Deductibles and retentions require approval. Any deductibles or self-
insured retentions shall be declared to and approved by the city. At the option
of the city, either the insurer shall reduce or eliminate such deductibles or
self-insured retentions as respects the city, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers or assigns, or the permittee shall procure a
bond, in a form acceptable to the city, guaranteeing payment of losses and
related investigations, claim administration and defense expenses.
   (G)   Homeowner’s policy acceptable. A property owner performing work
adjacent to his or her residence may submit proof of a homeowner’s insurance
policy in lieu of the insurance requirements of this section.
   (H)   Exceptions to certificate submission. A provider may be relieved of
the obligation of submitting certificates of insurance under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   If such company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that:
         (a)   It is insured in the amounts set forth in this chapter, or has
complied with state requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may
submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of individual
submissions for each permit; and
         (b)   Said coverage provides to the city the same scope of coverage
that would otherwise be provided by a separate policy as required by this
chapter; or
      (2)   The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant
is to be performed by the city, in which case insurance or other risk transfer
issues shall be negotiated between the city and the applicant by separate
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-13)
§ 95.14 BOND; WHEN REQUIRED, CONDITIONS, WARRANTY.
   (A)   Amount. Except as noted in this chapter, each applicant, before being
issued a permit, shall provide the city with an acceptable security (this may
include a corporate surety bond, cash bond or irrevocable letter of credit, as
determined by the city) in an amount equal to the cost of the proposed work to
guarantee faithful performance of the work authorized by a permit granted
pursuant to this chapter. The amount of the security required may be increased
or decreased at the discretion of the City Engineer. The form of the security
and the entity issuing the security shall be subject to the approval of the
City Attorney.
   (B)   Exception for public utilities. Public utilities franchised by the
city shall not be required to file any security if such requirement is
expressly waived in the franchise documents.
   (C)   Conditions. The security required by this section shall be conditioned
as follows:
      (1)   The permittee shall fully comply with the requirements of the city
ordinances and regulations, specifications and standards promulgated by the
city relative to work in the public way, and respond to the city in damages for
failure to conform therewith;
      (2)   After work is commenced, the permittee shall proceed with diligence
and expedition and shall promptly complete such work and restore the public way
to construction specifications, so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary;
      (3)   The permittee shall guarantee the materials and workmanship for a
period of two years from completion of such work, with reasonable wear and tear
excepted; and
      (4)   Unless authorized by the City Engineer on the permit, all paving,
resurfacing or replacement of street facilities on major or collector streets
shall be done in conformance with the regulations contained herein within three
calendar days, and within seven calendar days from the time the excavation
commences on all other streets, except as provided for during excavation in
winter or during weather conditions which do not allow paving according to
engineering regulations. In winter, a temporary patch must be provided. In all
excavations, restoration or pavement surfaces shall be made immediately after
backfilling is completed or concrete is cured. If work is expected to exceed
the above duration, the permittee shall submit a detailed construction schedule
for approval. The schedule will address means and methods to minimize traffic
disruption and complete the construction as soon as reasonably possible.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-14)
§ 95.15 HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT; LIMITATIONS ON CITY LIABILITY.
   (A)   The permittee agrees to save the city, its officers, employees and
agents harmless from any and all costs, damages and liabilities which may
accrue or be claimed to accrue by reason of any work performed under the
permit. The issuance and acceptance of any permit under this chapter shall
constitute such an agreement by the permittee to this section.
   (B)   This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon the city, its
officers, employees and agents, any liability or responsibility for damages to
any person injured by or by reason of the performance of any work within the
public way, or under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter; nor shall the
city, its officers, officials, employees, agents, volunteers or assigns thereof
be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility by reason of
inspection authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit, or the approval of
any work.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-15)
§ 95.16 WORK WITHOUT PERMIT; PENALTY.
   A stop order may be issued by the City Engineer directed to any person or
persons doing or causing any work to be done in the public way without a
permit. The abutting property owner shall be responsible for causing work to be
done.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-16) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.17 FAILURE TO COMPLY; DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   Violations. Any permit may be revoked or suspended and a stop order
issued by the City Engineer, after notice to the permittee for:
      (1)   Violation of any condition of the permit, the security or of any
provision of this chapter;
      (2)   Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the city or
law relating to the work; or
      (3)   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act which does
constitute, may constitute, or cause a condition endangering life or property.
   (B)   Immediate effect. A suspension or revocation by the City Engineer, and
a stop order, shall take effect immediately upon entry thereof by the City
Engineer and notice to the person performing the work in the public way. Notice
to the person performing the work shall be accomplished when the City Engineer
has posted a stop work order at the location of the work and written notice has
been mailed, return receipt requested, to the address indicated by the
permittee on the permit.
   (C)   Notice of default. Whenever the City Engineer finds that a default has
occurred in the performance of any term or condition of the permit, written
notice thereof may be given to the principal and to the surety on the bond, if
there is a surety bond. Such notice shall state the work to be done, the
estimated cost thereof, and the period of time deemed by the City Engineer to
be reasonably necessary for the completion of the work.
   (D)   Performance by city. In the event that the surety (or principal),
within a reasonable time following the giving of such notice (taking into
consideration the exigencies of the situation, the nature of the work, the
requirements of public safety and for the protection of persons and property),
fails either to commence and cause the required work to be performed with due
diligence, or to indemnify the city for the cost of doing the work, as set
forth in the notice, the city may perform the work, at the discretion of the
City Engineer, with city forces or contract forces, or both; and suit may be
commenced by the City Attorney against the contractor and bonding company and
such other persons as may be liable, to recover the entire amount due to the
city, including attorney fees, on account thereof. In the event that cash has
been deposited, the cost of performing the work may be charged against the
amount deposited, and suit brought for the balance due, if any.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-17)
§ 95.18 FAILURE TO CONFORM TO DESIGN STANDARDS.
   For failure to conform to the design standards and regulations, the City
Engineer may:
   (A)   Suspend or revoke the permit;
   (B)   Issue a stop order;
   (C)   Order removal and replacement of faulty work;
   (D)   Require an extended warranty period; and/or
   (E)   Negotiate a cash settlement to be applied toward future maintenance
costs.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-18)
§ 95.19 APPEAL OF SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR STOP ORDER.
   Any suspension, revocation or stop order by the City Engineer may be
appealed by the permittee to the City Council by filing a written notice of
appeal within ten days of the action of the City Engineer. The City Council
shall hear such appeal, if written request therefor be timely filed, as soon as
practicable, and render its decision within a reasonable time following filing
of notice of appeal.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-19)
§ 95.20 TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly or without
authorization and legal cause, extinguish, remove or diminish any light
illuminating any barricade or excavation, or to tear down, remove or in any
manner alter any rail, fence or barricade protecting any excavation or other
construction site.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-20) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 CONFLICT WITH GOVERNING PROVISIONS.
   Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance, agreement, franchise or other document
governing the excavation of a public way, the more restrictive provisions of
the aforesaid documents shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-21)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and/or the alternative hearing and
enforcement program as provided in
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-22)
   (B)   Any person found to be doing work in the public way without having
obtained a permit, as provided in this chapter, shall be in violation of §
95.16 and shall be required to pay a permit fee equal to two times the normal
permit fee. For replacement work, where a fee is not normally charged, the
normal permit fee for new construction shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-16)
CHAPTER 96: CEMETERY
Section
   
96.01   Name of cemetery
   
96.02   Registrar of burials
   
96.03   Board of Health permit required
   
96.04   Deeds and rights of city and lot owners
   
96.05   Title; permit; disinterment
   
96.06   Fees
   
96.07   Rules, regulations and requirements
§ 96.01 NAME OF CEMETERY.
   The burial ground of Myton, Utah, shall be known and designated by the name
of Myton City cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 96.02 REGISTRAR OF BURIALS.
   (A)   Specified. The City Recorder shall be the registrar of burials for the
city.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Statement and records required. Before burying any dead body in any
cemetery within the corporate limits of the city, or before disinterring for
transportation beyond the corporate limits of the city the body of any person
who has been buried therein, the relatives or other person having charge of the
body shall be required to furnish in writing to the City Recorder a statement
of the death, which shall be recorded in a record kept for that purpose by the
City Recorder. Such statement, as well as the record, shall include the name of
the person deceased, when and where born, if known, the date of death and the
cause thereof, together with the name of the attending physician, if any,
coroner or midwife, also the date of burial, as well as the name of the
cemetery, with the initial letter of the plat, as well as the number of the
block or lot where the person is buried, and if disinterred and transferred
beyond the corporate limits of the city, the place of destination.
      (2)   Payment of monies. The City Recorder shall pay into the city
treasury, all monies that come into his or her hands by virtue of his or her
office, and make periodic reports of his or her doings to the Mayor as the
Mayor shall require.
      (3)   Charge of cemetery. The City Recorder shall take charge and have
the entire care, control and superintendence of the city cemetery, subject to
the order and direction of the City Council and shall collect all fees which
are, or may hereafter be prescribed for his or her services, and pay the same
into the city treasury as directed by the Mayor, taking the receipt of the City
Treasurer therefor. He or she shall keep in proper repair the enclosure around
the cemetery and prevent its being entered by cattle, or other loose animals,
and, so far as practicable, prevent the destruction or defacing of any monument
placed or erected therein. He or she shall have charge of a duplicate plat of
the cemetery and shall, at the request of any person wishing to purchase, point
out any of the lots or parts of lots, unoccupied, for sale; and upon the
disposal of any lots, or parts thereof, he or she shall notify the Mayor of the
fact, whose duty it shall be, upon payment of the price thereof into the city
treasury, to make and execute a deed to the purchaser.
      (4)   Deeds filed. When title to purchased lots is to be transferred or
reverts to the city, the original deeds shall be filed with the City Recorder,
and before new deeds are issued covering the property, the original deed shall
be canceled or quitclaim deed given and record so changed.
      (5)   Records or conveyances. The City Recorder shall keep in a book to
be kept for that purpose all conveyances executed under the provisions of this
chapter, stating the number of the lot and block conveyed, the date of such
conveyance, the name of the person to whom conveyed, and the amount received
for the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 96.03 BOARD OF HEALTH PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before permitting the burial of a body of any deceased person in the city
cemetery, or before permitting the removal of the body of any person buried
therein, the city shall require a permit from the Board of Health. After burial
or removal, the City Recorder shall endorse upon the permit the initial letter
of the plat and the number of block and lot and grave where said body is
buried, or from which said body had been removed, and shall make a record
thereof in the cemetery records.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 96.04 DEEDS AND RIGHTS OF CITY AND LOT OWNERS.
   (A)   Deed evidence of ownership. The purchase of one or more burial spaces
or lots from the city will be evidenced by a deed issued by the City Recorder’s
office. The deed shall be the sole evidence of title recognized by the city.
Transfer of title of property from the grantee on the deed shall be recognized
only upon recordation with the City Recorder. The City Recorder shall keep an
index book of all burial spaces or lots to which deeds have been issued and
shall show any transfer from the original purchaser to any subsequent owner,
and also shall index any probate or other judicial proceedings which affects
the ownership of a lot or burial space.
   (B)   Abandonment. Any lot or burial space containing one or more empty or
unused burial spaces to which no deed of conveyance has been recorded for a
period of 75 years or more; or any lot or burial space which has remained empty
without the burial of a human body for period in excess of 50 years will be
deemed abandoned by the property owner. Such lots and burial spaces may in the
interest of utilization of the cemetery be reclaimed and sold by the city.
   (C)   Nature and extent of rights acquired by deed. Upon payment of the
purchase price for any lot or burial space, the deed issued by the City
Recorder in the name of the purchaser shall vest in the purchaser, the right to
use the burial space or lot for burial purposes only and subject to all rules,
regulations, limitations and conditions as provided herein and by the City
Recorder as are necessary for efficient care of the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4)
§ 96.05 TITLE; PERMIT; DISINTERMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city cemetery to bury the body of
a deceased person in the city cemetery without first paying for and obtaining a
certificate of purchase of the lot used, from the City Recorder, or if he or
she does not own or purchase the lot, without furnishing a written permit from
the owner thereof, which permit shall be filed with the City Recorder. It shall
be unlawful for any person to disinter any body buried in said cemetery except
under the direction of the City Recorder; and before disinterment, the City
Recorder shall require a permit from the Board of Health and written order from
the Board of Health and written order from the owner of the lot authorizing
such removal, which order he or she shall file and preserve and all such
removals shall be recorded by him or her in a book kept for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06 FEES.
   The City Council shall establish by resolution the fees for cemetery
services. All such fees shall be collected by the City Recorder, which shall be
by him or her conveyed into the city treasury monthly.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6)
§ 96.07 RULES, REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Established. The City Council shall formulate and establish such rules
and regulations for the protection and governing of matters pertaining to the
cemetery as shall from time to time be found necessary to properly protect the
property therein and maintain said cemetery in suitable and proper condition.
   (B)   Burials must be in cemetery. It shall be unlawful for any person to
bury the body of a deceased person within the limits of the city except in the
burying grounds located therein.
   (C)   Plats of cemetery recorded. It is hereby made the duty of the City
Recorder to cause to be made an accurate plat of all of the lots, blocks,
walks, roads and lines of the city cemetery and file and record the same in his
or her office.
   (D)   Burial of indigent persons. Such lots as the City Council shall, from
time to time, designate shall be reserved for the burial of indigent persons.
If there is a need for indigent burial plots, application shall be made to the
City Council who shall review each case on an individual basis.
   (E)   Driving cars or other vehicles. Driving on lots, backing over graves,
cutting corners or speeding in the cemetery is prohibited.
   (F)   Opening graves; superintending interments. The City Recorder shall
cause to be opened without delay, upon payment of fee, all graves in the
cemetery upon application to him or her being made by the owner of any lot or
by any person having the right to enter therein. He or she shall superintend
every interment and shall fill up and neatly trim the grave immediately after
depositing the coffin and shall fill up and trim all graves that have settled
or may hereafter settle. He or she shall register the names, ages, parentage
and place of birth, if known, of all persons interred therein, the place of
their interment, the cause of death, and the name of the attending physician or
nurse.
   (G)   Monuments, markers.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to place any monument on any lot in
the cemetery made of any material other than metal, stone or cement.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place more than two markers
or monuments on any one grave.
   (H)   Violation unlawful. It is unlawful for any person to violate any rules
or the regulations as herein set forth or any published rules or regulations
established by this section respecting the city cemetery.
   (I)   Animals. It is unlawful for any person to drive or ride any animal
within the limits of the city cemetery.
   (J)   Motor vehicles. It is unlawful for any person to drive or ride any
motor vehicle within the limits of the cemetery at a rate of speed greater than
15 mph.
   (K)   Injury to property. It is unlawful for any person to injure or deface
any marker, tree, shrub or any other property in the city cemetery.
   (L)   Days when burials prohibited. No burials shall be allowed on the
following days: Christmas Day, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day,
Fourth of July, Labor Day and Sundays; provided, however, that a burial may be
permitted on any of the days described herein if the deceased died of a
contagious disease or burial is required by religious practices.
   (M)   Double depth burials.
      (1)   Anyone who wishes to make a double depth burial in the city
cemetery may make application for such to the City Recorder, who will give
permission for such burial in any location if the water table and ground
conditions in that location will accept a burial on two different depths. The
fee for the first burial shall be twice that of the regular opening and closing
fee, and for the second burial the regular opening and closing fee will be
charged. The grave marker for the double depth burial or for a single grave
shall not be wider than three feet.
      (2)   Grave liners for double depth burials must be of the type built
specifically for that purpose.
   (N)   Notice of burials and purchases required.
      (1)   All persons in charge of bodies to be buried in the city cemetery
must make the necessary arrangements for digging of the grave, time of arrival
at the cemetery, supplies for vaults or other pertinent matters at least eight
working hours prior to such burial. Families desiring to purchase grave space
for such a burial must contact the City Recorder at least eight working hours
prior to burial time.
      (2)   The City Recorder and his or her employees shall not be responsible
for any error or claimed error in opening graves when orders are given by
telephone or other than in writing.
   (O)   East-west burials required. All burials shall be with the length of
the casket on an east-west alignment.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7) Penalty, see §
95.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS; USE OF PUBLIC WAYS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Fee for license and regulations
   
110.04   Conduct of operations
   
110.05   License hearings; Hearing Officer
   
110.06   Unlawful operation
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry
on any business, trade, profession or calling for the transaction or carrying
on for which a license is required, without first taking out or procuring the
license herein required for such business, profession, trade or calling. No
work may be performed within the city limits to generate income over an annual
amount, which annual amount shall be set from time to time by resolution of the
City Council, unless or until obtaining such business license.
   (B)   Vendors. All vendors doing business with the merchants of the city, on
a regular basis, within the limits of the city, shall be required to obtain a
license to do business in the city; the amount of the license fee to be set by
resolution by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Required; filing; issuance. All applications for a license shall be
made to the City Recorder. Upon payment of appropriate fees and demonstration
of compliance with applicable ordinances, codes and statutes, the City Recorder
or designee shall issue a business license. All licenses shall be issued by the
City Recorder, and signed by the Mayor and the City Recorder, and attested
under the seal of the city. The City Recorder shall keep an alphabetical list
of the licenses issued, stating the number, name of applicant, time, place and
kind of business, and the amount paid, with such remarks as may be considered
necessary.
   (B)   Information on application. The application shall show the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the person desiring a license; if a partnership, the
names of all of the partners, and if a corporation, the names of the principal
officers thereof;
      (2)   The business, call, trade or profession to be performed, practiced
or carried on, and the type of license desired therefor, if there be different
types of licenses for such trade, calling, business or profession;
      (3)   The exact location of the place where such business, calling, trade
or profession is to be carried on, describing the same by street number, and if
only a part of the premises at a given address is to be occupied for the
licensed business, then the exact description of the part which is to be so
occupied; and
      (4)   Such other matter or information as may be required by law or
ordinance, or by the City Council under resolutions or regulations applicable
thereto.
   (C)   Transfer or assignment of license not permitted. No license granted
under the provisions of this chapter, or otherwise, shall be in any manner
assignable or transferable, or authorize any person other than is mentioned or
named therein to do business or authorize any other business that is therein
mentioned or named to be done or transacted at any other place than is herein
mentioned or named, unless by permission of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 110.03 FEE FOR LICENSE AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Amount of license fee fixed by resolution. The City Council shall by
resolution fix the amount of license fees and the terms and conditions thereof,
copies of which shall be available for public inspection at the office of the
City Recorder.
   (B)   Failure to pay; penalty. If any person shall neglect, fail or refuse
to pay the amount assessed when it becomes due on any license mentioned or
provided in this chapter, for a period of 30 days after the date on which said
license becomes due and payable, a penalty of 10% of the amount of such license
shall be added to the original amount, and the same shall be collected and the
payment thereof enforced by the City Treasurer. Continued failure to pay will
cause the business to be closed by the city.
   (C)   No rebate. No rebate shall be allowed upon any license issued.
   (D)   Evidence of liability to pay license fee. In any action brought under
or arising out of the provisions of this chapter, the fact that a person
represents himself or herself as engaged in any business or calling for
transaction of which a license is by ordinance required, or that such persons
exhibited a sign indicating such business or calling, shall be prima facie
evidence of the liability of such person to pay for a license.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 110.04 CONDUCT OF OPERATIONS.
   All businesses in the city shall be operated in accordance with federal and
state law regarding fair trade, records, accurate measure, health and safety.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any business which is of an
obscene, indecent or immoral nature, or that is offensive to the moral sense.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE HEARINGS; HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Hearing Officer; appointment and powers. The Mayor may appoint one or
more Hearing Officers, and the Mayor or the Hearing Officer shall have the
power and authority to call, preside at and conduct hearings to consider the
suspension, revocation, denial or approval of business licenses issued by the
city, including the power to examine witnesses and receive evidence, compel the
attendance of witnesses and compel the production of documents.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Authority. The City Recorder, or duly authorized designee, shall
serve as the city business license coordinator and shall have the authority,
without a hearing, to deny issuance of a new license application for the
reasons provided in this chapter.
      (2)   Appeal. The decision of the business license coordinator may be
appealed by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Recorder within 15
days of receipt of the notice of denial. The hearing of the appeal shall be
conducted pursuant to division (E) below.
      (3)   Hearing. Any suspension, revocation or denial of a license, whether
such action is taken as a part of the initial application submitted for
renewal, or some subsequent form of enforcement under a section of this code,
shall not be imposed until a hearing is held by the Mayor or a Hearing Officer
appointed by the Mayor, unless otherwise provided in this code. Regardless of
the time or basis for the suspension, revocation or denial of a license,
reasonable notice of the time and place of the hearing, together with notice of
the nature of the charges or complaint against the licensee, premises or
applicant sufficient to reasonably inform the licensee or applicant and enable
the licensee or applicant to answer such charges and complaint, shall be served
upon the licensee or applicant at his or her last known post office address not
later than five days prior to the hearing date.
   (C)   Criteria for denial. The city may deny the application for a business
license for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to meet qualifications. The applicant does not meet the
qualifications for a license as provided in this chapter;
      (2)   Nonpayment of fees. For a new application, nonpayment of a returned
check for the required license fees at the time the application is made. For a
business license renewal application, nonpayment of the required license fees,
plus any penalty assessed for late payment;
      (3)   Disapproval of reviewing department. One of the reviewing
departments or divisions of the city provided for in this code has disapproved
the application pursuant to any applicable provision of this code;
      (4)   False information. False or incomplete information given on the
application; and
      (5)   Noncompliance. Noncompliance with any city, state or federal
statutes, or any health department regulations governing the applicant’s
proposed business.
   (D)   Suspension or revocation.
      (1)   Grounds. The city may suspend or revoke a business license for any
of the following reasons:
         (a)   The license should not have been issued;
         (b)   The licensee does not now meet the qualifications for a license
as provided under this chapter;
         (c)   False or incomplete information given on an application;
         (d)   The licensee has violated or is violating any provision of this
chapter or provision of this code, or state or federal statutes or regulations
governing the licensee’s business;
         (e)   Violation of this chapter by the agents or employees of a
licensee and violations of any other laws by the agents or employees committed
while acting as an agent or employee of the licensee;
         (f)   Failure to pay a required fee; or
         (g)   Any other reason expressly provided for in this code.
      (2)   Time limitation. No business license shall be suspended or revoked
for a period of time exceeding one year.
   (E)   Hearing procedure.
      (1)   Mayor; Hearing Officer. Hearings to consider the revocation,
suspension or denial of a license issued by the city shall be held by or at the
direction of the Mayor. Such hearings may be held either before the Mayor or
before a Hearing Officer who has been appointed by the Mayor to conduct such
hearings.
      (2)   Testimony under oath; recorded. All witnesses called at such
hearings shall be sworn by a person duly authorized to administer oaths and a
record of such hearing shall be made by a recording. At the request and expense
of any party, a hearing may be recorded by a court reporter.
      (3)   Licensee rights. A licensee shall have the right to appear at the
hearing in person or by counsel, or both, present evidence, present argument on
the licensee’s or applicant’s behalf, cross examine witnesses, and in all
proper ways defend the licensee’s or applicant’s position.
      (4)   Order or decision. The Mayor or a designated Hearing Officer shall
make a ruling and decision based upon the evidence presented at such hearing,
and shall issue or adopt written findings of fact and conclusions of law in
appropriate cases and issue a written order or decision.
      (5)   Vacation of decision. Any decision entered by a Hearing Officer may
be vacated by the Mayor within 15 days after the entry thereof. The Mayor shall
thereafter conduct such further hearings, if any, as the Mayor shall deem
necessary, and based upon evidence received at all hearings on the issues, the
Mayor shall adopt written findings and enter a written order or decision.
      (6)   Final decision; appeal. A written order or decision of a Hearing
Officer, if not vacated by the Mayor, and a written order or decision of the
Mayor, shall constitute a final decision from which an appeal (for purposes of
review and not a trial de novo) may be taken to a court of law, in the time and
manner otherwise provided by law.
   (F)   Reapplication; waiting period. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, or any agent, manager or operator of any person, corporation or
firm who has had a license suspended, revoked or denied by the Mayor or the
Mayor’s designated Hearing Officer, to reapply for or obtain a license which
has been so suspended, revoked or denied during the time that said license has
been revoked, suspended or denied or for a period of one year, whichever is
less.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   If at any time a license under the provisions of this chapter is denied or
revoked, it shall thereafter be unlawful for any person to operate, manage or
conduct any business, trade or profession for the transaction or operation of
which a license is required until a new license is granted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Application for license
   
111.04   Qualifications of licensee
   
111.05   Fee for license
   
111.06   Bond required
   
111.07   Classifications and privileges
   
111.08   Department of Health permit
   
111.09   Transfer of license
   
111.10   Inspection of premises
   
111.11   Separate license; display required
   
111.12   Alcohol training and education
   
111.13   Restrictions
   
111.14   Renewal of license
   
111.15   Suspension or revocation of license
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Table of uses, see §
153.155
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings specified
in the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being UCA § 32B-1-101, unless a
different meaning is clearly evident.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of selling
beer at retail, in bottles or draft, without first having procured a license
therefor from the city and paid the license fee required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Verification; filing. All applications for licenses authorized by this
chapter shall be verified and filed with the City Recorder. The application
must state the applicant’s name in full and that he or she understands and has
read and complied with the requirements and possesses the qualifications
specified in the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act and this chapter. If the
applicant is a copartnership, the names and addresses of all partners, and if a
corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors must be
stated.
   (B)   Applicant subscription. The application must be subscribed by the
applicant, who shall state under oath that the facts therein contained are
true.
   (C)   Referral to Sheriff. All applications filed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be referred to the Sheriff’s office for
inspection and report. The Sheriff’s office shall, when possible, within 30
days after receiving such application, make report to the City Council of the
general reputation and character of the persons who habitually frequent such
place, the nature and kind of business conducted at such place by the applicant
or by any other persons or by the applicant at any other place; whether the
place is or has been conducted in a lawful, quiet and orderly manner; the
nature and kind of entertainment, if any, at such place; whether gambling is or
has been permitted on the premises or by the applicant at any other place; and
the proximity of such premises to any school or church. The Sheriff’s office
shall also add to such report its recommendation as to whether or not the
application should be granted.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 111.04 QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE.
   No license shall be granted to any retailer to sell beer or to any brewer or
wholesaler, unless he or she shall be of good moral character, over the age of
21 years, and a citizen of the United States, or to anyone who has been
convicted of a felony or of any violation of any law of the state or provision
of the ordinances of the city relating to intoxicating liquors, or of keeping a
gambling or disorderly house, or who has pleaded guilty to or has forfeited his
or her bail on a charge of having committed a felony or of having violated any
such law or ordinance, or to any partnership, any member of which lacks any of
the qualifications set forth in this chapter, or to any corporation, any member
of which lacks any of such qualifications.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 111.05 FEE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Required. Applications provided for in this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fees provided in this section. The fee shall be returned to
the applicant if the application is denied.
   (B)   Enumerated. In addition to any other business license fee which any
person or place of business may be required to pay, there is hereby levied upon
the business location of every person engaged in the sale or other dispensing
of beer, an annual license fee in such amount as established by resolution of
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 111.06 BOND REQUIRED.
   No license required by this chapter shall be granted by the City Council
until the applicant shall have filed with the City Recorder a bond in a sum and
as required by UCA § 32B-10-205. The bond shall be made in favor of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 111.07 CLASSIFICATIONS AND PRIVILEGES.
   Retail licenses issued hereunder shall be of the following four kinds and
shall carry the following privileges and be known as class A, class B, class C
and seasonal licenses.
   (A)   Class A. Class A licenses issued hereunder shall entitle the licensee
to sell beer on the premises licensed in original containers for consumption
off the premises in accordance with the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act,
being UCA Title 32B, and the ordinances of this city.
   (B)   Class B. Class B retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
beer in the original containers on the premises for consumption on or off the
premises in accordance with the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being UCA
Title 32B, and the ordinances of this city.
   (C)   Class C. Class C licenses for retail shall entitle the licensee to
sell draft beer for consumption on or off the premises and to sell beer in
accordance with the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being UCA Title 32B,
and the ordinances of the city.
   (D)   Seasonal. Seasonal licenses of any class may be issued for a period of
time not to exceed one year, which period shall be determined by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7)
§ 111.08 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH PERMIT.
   No license under this chapter shall be issued until the applicant therefor
shall have first procured from the Department of Health a permit which shall
show that the premises to be licensed is in a sanitary condition and that the
equipment used in the storage, distribution or sale of beer complies with all
the health regulations of the city and of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8)
§ 111.09 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable, and if
revoked by the City Council, the fee paid by the licensee to the city for the
license shall be forfeited to the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9)
§ 111.10 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Authority. All licensed premises shall be subject to inspection by any
officer, agent or peace officer of the city or the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Commission, or the State Board of Health, and every licensee shall, at the
request of the State Board of Health, furnish to it samples of beer which he or
she shall have for sale.
   (B)   Revocation. Any license granted pursuant to this chapter may be
revoked upon a finding by the City Council that the licensee has had ten days’
or more notice from the State Board of Health that the licensee is violating
one or more health ordinances, rules or regulations of the city or of the Utah
Division of Health and has failed to comply with such health ordinance, rule or
regulation.
   (C)   Close of business. The City Council may direct the Sheriff’s office to
close down any business licensed under this chapter where the State Board of
Health has determined that continued operation of the business presents an
imminent danger to the health of the community or persons who may eat or drink
at the business.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-10)
§ 111.11 SEPARATE LICENSE; DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   A separate license shall be required for each place of sale, and the license
shall at all times be conspicuously displayed in the place to which it shall
refer or for which it shall be issued. All licenses shall comply with the Utah
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being UCA Title 32B, and the regulations of the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-11)
§ 111.12 ALCOHOL TRAINING AND EDUCATION.
   (A)   Required. Commencing September 1, 1987, no person shall be granted a
license to operate or maintain a trade, profession or calling, the transaction
or carrying on of which requires a license, within the city, if such person
operated an establishment which as part of its business serves “alcoholic
beverages”, as defined in UCA § 32B-1-102(3), to the public for consumption on
the premises, unless that person shall show by certificate(s) granted by the
Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, or by adequate proof of the
existence of such certificate, that each employee of the business engaging in
the serving, selling or furnishing of such alcohol on the premises has
completed the alcohol training and education seminar, as required in UCA § 62A-
15-401.
   (B)   New employees. Every new employee, hired after the licensee has been
licensed in compliance with division (A) above, who is required to complete
this seminar shall complete the seminar within six months of commencing
employment. Violation of this section will result in revocation of the license
granted under this chapter unless compliance with this section is completed
within two months of the time that the licensee first became aware that such
violation occurred.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-12)
§ 111.13 RESTRICTIONS.
   Operational restrictions shall be as provided in UCA § 32B-10-206, or
successor provisions.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-13)
§ 111.14 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All applications for renewal licenses filed by the holders of existing
licenses shall be filed with the City Recorder at least 30 days prior to the
expiration date of the then issued license. Any person who fails to file such
application within the time limit shall close his or her licensed premises on
the expiration date of the then issued license and shall keep the premises
closed for any and all business for the sale of beer until the date his or her
new license is issued by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-14)
§ 111.15 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The procedure for suspension, revocation, denial or approval of alcoholic
beverage licenses issued by the city shall be as provided in §
110.05 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-15)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to penalty
as provided in §
10.99, and/or the alternative hearing and enforcement program as provided in
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-16)
CHAPTER 112: TELECOMMUNICATIONS; USE OF PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
112.01   Scope of intent
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Franchise required
   
112.04   Compensation and other payments
   
112.05   Franchise applications
   
112.06   Construction and technical requirements
   
112.07   Transfer or sale of franchise or license
   
112.08   Oversight and regulation
   
112.09   Rights of city
   
112.10   Obligation to notify; publicizing work
   
112.11   General provisions
   
112.12   Federal, state and city jurisdiction
§ 112.01 SCOPE OF INTENT.
   (A)   Declaration of findings and intent.
      (1)   Rights-of-way. The city finds that the rights-of-way within the
city:
         (a)   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property
in the business and social life of the city;
         (b)   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
         (c)   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and
other public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered
for profit, to the enhancement of the health, welfare and general economic well
being of the city and its citizens; and
         (d)   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and
negative effects upon the public from such facilities’ construction, placement,
relocation and maintenance in the rights-of-way.
      (2)   Compensation. The city finds that the city should receive fair and
reasonable compensation for use of the rights-of-way.
      (3)   Local concern. The city finds that while telecommunications systems
are in part an extension of interstate commerce, their operations also involve
rights-of-way, municipal franchising and vital business and community service,
which are of local concern.
      (4)   Promotion of telecommunications services. The city finds that it is
in the best interests of its taxpayers and citizens to promote the rapid
development of telecommunications services, on a nondiscrimination basis,
responsive to community and public interest, and to assure availability for
municipal, educational and community services.
      (5)   Franchise standards. The city finds that it is in the interests of
the public to franchise and to establish standards for franchising providers in
a manner that:
         (a)   Fairly and reasonably compensates the city on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein;
         (b)   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions
under which providers may use the rights-of-way to serve the public;
         (c)   Fully protects the public interests and the city from any harm
that may flow from such commercial use of rights-of-way;
         (d)   Protects the police powers and rights-of-way management
authority of the city, in a manner consistent with federal and state law;
         (e)   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and
use of the city infrastructure;
         (f)   Protects the public’s investment in improvements in the rights-
of-way; and
         (g)   Ensures that no barriers to entry of telecommunications
providers are created and that such franchising is accomplished in a manner
that does not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting telecommunication
services, within the meaning of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (“Act”)
(Pub. Law N. 103-104).
   (B)   Power to manage rights-of-way. The city adopts this telecommunications
chapter pursuant to its power to manage the rights-of-way, pursuant to common
law, the Utah Constitution and statutory authority, and to receive fair and
reasonable, compensation for the use of rights-of-way by providers as expressly
set forth by § 253 of the Act.
   (C)   Scope of provisions. This chapter shall provide the basic local scheme
for providers of telecommunications services and systems that require the use
of the rights-of-way, including providers of both the system and service, those
providers of the system only, and those providers who do not build the system
but who only provide services. This chapter shall apply to all future providers
and to all providers in the city prior to the effective date hereof, whether
operating with or without a franchise as set forth in §
112.03.
   (D)   Excluded activity.
      (1)   Cable television. This chapter shall not apply to cable television
operators otherwise regulated by the state or the county.
      (2)   Wireless services. This chapter shall not apply to personal
wireless service facilities.
      (3)   Provisions applicable to excluded providers. Providers excused by
other law that prohibits the city from requiring a franchise shall not be
required to obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this
chapter through the exercise of the city police power and not preempted by
other law shall be applicable.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the single number
include the plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The
words “shall” and “will” are mandatory, and “may” is permissive. Words not
defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   APPLICATION. The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates
a desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the rights-of-way of all, or a
part, of the city. An APPLICATION includes all written documentation, verbal
statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a provider
to the city concerning the construction of a telecommunications system over,
under, on or through the rights-of-way; the telecommunications services
proposed to be provided in the city by a provider; and any other matter
pertaining to a proposed system or service.
   CITY. Myton City Corporation, Utah.
   COMPLETION DATE. The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers in the city.
   CONSTRUCTION COSTS. All costs of constructing a system, including make ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney or accountant fees, or other
consulting fees.
   CONTROL or CONTROLLING INTEREST. Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert, of more
than 25% of any provider (which person or group of persons is hereinafter
referred to as CONTROLLING PERSON). CONTROL or CONTROLLING INTEREST, as used
herein, may be held simultaneously by more than one person or group of persons.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, or any successor thereto.
   FRANCHISE. The rights and obligation extended by the city to a provider to
own, lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a system in the rights-of-way
within the boundaries of the city. Any such authorization, in whatever form
granted, shall not mean or include:
      (1)   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the city required by the
ordinances and laws of the city; and
      (2)   Any other permit, agreement or authorization required in connection
with operations on rights-of-way or public property, including, without
limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits
or other structures, whether owned by the city or a private entity, or for
excavating or performing other work in or along the rights-of-way.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A contract entered into in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter between the city and a franchisee that sets forth,
subject to this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will
be exercised.
   GROSS REVENUE. Includes all revenues of a provider that may be included as
gross revenue within the meaning of UCA Title 11, Chapter 26, as amended.
   INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the rights-of-way.
   OPEN VIDEO SERVICE. Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights-of-way, by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to the Telecommunications Act §§ 651 et
seq. (47 U.S.C. Title VI, Part V), regardless of the system used.
   OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM. The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides,
optic fiber, microwave, laser beams and any associated converters, equipment or
facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
amplifying or distributing open video services to or from subscribers or
locations within the city.
   OPERATOR. Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system
and directly or through one or more persons owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
   ORDINANCE or TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE. This telecommunications ordinance
concerning the granting of franchises in and by the city for the construction,
ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
   PSC. The Public Service Commission, or any successor thereto.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association,
joint stock company, trust, or any other legal entity, but not the city.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES. Has the same meaning as provided in §
704 of the Act (47 U.S.C. § 332c7c), which includes what is commonly known as
cellular and PCS services that do not install any system or portion of a system
in the rights-of-way.
   PROVIDER. An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller or system lessee,
including, but not limited to, electric companies, gas companies and telephone
companies.
   RESELLER. Any person that provides local exchange service over a system for
which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the
underlying system used for the transmission.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface of and the space above and below any public
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or
hereafter existing as such within the city.
   SIGNAL. Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or
laser or radio frequency energy or optical information in either analog or
digital format.
   SYSTEM LESSEE. Any person that leases a system or a specific portion of a
system to provide services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission, between or among points specified by
the user, of information of the user’s choosing (e.g., data, video and voice),
without change in the form or content of the information sent and received.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE OR SERVICES. Any telecommunications services
provided by a provider within the city that the provider is authorized to
provide under federal, state and local law, and any equipment and/or facilities
required for and integrated with the services provided within the city, except
that these terms do not include “cable service” as defined in the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), and the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM. All conduits, manholes, poles,
antennas, transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment,
wire and appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider, located in the
rights-of-way and utilized in the provision of services, including fully
digital or analog, voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced
telecommunications services. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEMS also includes
an open video system.
   WIRE. Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 112.03 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Nonexclusive franchise. The city is empowered and authorized to issue
nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction and
maintenance of systems in the city rights-of-way, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the city and provider.
   (B)   Every provider must obtain. Except to the extent preempted by federal
or state law, as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including any appeals, every provider must obtain a franchise prior to
constructing a telecommunications system or providing telecommunications
services using the rights-of-way, and every provider must obtain a franchise
before constructing an open video system or providing open video services via
an open video system. Any open video system or service shall be subject to the
customer service and consumer protection provisions applicable to the cable TV
companies to the extent the city is not preempted or permitted, as ultimately
interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction, including any appeals. The
fact that particular telecommunications systems may be used for multiple
purposes does not obviate the need to obtain a franchise for other purposes. By
way of illustration and not limitation, a cable operator of a cable system must
obtain a cable franchise, and, should it intend to provide telecommunications
services over the same system, must also obtain a telecommunications franchise.
   (C)   Nature of grant. A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or
legal, in the rights-of-way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights-of-
way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period
stated in the franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned or
subleased. A franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate
access or pole attachment agreements before collocating its system on the
property of others, including the city’s property. This division (C) shall not
be construed to prohibit a provider from leasing conduit to another provider,
so long as the lessee has obtained a franchise.
   (D)   Current providers. Except to the extent exempted by federal or state
law, any provider acting without a franchise on the effective date hereof shall
request issuance of a franchise from the city within 90 days of the effective
date hereof. If such request is made, the provider may continue providing
service during the course of negotiations. If a timely request is not made, or
if negotiations cease and a franchise is not granted, the provider shall comply
with the provisions of §
112.09(E).
   (E)   Nature of franchise. The franchise granted by the city under the
provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise providing the
right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove and replace its system
on, over and under the rights-of-way in order to provide services.
   (F)   Regulatory approval needed. Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of
such services from the appropriate federal, state and local authorities, if
required, and shall submit to the city upon the written request of the city
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
   (G)   Term. No franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall have a term
of less than five years or greater than 15 years. Each franchise shall be
granted in a nondiscriminatory manner.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 112.04 COMPENSATION AND OTHER PAYMENTS.
   As fair and reasonable compensation for any franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter, a provider shall have the following obligations.
   (A)   Application fee. In order to offset the cost to the city to review an
application for a franchise and in addition to all other fees, permits or
charges, a provider shall pay to the city, at the time of application, a
nonrefundable application fee in such amount as established by resolution of
the City Council.
   (B)   Franchise fee. The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the
franchise agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence on
the completion date. The franchise fee is offset by any business license fee or
business license tax enacted by the city.
   (C)   Excavation permits. The provider shall also pay fees required for an
excavation permit as provided in
Chapter 95 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Time of payment. Unless otherwise agreed to in the franchise
agreement, all franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within 45 days
of the close of each calendar month.
   (E)   Fee statement and certification. Unless a franchise agreement provides
otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the
manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to its
accuracy.
   (F)   Future costs. A provider shall pay to the city or to third parties, at
the direction of the city, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and
reasonable expenses that the city incurs for the services of third parties
(including, but not limited to, attorneys and other consultants) in connection
with any renewal or provider initiated renegotiations, or amendment of this
chapter or a franchise; provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon a
reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations. Any costs associated
with any work to be done by the Power and Public Works Department to provide
space on city owned poles shall be borne by the provider.
   (G)   Taxes and assessments. To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities, other than the city on the use of the city
property as a result of a provider’s use or occupation of the rights-of-way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually, unless otherwise required by the taxing authority.
Such payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
chapter.
   (H)   Interest on late payments. In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the city on or before the applicable date fixed in the
franchise, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the
rate charged for delinquent state taxes.
   (I)   No accord and satisfaction. No acceptance by the city of any fee shall
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount,
nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any
claim the city may have for additional sums payable.
   (J)   Not in lieu of other taxes or fees. The fee payment is not a payment
in lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment except as specifically provided in
this chapter, or as required by applicable law. By way of example, and not
limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the city owned
poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   (K)   Continuing obligation and holdover. In the event a provider continues
to operate all or any part of the system after the term of the franchise, such
operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter and the franchise, including, without limitation, all compensation and
other payment provisions throughout the period of such continued operation;
provided, that any such continued operation shall in no way be construed as a
renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a limitation on the
remedies, if any, available to the city as a result of such continued operation
after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and restitution.
   (L)   Costs of publication. A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise that may be required by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
§ 112.05 FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Franchise application. To obtain a franchise to construct, own,
maintain or provide services through any system within the city, to obtain a
renewal of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, or to obtain the city
approval of a transfer of a franchise, as provided in §
112.07(B), granted pursuant to this chapter, an application must be filed with
city on the form attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit A, which
is hereby incorporated by reference. The application form may be changed by the
Mayor so long as such changes request information that is consistent with this
chapter. Such application form, as amended, is incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Application criteria. In making a determination as to an application
filed pursuant to this chapter, the city may, but shall not be limited to,
request the following from the provider:
      (1)   A copy of the order from the PSC granting a certificate of
convenience and necessity;
      (2)   Certification of the provider’s financial ability to compensate the
city for provider’s intrusion, maintenance and use of the rights-of-way during
the franchise term proposed by the provider;
      (3)   Provider’s agreement to comply with the requirements of §
112.06; and
      (4)   Prior to making any attachments to poles, the willingness to enter
into a pole attachment agreement with the city.
   (C)   Franchise determination. The city, in its discretion, shall determine
the award of any franchise on the basis of these and other considerations
relevant to the use of the rights-of-way, without competitive bidding.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 112.06 CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirement. No provider shall receive a franchise unless it
agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this section governing
construction and technical requirements for its system, in addition to any
other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the city or the
franchise, including requirements regarding locating and sharing in the cost of
locating portions of the system with other systems or with city utilities. A
provider shall obtain an excavation permit, pursuant to the excavation
ordinance, before commencing any work in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Quality. All work involved in the construction, maintenance, repair,
upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a safe, thorough and
reliable manner using materials of good and durable quality. If, at any time,
it is determined by the FCC or any other agency granted authority by federal
law or the FCC to make such determination, that any part of the system,
including, without limitation, any means used to distribute signals over or
within the system, is harmful to the public health, safety or welfare, or
quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   (C)   Licenses and permit. A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or
other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, maintain,
upgrade or repair the system, including, but not limited to, any necessary
approvals from persons and/or the city to use private property, easements,
poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval or authorization, including, but not limited to, excavation permits,
pole attachment agreements and the like, prior to the commencement of the
activity for which the permit, license, approval or authorization is required.
   (D)   New grades or lines. If the grades or lines of any rights-of-way are
changed at any time in a manner affecting the system, then a provider shall
comply with the requirements of the excavation ordinance.
   (E)   City authority to move system in emergency. The city may, at any time,
in case of fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the city in its
reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and appurtenances
on, over or under the rights-of-way of the city, in which event the city shall
not be liable therefor to a provider. The city shall notify a provider in
writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as possible, and in
no case later than the next business day following any action taken under this
section. Notice shall be given as provided in §
112.11(D).
   (F)   Provider required to temporarily move system for third party. A
provider shall, upon prior reasonable written notice by the city, or any person
holding a permit, to move any structure, and within the time that is reasonable
under the circumstances, temporarily move any part of its system to permit the
moving of said structure. A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any
person other than the city for any such movement of its system.
   (G)   Right-of-way change; obligation to move system. When the city is
changing rights-of-way and makes a written request, a provider is required to
move or remove its system from the rights-of-way, without cost to the city, to
the extent provided in the excavation regulations. This obligation does not
apply to systems originally located on private property pursuant to a private
easement, which property was later incorporated into the rights-of-way, if that
private easement grants a superior vested right. This obligation exists whether
or not the provider has obtained an excavation permit.
   (H)   Protection of structures. In connection with the construction,
maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider shall, at its
own cost and expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to the
city, and all designated landmarks, as well as all other structures within any
designated landmark district. A provider shall obtain the prior written consent
of the city to alter any water main, power facility, sewerage or drainage
system, or any other municipal structure on, over or under the rights-of-way of
the city required because of the presence of the system. Any such alteration
shall be made by the city or its designee on a reimbursable basis. A provider
agrees that it shall be liable for the costs incurred by the city to replace or
repair and restore to its prior condition in a manner as may be reasonably
specified by the city, any municipal structure or any other rights-of-way of
the city involved in the construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal
of the system that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of any work
thereon by or on behalf of a provider pursuant to the franchise.
   (I)   No obstruction. In connection with the construction, maintenance,
upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not unreasonably
obstruct the rights-of-way of fixed guideway systems, railways, passenger
travel, or other traffic to, from or within the city without the prior consent
of the appropriate authorities.
   (J)   Safety precautions. A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. A provider shall comply
with all applicable federal, state and local requirements, including, but not
limited to, the adopted electrical safety code.
   (K)   Repair. After written reasonable notice to the provider, unless, in
the sole determination of the city, an imminent danger exists, any rights-of-
way within the city which are disturbed or damaged during the construction,
maintenance or reconstruction by a provider of its system may be repaired by
the city at the provider’s expense, to a condition as good as that prevailing
before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the city shall submit to such a
provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and restoring the
rights-of-way intruded upon. The provider shall, within 30 days after receipt
of the statement, pay to the city the entire amount thereof.
   (L)   System maintenance. A provider shall:
      (1)   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a nondangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise;
      (2)   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the adopted
electrical safety code and all applicable other federal, state and local laws
or regulations; and
      (3)   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the city of the system and its effect on the rights-of-way.
   (M)   Trimming of streets. A provider shall have the authority to trim
trees, in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and
easement restrictions, upon and hanging over rights-of-way so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with its system.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)
Cross-reference:
   Excavations, see
Ch. 95
§ 112.07 TRANSFER OR SALE OF FRANCHISE OR LICENSE.
   (A)   Notification and election. When a provider is the subject of a sale,
transfer, lease, assignment, sublease or disposal of, in whole or in part,
either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or
otherwise, such that it or its successor entity is obligated to inform or seek
the approval of the PSC, the provider or its successor entity, shall promptly
notify the city of the nature of the transaction. The notification shall
include either:
      (1)   The successor entity’s certification that the successor entity
unequivocally agrees to all of the terms of the original provider’s franchise
agreement; or
      (2)   The successor entity’s application in compliance with §
112.05.
   (B)   Transfer of franchise. Upon receipt of a notification and
certification in accordance with division (A)(1) above, the city designee, as
provided in §
112.09(A), shall send notice affirming the transfer of the franchise to the
successor entity. If the city has good cause to believe that the successor
entity may not comply with this chapter or the franchise agreement, it may
require an application for the transfer. The application shall comply with §
112.05.
   (C)   If PSC approval no longer required. If the PSC no longer exists, or if
its regulations or state law no longer require approval of transactions
described in division (A) above, and the city has good cause to believe that
the successor entity may not comply with this chapter or the franchise
agreement, it may require an application. The application shall comply with §
112.05.
   (D)   Events of sale. The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of the franchise requiring compliance with
division (A) above:
      (1)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of a
provider’s assets to another person;
      (2)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in a provider by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in a provider;
      (3)   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership, membership
or other equity interest by a provider so as to create a new controlling
interest in such a provider; or
      (4)   The entry by a provider into an agreement with respect to the
management or operation of such provider or its system.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7)
§ 112.08 OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION.
   (A)   Insurance, indemnity and security. Prior to the execution of a
franchise, a provider will deposit with the city an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit or surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and
shall obtain and provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the
franchise. A provider shall also indemnify the city as set forth in the
franchise.
   (B)   Oversight. The city shall have the right to oversee, regulate and
inspect periodically the construction, maintenance and upgrade of the system,
and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the franchise and
applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain managerial and
operational records, standards, procedures and controls to enable a provider to
prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the city at all times
throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with the franchise. A
provider shall retain such records for not less than the applicable statute of
limitations.
   (C)   Maintain records. A provider shall at all times maintain:
      (1)   On file with the city, a full and complete set of plans, records
and as built hard copy maps and, to the extent the maps are placed in an
electronic format, they shall be made in electronic format compatible with the
city’s existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the
types of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights-of-way,
properly identified and described as to the types of equipment and facility by
appropriate symbols and marks, which shall include annotations of all rights-
of-way where work will be undertaken. As used herein, as built maps include
“file construction prints”. Maps shall be drawn to scale. As built maps,
including the compatible electronic format, as provided above, shall be
submitted within 30 days of completion of work or within 30 days after
completion of modification and repairs. As built maps are not required of the
provider who is the incumbent local exchange carrier for the existing system to
the extent they do not exist; and
      (2)   Throughout the term of the franchise, a provider shall maintain
complete and accurate books of account and records of the business, ownership
and operations of a provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows
the city at all times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the
franchise. Should the city reasonably determine that the records are not being
maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the
books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance
with this division (C). All financial books and records which are maintained in
accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that
regulates utilities in the state, and generally accepted accounting principles,
shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section.
   (D)   Confidentiality. If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by federal, state or local
law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall be classified as
a protected record within the meaning of the Utah Government Records Access and
Management Act (GRAMA), being UCA §§ 63G-2-101 et seq., making it available
only to those who must have access to perform their duties on behalf of the
city; provided, that a provider notifies the city of, and clearly labels, the
information which a provider deems to be confidential, proprietary information.
Such notification and labeling shall be the sole responsibility of the
provider.
   (E)   Provider’s expense. All reports and records required under this
chapter shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter or a franchise.
   (F)   Right of inspection. For the purpose of verifying the correct amount
of the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto
shall be open to inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives of the
city at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records; provided, that the city shall not audit
the books and records of the provider more often than annually. The provider
agrees to reimburse the city the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit
discloses that the provider has paid 95% or less of the compensation due the
city for the period of such audit. In the event the accounting rendered to the
city by the provider herein is found to be incorrect, then payment shall be
made on the corrected amount within 30 calendar days of written notice, it
being agreed that the city may accept any amount offered by the provider, but
the acceptance thereof by the city shall not be deemed a settlement of such
item if the amount is in dispute or is later found to be incorrect.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8)
§ 112.09 RIGHTS OF CITY.
   (A)   City designee for enforcement. The city is responsible for enforcing
and administering this chapter, and the city or its designee, as appointed by
the Mayor, is authorized to give any notice required by law or under any
franchise agreement.
   (B)   Enforcement provision within franchise agreement. Any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter shall contain appropriate provisions for
enforcement, compensation and protection of the public, consistent with the
other provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, defining
events of default, procedures for accessing the bond/security fund, and rights
of termination or revocation.
   (C)   Force majeure. In the event a provider’s performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this chapter or a franchise is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider’s control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes or events
not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation, acts of
God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of
utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural disasters such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides and fires.
   (D)   Extended operation and continuity of services.
      (1)   Continuation after expiration. Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the city shall have discretion
to permit a provider to continue to operate its system or provide services for
an extended period of time not to exceed six months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its system under
the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter.
      (2)   Continuation by incumbent local exchange carrier. If the provider
is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   (E)   Removal or abandonment of franchise property.
      (1)   Abandoned system. In the event that:
         (a)   The use of any portion of the system is discontinued for a
continuous period of 12 months, and 30 days after no response to written notice
from the city to the last known address of provider;
         (b)   Any system has been installed in the rights-of-way without
complying with the requirements of this chapter or franchise; or
         (c)   The provisions of §
112.03(E) are applicable and no franchise is granted, a provider, except the
provider who is an incumbent local exchange carrier, shall be deemed to have
abandoned such system.
      (2)   Removal of abandoned system. The city, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system, or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time the
abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights-of-way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights-of-way in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The city shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights-of-way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
chapter and any security fund provided in a franchise shall continue in full
force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a
provider with the terms and conditions of this section.
      (3)   Transfer of abandoned system to city. Upon abandonment of any
system in place, a provider, if required by the city, shall submit to the city
a written instrument, satisfactory in form to the city, transferring to the
city the ownership of the abandoned system.
   (F)   Removal of aboveground system. At the expiration of the term for which
a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this chapter, in any such case without renewal, extension or
transfer, the city shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its
expense, all aboveground portions of a system from the rights-of-way within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than 180 days. If the
provider is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall not be required to
remove its system, but shall negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   (G)   Leaving underground system. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth in this chapter, a provider may abandon any underground system in
place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the rights-
of-way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or other
person.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9)
§ 112.10 OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY; PUBLICIZING WORK.
   Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good
faith attempt to contact the property owners in advance, and describe the work
to be performed.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-10)
§ 112.11 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conflicts. In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this chapter
in effect at the time the franchise is entered into shall control.
   (B)   Severability. If any provision of this chapter is held by any federal,
state or local court of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting
with any federal or state statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in
any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law and all
appellate remedies with regard to the validity of the ordinance provisions in
question are exhausted, such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct
and independent part of this chapter, and such holding shall not affect the
validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the event that
such law is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so
that the provision which had been held invalid or modified is no longer in
conflict with such law, the provision in question shall return to full force
and effect and shall again be binding on the city and the provider; provided,
that the city shall give the provider 30 days, or a longer period of time as
may be reasonably required for a provider to comply with such a rejuvenated
provision, written notice of the change before requiring compliance with such
provision.
   (C)   New developments. It shall be the policy of the city to liberally
amend this chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable
the provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently or economically serve itself or the public.
   (D)   Notices. All notices from a provider to the city required under this
chapter or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
directed to the officer as designated by the Mayor. A provider shall provide in
any application for a franchise the identity, address and phone number of the
person to receive notices from the city. A provider shall immediately notify
the city of any change in its name, address or telephone number.
   (E)   Exercise of police power. To the full extent permitted by applicable
law either now or in the future, the city reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-11)
§ 112.12 FEDERAL, STATE AND CITY JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Construction. This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent
with all applicable federal and state statutes.
   (B)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to all franchises granted or
renewed after the effective date hereof. This chapter shall further apply, to
the extent permitted by applicable federal or state law, to all existing
franchises granted prior to the effective date hereof and to a provider
providing services, without a franchise, prior to the effective date hereof.
   (C)   Other applicable ordinances. A provider’s rights are subject to the
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to its
police powers. In particular, all providers shall comply with the city zoning
and other land use requirements.
   (D)   City failure to enforce. A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter by reason of any failure of the city
to enforce prompt compliance.
   (E)   State law applicable. This chapter and any franchise granted pursuant
to this chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the
substantive laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-12)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Criminal Code adopted by reference
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah Criminal Code, UCA Title 76, as amended,
with a corresponding penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor or class B
misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof
shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation shall be
subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Curfew for minors
§ 131.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Specified.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for minor persons under 16 years of age to be
in or on any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places in the city
between 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., unless exempted under division (C) of this
section.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for minor person under 18 years of age to be
in or on any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public places in the city
between 12:30 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
      (3)   The provisions of divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall not apply
where such minor person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult
person having the legal custody of such minor, or 30 minutes after attending
organized activities sponsored by a school, civic organization or church.
   (B)   Responsibility of parents, guardians or legal custodians. It shall be
unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having the legal care and
custody of any minor person under 18 years of age to allow or permit any such
minor to violate the provisions of division (A) above , unless exempted under
division (C) of this section.
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING AND RELATED CODES; REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE HOME PARKS AND TRAVEL TRAILER COURTS
      
152.   FLOOD CONTROL
      
153.   LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND RELATED CODES
Section
   
150.01   Purpose and intent
   
150.02   Codes adopted
   
150.03   Successor Codes
§ 150.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish the regulatory
codes and guidelines to govern construction within the city in a thorough and
concise manner while also providing for the adoption of changes to the codes
and guidelines without the necessity of adopting new ordinances for each change
or amendment to said codes and guidelines.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 150.02 CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Building Code. The International Building Code (IBC), as adopted by
the state, is hereby adopted as the official building code for the city,
subject to §
150.03.
   (B)   Fire Code. The International Fire Code (IFC), as adopted by the state,
is hereby adopted as the official fire code for the city, subject to §
150.03.
   (C)   Other Codes as approved. All other building, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical, energy and/or natural gas codes established and adopted as standard
by the state at the time of adoption of the ordinance codified herein,
including their amendments, shall hereby become established as the adopted
codes of the city, subject to §
150.03.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
§ 150.03 SUCCESSOR CODES.
   The adoption of any and all codes, as established herein, as the adopted
codes of the city, shall also adopt any replacement or successor codes as they
become adopted by the state and shall become effective by the city immediately
upon passage by the state legislature.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOME PARKS AND TRAVEL TRAILER COURTS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Mobile home park regulations
   
151.03   Travel trailer courts
   
151.04   Additional regulations
   
151.05   Placement of manufactured homes, mobile homes and travel trailers
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPENDENT-INDEPENDENT UNITS. All units denominated either as a mobile home
or as a travel trailer or camper shall be denominated as to whether they are
dependent or independent. DEPENDENT UNITS shall be those which do not have a
toilet and bathtub/shower. No unit shall be treated as a mobile home for the
purpose of this chapter unless it shall be completely independent, having both
toilet and bathtub/shower.
   MAN CAMP. A temporary, mobile housing unit, wheeled or on a skid, which is
owned, operated or leased by an industrial entity, housing temporary commercial
workers. The unit must meet local building codes for property square footage,
setbacks and housing square footage per person. A building inspection fee will
be required at every setup.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A detached single-family dwelling unit not less than
1,050 square feet of living area or any combination thereof, designed for long
term occupancy, and to be transported on its own wheels or on a flatbed or
detachable wheels; containing a flush toilet, sleeping accommodations, a tub or
shower bath, kitchen facilities and attachment to appropriate external systems
ready for occupancy except for utility connection and other minor work.
Presectionalized, modular or prefabricated houses not placed on a permanent
foundation shall be regarded as MANUFACTURED HOMES; if placed upon a permanent
foundation, such structures which meet all applicable building and housing
codes shall not be considered as manufactured homes, but shall be regulated as
conventional housing; and manufactured homes which are so placed on permanent
foundations and meet all applicable building and housing codes shall be
regulated as conventional housing. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include
travel trailers, camper units, recreational vehicles, motor homes or man camps.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable living unit designed to be transported after
fabrication on its own wheels, attached wheels or lowboy; suitable for year
round occupancy and containing a flush toilet, sleeping accommodations, a tub
and/or shower bath, kitchen facilities, plumbing and electrical connections
provided for attachment to appropriate external systems. The term MOBILE HOME
shall not include conventional houses which are manufactured elsewhere and
moved into an area for use as permanent housing.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area or tract of land dedicated to use as an area for
parking and utilization of mobile homes, on a full or part time basis.
   RESIDENTIAL FENCING MATERIAL. Vinyl, masonry, wrought iron style (metal),
wood and chainlink. Fencing shall be of materials originally intended for
fencing and shall not include materials intended for other purposes.
RESIDENTIAL FENCING MATERIALS which are excluded are metal panels, barbed or
razor wire, and livestock fence.
   TRAVEL TRAILER, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or CAMPER. A portable vehicle with or
without motive power, designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation
or vacation use, that does not require a special highway movement permit when
drawn by a self-propelled motor vehicle.
   TRAVEL TRAILER COURT. An area or tract of land used to accommodate two or
more travel trailers, camper units, recreational vehicles, motor homes, camping
parties or man camps.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 020912-01, passed 2-9-2012;
Ord. 040314-01, passed 4-3-2014, eff. 4-3-2014)
§ 151.02 MOBILE HOME PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose, intent and approval.
      (1)   The purpose of these regulations is to provide appropriate areas
for the suitable development of mobile home parks and manufactured home
subdivisions. It is also to ensure that such facilities receive adequate
service and blend harmoniously with surrounding residential neighborhoods.
      (2)   The owners of a tract of land not less than 8,000 square feet, may
construct a mobile home park thereon upon compliance with regulations and
restrictions as herein set forth and after approval of such mobile home park by
the City Council.
   (B)   Plans and drawings.
      (1)   Content of plan. Before a permit shall be issued for a mobile home
park, six copies of the plan of the development must be submitted to the
Planning Commission or to the City Council for its review. The plan must show:
         (a)   The proposed street and mobile home layout;
         (b)   Proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds and open spaces;
         (c)   Tabulations showing the percent of area to be devoted to parks,
playgrounds and open spaces; also the number of mobile homes and the total area
in the mobile home park;
         (d)   Proposed location and number of parking spaces;
         (e)   Generalized landscaping plan; including water, sewer, electric
and gas lines, and fire hydrant locations;
         (f)   Storm drainage facilities and disposal plan for storm water
runoff; and
         (g)   Any other data that the City Council may require.
      (2)   Health Department approval. The plan must have written approval
from the State Department of Health.
      (3)   Submission; time limit. Applications for approval shall be in
writing, submitted to the City Council at its regular meeting and shall be
granted or denied within 30 days, unless an extension of such time is approved
by the applicant.
      (4)   Utility drawings. Three copies of detailed construction drawings
shall be supplied to and approved by the City Council. Such construction
drawings shall show the following:
         (a)   Profile and location of water and sewer lines;
         (b)   Location of water valves and fire hydrants;
         (c)   Location and size of water meters;
         (d)   Location and size of sewer manholes; and
         (e)   Storm water disposal plan.
   (C)   Standards and requirements.
      (1)   Density; common areas.
         (a)   The density in a mobile home park shall not exceed nine units
per acre. Mobile homes may be clustered within the mobile home park; provided,
that no single mobile home space shall be smaller in area than 4,000 square
feet.
         (b)   The remaining land not contained in individual lots, roads or
parking, shall be set aside and developed as parks, playgrounds and service
areas for the common use and enjoyment of the occupants of the development and
visitors thereto.
      (2)   Park and playground area. Not less than 10% of the gross area of
the mobile home park shall be set aside as playgrounds or recreational area for
the joint use of occupants. The land covered by vehicular roadways, sidewalks,
and off-street parking shall not be construed as part of the area required for
parks and playgrounds.
      (3)   Distance between structures. No mobile home or add-on shall be
located closer than 20 feet from the nearest portion of any other mobile home
or add-on.
      (4)   Planting. All areas not covered by mobile homes, hard surfacing,
buildings, off-street parking space or driveways shall be planted in lawns,
trees and/or shrubs and the like, or otherwise landscaped.
      (5)   Surfacing. All off-street parking spaces and driveways shall be
hard surfaced or graveled before the adjacent mobile home spaces may be
occupied.
      (6)   Storage and solid waste receptacles. All storage and solid waste
receptacles outside of the confines of a mobile home must be housed in an
enclosed structure compatible in design and construction to the mobile homes
and to any service buildings within the mobile home park. All patios, garages,
carports and other add-ons must be compatible in design and construction with
the mobile homes and with the service buildings as approved by the Planning
Commission.
      (7)   Roadways. Roadways shall be hard surface or graveled and of
adequate width to accommodate anticipated traffic, as follows:
         (a)   For one-way traffic with no parking. Twelve feet in width, plus
extra width as necessary for maneuvering mobile homes;
         (b)   For two-way traffic with no parking. Twenty four feet in width;
and
         (c)   For entrance streets. Minimum of 36 feet in width.
      (8)   Access. Access shall be provided to each mobile home space by means
of an accessway reserved for maneuvering mobile homes into position and shall
be kept free from trees and other immovable obstructions. Paving the access
shall not be required. Use of planks, steel mats or other means during the
placement of a mobile home shall be allowed so long as the same are removed
immediately after placement of the mobile home.
      (9)   Streets, public or private. Streets within a mobile home park may
be public or private, as determined to be in the best interests of the public
welfare by the City Council.
      (10)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided at the
rate of two parking spaces per mobile home space contained within the mobile
home park. In no case shall the parking space be located more than 100 feet
away from the mobile home space it is designed to serve.
      (11)   Code compliance. In addition to meeting the above requirements,
and conforming to the other laws of the city, all mobile home parks shall also
conform to requirements of the State Board of Health, and to the adopted fire
prevention code, which provisions are hereby adopted by reference, copies of
which are filed at the city office for use of the public, and all restrictions,
regulations and notations contained therein shall be made a part of this
chapter as if fully set forth herein. In the event of any conflict between said
regulations or codes and this section, this section shall take precedence.
      (12)   Utilities and other services. Utility lines and equipment shall be
located and constructed in conformity with good engineering and construction
practices and shall be in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances or
codes of the state.
      (13)   Fencing. When a proposed mobile home park will be adjacent to
existing single-family residences, such areas shall be screened, to a height of
six feet, from view off site by means of opaque residential fencing material or
landscaping as acceptable to the Planning Commission.
      (14)   Overflow parking. Applicant should have a dedicated space for
overflow parking.
      (15)   Sewer connection. The mobile home park shall be served by a
private sewer system connecting to the city sewer system upon entering the
public right-of-way. Each mobile home space shall be provided with a four-inch
sewer connection which shall be capped so as to prevent any escape of odors, or
possible damage to the sewer system.
      (16)   Sanitary drain. The mobile home sanitary drain shall be watertight
and self-draining, and shall be constructed of smooth plastic pipe or other
material approved by state and local plumbing laws and regulations. All sewer
mains will contain devices allowing access and cleaning of said lines at
locations separated by no more than 200 feet.
      (17)   Water. A supply of water shall be obtained from the public water
system. An adequate amount shall be piped to each mobile home lot through a
private system of a design acceptable to the City Council.
      (18)   Maintenance of lines. The owner of the mobile home park must
assume all responsibility for the maintenance of all water and sewer lines
within the mobile home park.
      (19)   Water and sewer bills and fees.
         (a)   The owner of the mobile home park will be responsible for the
payment of the water and sewer bills. The city will bill the owner for water
and sewer on all occupied spaces. An availability charge for every unoccupied
space must be paid on every sewer connection and/or stub in accordance with the
city EPA sewer ordinance.
         (b)   The water and sewer connection fees will be waived if the owner
of the mobile home park will assume all costs of installation.
      (20)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants of a design and in sufficient number
as approved by the City Council and the Fire Department shall be installed
according to city specifications.
      (21)   Electric. All electric, telephone and other service lines to each
mobile home lot shall comply with all currently adopted state and local laws
and regulations.
      (22)   Natural gas. All fuel lines shall be underground and, if metered,
said meters shall be arranged in a uniform manner.
      (23)   Street lighting. Street lighting shall be provided according to
safety standards in sufficient number and intensity to permit safe movement of
vehicles and pedestrians at night, and shall be effectively related to
buildings, trees, walks, steps and ramps.
      (24)   Refuse handling and receptacles. The storage, collection and
disposal of refuse in the mobile home park shall be managed so as to create no
health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding or accident hazards.
Satisfactory container racks or dumpsters shall be provided at permanent
locations convenient to mobile home spaces in areas screened from general view
and in sufficient quantity and capacity to prevent any refuse from overflowing
or blowing away.
   (D)   Review of plan. The City Council shall review the plan to determine
its compliance with all portions of the city code and ordinances. In
considering the plan, the City Council shall, among other things, make sure
that such developments shall constitute a residential environment of
sustainable desirability and stability, and that it will not adversely affect
amenities in the surrounding area. The City Council may require changes to be
made in the plan and development standards where it is determined by the City
Council such standards are necessary to ensure that the mobile home park will
mix harmoniously with joining or nearby uses, and comply with sewage, drain
fields and other code requirements.
   (E)   Agent for service of process. The developer and/or owner shall
establish and appoint an agent for the purpose of service of process, which
agent shall be authorized to receive process and represent fully the interests
of the owners in respect to continuing management and maintenance of the mobile
home park.
   (F)   Business license. Prerequisite to the operations of any mobile home
park in the city shall be the obtaining of a quarterly business license. Said
license shall be refused or revoked upon failure of the owner and/or operator
to maintain the park in accordance with the standards and requirements as
herein set forth. If the park is of a fragmented nature, each park consisting
of two or more mobile homes will be required to obtain a separate business
license. Said license fee will be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (G)   Building permit. A building permit shall be required before
construction may begin on any mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 151.03 TRAVEL TRAILER COURTS.
   (A)   Approval required. Travel trailer courts shall be permitted only after
approval of the City Council, subject to restrictions and conditions
hereinafter designated.
   (B)   Plan submitted. Before a permit shall be issued for a travel trailer
court, the overall plan of the court must be submitted to the City Council for
its review. The plan will show:
      (1)   Proposed road layout and trailer space;
      (2)   Proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds and other open space;
      (3)   A generalized landscape plan; and
      (4)   Any other data that the City Council may require.
   (C)   Standards and requirements. The travel trailer court shall conform to
the following standards and requirements.
      (1)   Access. All travel trailer courts shall have access to a main
arterial street as set forth in the major street plan of the city.
      (2)   Setback from public street. All travel trailers shall be set back
at least 20 feet from any public street.
      (3)   Roadways. All one-way roadways shall be at least 12 feet in width;
and all two-way roadways at least 20 feet in width, and all roadways shall be
hard surfaced or graveled.
      (4)   Landscaping. All areas within the court which are not hard
surfaced, including the 20-foot setback space, shall be landscaped and
maintained with lawns, trees and shrubs designed to provide privacy and noise
containment.
      (5)   Sizes of space. Each travel trailer space shall be at least 20 feet
in width and at least 40 feet in length.
      (6)   Business license. Prerequisite to the operations of any travel
trailer court shall be the obtaining of a quarterly license. The quarterly
license fee for travel trailer courts shall be in such amount as established by
resolution of the City Council. The license shall be issued only after an
inspection by the Building Official. It shall be unlawful to operate a travel
trailer court without first obtaining a license and said license shall be
refused or revoked upon failure of the owner and/or operator to maintain the
court in accordance with the standards and requirements as herein set forth.
      (7)   Code compliance. In addition to meeting the above requirements, and
conforming to the other laws of the city, all mobile home parks shall also
conform to requirements of the State Board of Health, and to the adopted fire
prevention code, which provisions are hereby adopted by reference, copies of
which are filed at the city office for use of the public, and all restrictions,
regulations and notations contained therein shall be made a part of this
chapter as if fully set forth herein. In the event of any conflict between said
regulations or codes and this section, this section shall take precedence.
   (D)   Guarantee of improvements.
      (1)   Required; form. In lieu of actual construction and completion by
the applicant and acceptance by the City Council of the improvements required
by this chapter, the applicant shall guarantee the installation and
construction of the required improvements within six months from the date of
approval by the City Council. The guarantee shall be in the form of either a
bond or irrevocable letter of credit in the amount specified in the submission
of bid by a competent authority, as provided by the applicant, and an
additional 25%. The bond or irrevocable letter of credit shall be made to the
city and retained by the city.
      (2)   Conditions for clearance. The Mayor or designated staff person
shall grant clearance only when the Building Inspector determines that all of
the following conditions are met:
         (a)   All of the improvements required have been satisfactorily
installed; and
         (b)   All required inspections have been satisfactorily passed.
      (3)   Release. The amount of the bond or letter of credit may be
released, providing the Building Inspector certifies in writing that the
conditions for release have been met. Release of a partial amount of the bond
or letter of credit for work completed shall not be granted.
      (4)   Forfeit. If the applicant does not comply with the conditions
specified within the time frame specified, the city shall declare the bond or
letter of credit forfeited and deposit the full amount to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 151.04 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Location conditions. It shall be unlawful to maintain an occupied
mobile home or travel trailer or camper in the city, except under the following
conditions:
      (1)   When located in a licensed mobile home park, mobile home
subdivision or travel trailer court in conformance with all the regulations
applicable to the park or court; and
      (2)   A mobile home may be installed as a residence on the owner’s
private property as long as the installation conforms to all the codes, laws,
regulations and ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Travel trailers.
      (1)   Storage. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit
storage of a travel trailer when not in use, on property of the owner, so long
as it is not utilized as a dwelling. Travel trailers shall not be stored on
property so as to obstruct the view of traffic or to create a nuisance for
adjoining property owners.
      (2)   Setback; time limited parking. All travel trailers shall be stored
at least 30 feet back from any public street in any residential zone. It shall
be unlawful to park a travel trailer on the public streets for a period of time
in excess of 72 hours.
   (C)   Add-on, auxiliary or temporary additions. No add-on, auxiliary
buildings or temporary additions shall be allowed in any trailer court or
mobile home park without prior consent of the Building Official.
   (D)   Nonconforming existing trailer courts. Existing trailer courts not in
compliance with this chapter shall constitute a nonconforming use, but shall be
subject to health and sanitary requirements as provided for in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 PLACEMENT OF MANUFACTURED HOMES, MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   (A)   Regulation. Manufactured homes, mobile homes and travel trailers shall
be regulated within the city in accordance with the rules and regulations set
forth herein.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EXCELLENT CONDITION. A condition similar to new, requiring no repairs or
repainting, and showing minor signs of wear.
      GOOD CONDITION. A condition of sound structure, showing some signs of
age, as reasonable wear, scratches and dents, requiring few, if any, repairs
and does not affect the structural integrity or exterior appearance.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. Includes father, mother, grandparents, great
grandparents, father-in-law, mother-in-law, siblings, siblings-in-law, children
and grandchildren.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A detached single-family dwelling unit not less than
1,050 square feet of living area or any combination thereof, designed for long
term occupancy, and to be transported on its own wheels or on a flatbed or
detachable wheels; containing a flush toilet, sleeping accommodations, a tub or
shower bath, kitchen facilities and attachment to appropriate external systems
ready for occupancy except for utility connection and other minor work.
Presectionalized, modular or prefabricated houses not placed on a permanent
foundation shall be regarded as MANUFACTURED HOMES; if placed upon a permanent
foundation, such structures which meet all applicable building and housing
codes shall not be considered as manufactured homes, but shall be regulated as
conventional housing; and manufactured homes which are so placed on permanent
foundations and meet all applicable building and housing codes shall be
regulated as conventional housing. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include
travel trailers, camper units, recreational vehicles, motor homes or man camps.
      MOBILE HOME. A transportable factory built housing unit constructed prior
to June 15, 1976, in accordance with a state mobile home code which existed
prior to the Federal Manufactured Housing and Safety Standards Act (HUD Code).
      NEW. A manufactured home direct from the factory and not having been
inhabited by any person.
      POOR CONDITION. A condition marked by structural damage, either interior
or exterior, or both, faded paint, leaks, broken doors and/or windows, obvious
dents and scratches, and in a general state of dereliction and neglect as to
constitute a safety risk, obvious eyesore or public nuisance.
      TEMPORARY. No intent of permanency and removal will take place in the
near future, not to exceed five years.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A portable vehicle without motive power, designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreation or vacation use, that does not
require a special highway movement permit when drawn by a self-propelled motor
vehicle and has a body width of less than eight feet and a body length of less
than 40 feet.
   (C)   Classification of manufactured homes. A manufactured home or mobile
home shall be limited to use as a single-family dwelling unit and be classified
into the following five classes:
      (1)   Class A. A new manufactured home certified as meeting the National
Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (effective June 15,
1976), of the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
      (2)   Class B. An unaltered, undamaged, used manufactured home certified
as meeting the federal standards specified in division (C)(1) above, and
continuing to be in excellent condition and safe and fit for residential
occupancy;
      (3)   Class C. An unaltered, undamaged, used mobile home, certified as
meeting prior state or federal codes and the NCSBCS/ANSI standard A225.1-1994,
annex D, in good to excellent condition and safe and fit for residential
occupancy;
      (4)   Class D. A manufactured home or mobile home, new or used, which has
been damaged as a result of neglect, fire, weather or road transporting, or
altered or modified as a result of the above or at the choice of owners, which
is in poor condition, and units which contain aluminum branch circuit and units
which were not manufactured to meet previous minimum codes and as a result
thereof are now determined to be unsafe, unsanitary or hazardous for occupancy;
and
      (5)   Class E. A manufactured home or mobile home categorized as a class
D home which may be brought up to good to excellent condition and into
compliance with the code applicable at the time of manufacture, and either the
NCSBCS/ANSI standard A225.1-1994, annex D, or the Federal Home Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974 (HUD Code).
   (D)   Placement.
      (1)   Travel trailers. It is unlawful to place any travel trailer or man
camp on any lot or parcel of land in the city and to use the same for permanent
human habitation, except when located in a travel trailer court.
      (2)   Manufactured homes, mobile homes. It is unlawful to place a
manufactured home or mobile home on any lot or parcel of land within the
incorporated portion of the city, except in compliance with the following:
         (a)   All manufactured homes shall be in compliance with the Federal
Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (HUD Code, as defined
herein), and all mobile homes shall be in compliance with NCSBCS/ANSI standard
A225.1-1994, annex D;
         (b)   When placed in a licensed mobile home park;
         (c)   When temporarily placed on the sales lot of a licensed
manufactured home or mobile home dealer for purposes of sale or repair; and
         (d)   When placed on a lot that complies with all of the regulations
of the zone in which the manufactured or mobile home is located, provided:
            1.   A residential dwelling is a permitted use in the zone and the
manufactured or mobile home is connected to an approved water supply and
domestic wastewater disposal system;
            2.   The owner of the manufactured or mobile home and/or the lot
owner applies for the appropriate building permit from the County Building
Official prior to bringing the manufactured or mobile home into the city or the
relocation of the home within the city;
            3.   The manufactured or mobile home is set on the lot in
conformance with applicable building and zoning codes and is attached to a
permanent foundation (constructed entirely of concrete, concrete products or an
approved equivalent) installed around the exterior of the mobile home which,
when completed, attaches the home to the ground in accordance with the plans
providing for vertical loads, uplift, lateral forces and frost protection, and
are in compliance with the applicable Building Code;
            4.   The running gear and hitch shall be removed from those
manufactured or mobile homes, which are entered on the tax rolls of the county
as real property;
            5.   With the exception of ownership of the manufactured or mobile
home being in one name and ownership of the property owner being in the name of
another, the manufactured or mobile home shall be entered on the tax rolls of
the county as real property;
            6.   The manufactured home or mobile home shall be of a
classification of A, B, C or E; provided, that a home with an E classification
complies with the criteria set forth in division (D)(2)(d)7. below.
Installation of class D homes is prohibited within the city; and
            7.   Class E homes may be allowed if the owner complies with the
following procedure:
               a.   Apply for a conditional building permit from the County
Building Inspector;
               b.   Obtain from the County Building Inspector a list of
necessary repairs required to bring the home into good to excellent condition
and to meet all applicable codes;
               c.   Obtain approval from the County Building Inspector for a
plan for completing the repairs;
               d.   Within 15 working days of receiving approval of the plan
for completion, sign a written agreement to abate in the event the owner fails
to timely comply with the plan;
               e.   Pay all building permit and inspection fees;
               f.   Upon compliance with all the above, the Building Inspector
shall issue a conditional building permit;
               g.   Complete the repairs within six months of the issuance of
the building permit. An additional extension may be granted upon the showing of
due diligence; and
               h.   Upon completion of all required repairs, the Building
Inspector shall release the bond, and consider the building permit to be
permanent.
      (3)   Certificate of occupancy. No manufactured home or mobile home shall
be occupied until it complies with this code and the County Building Inspector
issues a certificate of occupancy.
      (4)   Conditional use. The County Building Inspector may issue a
conditional use building permit for installation of manufactured homes or
mobile homes, waiving the requirements of divisions (D)(2)(d)3., (D)(2)(d)4.
and (D)(2)(d)5. above, upon the showing that the placement of the manufactured
home or mobile home is intended to be temporary and is necessary for housing in
the care of an immediate family member.
      (5)   Use as dwelling unit. It is unlawful to use manufactured or mobile
homes for storage sheds, workshops, animal shed/barn, or uses other than
dwelling units for human habitation.
   (E)   Permanent trailers. If a trailer or recreational unit is placed on a
lot for one year or more, and/or if the wheels are removed, or if the unit is
skirted and appears to be permanent, then the unit shall be considered to be
permanent and not “mobile” in any sense, and shall be taxed as a permanent
fixture upon the land, and shall comply with all appropriate codes.
   (F)   Abatement. In the event the owner fails to timely comply with the plan
approved pursuant to divisions (D)(2)(d)7.c. and (D)(2)(d)7.d. above, the city
shall proceed to abate the noncompliance and assess the cost of the abatement
against the owner.
   (G)   Procedure for abatement. Upon determination that the owner is in
noncompliance as set out in division (F) above, the County Building Inspector
shall notify the owner of such noncompliance and request the owner to abate the
noncompliance by correcting the deficiencies within 30 days. Should the owner
fail to correct the deficiencies as directed, the owner shall be instructed to
take the noncomplying manufactured home or mobile home to the county landfill,
or to otherwise remove it from the city within 30 days. If the owner fails to
comply with the notice, the County Building Official is authorized to employ
necessary assistance to remove the noncomplying mobile home or manufactured
home to the landfill, prepare an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in
the removal, including the expenses of the county, and mail a copy thereof to
the owner demanding payment within 20 days of the date of the mailing. Such
notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail and addressed
to the last known address of the property owner.
   (H)   Alternate methods of compelling payment. In the event the owner fails
to make payment of the amount set forth in said statement to the County
Treasurer within 20 days of the date of mailing, the Building Official may
either cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law or refer the
matter to the County Treasurer as provided in this chapter to be collected
through taxes.
   (I)   Collection by lawsuit. Collection of abatement expenses may be pursued
through the court with the city filing suit against the owner seeking the cost
of abatement, including attorney fees, interest and costs, and may execute on
any judgment it may obtain in the manner provided by law.
   (J)   Collection through taxes. Upon receipt of three copies of the itemized
statement of abatement expenses, the County Treasurer shall forthwith mail one
copy to the owner of the land, together with a notice that objection in writing
to the Board of County Commissioners may be made within 30 days to the whole or
any part of the statement so filed. The County Treasurer shall, at the same
time, deliver a copy of the statement to the Clerk of the Board of County
Commissioners. If objections to any statement are filed with the Commissioners,
they shall set a date for hearing, giving notice thereof, and upon the hearing
of the matter, fix and determine the actual costs of removal, and report their
findings to the County Treasurer. If no objections to the items of the account
are made within 30 days of the date of mailing, the County Treasurer shall
enter the amount of such statement on the assessment rolls of the county in the
column prepared for that purpose. The County Treasurer shall, within ten days
of the date of the action of the Board of County Commissioners upon any
objections filed, enter in the prepared column, upon the tax rolls, the amount
found by the Board to be the cost of removal. If current tax notices have been
mailed, the taxes so incurred may be carried over to the following year. After
the entry by the County Treasurer of the costs of removal, the amount so
entered shall have the force and effect of a valid judgment of the District
Court, and shall be a lien upon all real property of the owner, and shall be
collected by the County Treasurer at the time of and in the manner provided for
the payment of general taxes. Upon payment, a receipt shall be acknowledged
upon the general tax receipt issued by the County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 020912-01, passed 2-9-2012;
Ord. 040314-01, passed 4-3-2014, eff. 4-3-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to penalty
as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and/or the alternative hearing and
enforcement program as provided in
Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 020912-01, passed 2-9-2012;
Ord. 040314-01, passed 4-3-2014, eff. 4-3-2014)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
   
152.002   Findings of fact
   
152.003   Statement of purpose
   
152.004   Methods of reducing flood losses
Definitions
   
152.015   Definitions of words and phrases
General Provisions
   
152.030   Lands applicable
   
152.031   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
152.032   Compliance
   
152.033   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.034   Interpretation
   
152.035   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.050   Development permit
   
152.051   Administrator designated
   
152.052   Duties and responsibilities
   
152.053   Use of other base flood data
   
152.054   Information obtained and maintained
   
152.055   Alteration of watercourses
   
152.056   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.071   General standards
   
152.072   Specific standards
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 152.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has delegated the responsibility to local
government units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council does
ordain as follows.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 152.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)
§ 152.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions to specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 152.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4)
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.015 DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of the community on which
the federal emergency management agency has delineated areas of special flood
hazard designated as Zone A.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built
on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent
foundation when attached to the required utilities.
      (2)   The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include travel trailers, camper
units, recreational vehicles, motor homes or man camps.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally aboveground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   (a)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement.
         (b)   This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1) (Ord. 020912-01, passed 2-9-2012)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.030 LANDS APPLICABLE.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1)
§ 152.031 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated February 4,
1988, is adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
FIRM is on file at the city office.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2)
§ 152.032 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended or
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3)
§ 152.033 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4)
§ 152.034 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statute.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-5)
§ 152.035 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas of special flood hazard will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city, any
officer or employee thereof, or the federal emergency management agency for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter, or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-6)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.050 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Required. A development permit shall be obtained before construction
or development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
152.031.
   (B)   Application form. Application for a development permit shall be made
on forms furnished by the County Building Inspector, and may include, but not
be limited to:
      (1)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing; and
      (2)   Specifically, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure
has been floodproofed;
         (c)   Certification by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the floodproofing
criteria in §
152.072(B); and
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1)
§ 152.051 ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED.
   The County Building Inspector is hereby appointed to administer and
implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications
in accordance with its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2)
§ 152.052 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Duties of the County Building Inspector shall include, but not be limited
to, permit review:
   (A)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all development permits to determine that permits have been
obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required; and
   (C)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For the purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means
damage to adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to
physical changes of the channel and the adjacent over bank areas.
      (1)   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration.
      (2)   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then technical
justification (i.e., a registered professional engineer’s certification) for
the proposed development shall be required.
      (3)   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3)
§ 152.053 USE OF OTHER BASE FLOOD DATA.
   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
152.031, the County Building Inspector shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source as criteria for requiring that new construction,
substantial improvements or other development in Zone A are administered in
accordance with §
152.072.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-4)
§ 152.054 INFORMATION OBTAINED AND MAINTAINED.
   The information to be obtained and maintained shall include:
   (A)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement;
   (B)   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
      (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure has been floodproofed; and
      (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
152.050(B)(2)(c).
(Prior Code, § 11-4-5)
§ 152.055 ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSES.
   The city shall:
   (A)   Notify adjacent communities and the County Building Inspector prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency; and
   (B)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-6)
§ 152.056 INTERPRETATION OF FIRM BOUNDARIES.
   The City Engineer or Building Inspector shall make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions).
(Prior Code, § 11-4-7)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.071 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required:
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and capable
of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads; and
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement and capable of resisting the
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of anchoring may include, but are
not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. Specific requirements may be:
         (a)   Over the top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations,
with manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (c)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
         (d)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage; and
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
      (3)   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which contain at least 50 lots or five
acres (whichever is less).
   (E)   Encroachments. Encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development shall be prohibited in any
floodway unless a technical evaluation demonstrates that the encroachments will
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1)
§ 152.072 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §
152.053, the following standards are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      (1)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood elevation the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this section. Such
certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
152.050(B)(2)(c).
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2)
CHAPTER 153: LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Authority and jurisdiction
   
153.004   Public notice requirements
   
153.005   Applicability and permit requirements
   
153.006   Violations
   
153.007   Alternate procedure for violations
   
153.008   Interpretation
   
153.009   Repealer and effect
Administration
   
153.020   Decision making and administrative bodies
   
153.021   City Council
   
153.022   Planning Commission
   
153.023   Appeal authority and variances
   
153.024   Zoning Administrator
   
153.025   Staff support
   
153.026   Relief from personal liability
   
153.027   Meetings and public hearings
Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
153.040   Zoning by districts
   
153.041   Description of districts
   
153.042   Application procedure
Special Purpose Districts; Residential-Agricultural Overlay District
   
153.055   Purpose
   
153.056   Approval process
   
153.057   Standards
Property Development Standards
   
153.070   Purpose
   
153.071   Allowed minimum use of legal lots
   
153.072   Uses, buildings and structures to comply with district requirements
   
153.073   Allowed uses
   
153.074   Prohibited uses
   
153.075   Culinary water and sanitary sewer requirements
   
153.076   Certificate of occupancy required
   
153.077   Required yard area for one building only
   
153.078   Table of minimum lot and setback requirements
   
153.079   Accessory buildings and accessory uses
   
153.080   Smaller accessory buildings; exemption from building permit
   
153.081   Outside storage of inoperative vehicles prohibited
   
153.082   Floodplain standards
Supplementary Development Standards
   
153.095   Purpose
   
153.096   Residential facilities for persons with disability
   
153.097   Substance abuse facilities within area of school
   
153.098   Residential facilities for elderly persons
   
153.099   Sexually oriented businesses
   
153.100   Household pets
   
153.101   Home occupations
Amendments to General Plan and Zoning Ordinance
   
153.115   Scope
   
153.116   Public uses conform to general plan
   
153.117   Amendments to general plan
   
153.118   Procedures for amending general plan
   
153.119   Amendments to zoning ordinance and map
   
153.120   Procedures for amending zoning ordinance and map (rezone)
   
153.121   Criteria for approval of zoning text and/or map amendment
   
153.122   Notice of pending amendments
Land Use Applications
   
153.135   Purpose
   
153.136   Applicability
   
153.137   Application forms
   
153.138   Completeness of application determined
   
153.139   Payment of taxes and charges required
   
153.140   Withdrawal of application
   
153.141   Reapplication following denial
   
153.142   Inspections
   
153.143   Fee for processing applications
Definitions and Uses
   
153.155   Table of uses
   
153.156   Use definitions
Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures
   
153.170   Conformance required
   
153.171   Approval authority
   
153.172   Expansion of nonconforming use or noncomplying structure
   
153.173   Change of use
   
153.174   Termination of nonconforming use due to abandonment
   
153.175   Appeal
Conditional Uses
   
153.190   Issuance and purpose
   
153.191   Authority
   
153.192   Initiation
   
153.193   Findings and conditions
   
153.194   Procedure for obtaining approval
   
153.195   Revocation or modification of permit
Enforcement
   
153.210   Purpose and authority
   
153.211   Violations and building permits
   
153.212   Types of violations
   
153.213   Enforcement provisions
   
153.214   Procedures for enforcement
   
153.215   Revocation of approvals, permits and licenses
   
153.216   Stop work order
   
153.217   Appeal
Variances
   
153.230   Scope of authority; application
   
153.231   Use or supplementary regulation variance prohibited
   
153.232   Standards
   
153.233   Conditions
   
153.234   Decision of variance
   
153.235   Time limitation
Appeals
   
153.250   Appeal authorities
   
153.251   Maximum time allowed to file appeal
   
153.252   Requirements for appeal of land use authority decision
   
153.253   Condition precedent to judicial review
   
153.254   Action of appeal authority
   
153.255   Standard of review for appeals
   
153.256   District Court review
Subdivisions
   
153.270   Legislative declaration; subdivision defined
   
153.271   Subdivisions and planned unit developments
   
153.272   Intent
   
153.273   Fees and charges
   
153.274   Review process
   
153.275   Effect of designation
   
153.276   Amended plats
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the “Myton City Land
Use Ordinance”. This chapter may, in subsequent sections, be referred to as
“ordinance”, “the ordinance”, “this ordinance”, “this chapter”, “zoning
ordinance” or “subdivision ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is provided to implement the goals and policies of the city
general plan. This chapter provides reasonable consideration, among other
things, as to the character of the city, neighborhoods and other areas of the
city regarding the suitability for particular uses, and with a view to
conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate uses of
land throughout the city. This chapter also contains standards, provisions and
requirements intended to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens
and businesses of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.003 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   The City Council adopts this chapter pursuant to the Municipal Land Use
Development and Management Act, and as provided in UCA Title 10, Chapter 9a, as
amended, and all other authorities and provisions of state and federal
statutory and common law, as applicable. These regulations shall apply to all
land and all land uses within the municipal boundaries of the city, exempting
properties owned and operated by the state or the federal government;
properties held in trust for the Ute Indian tribe; and school districts to the
extent provided by UCA § 10-9a-305.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.004 PUBLIC NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   For all actions of the city requiring public hearings, the city shall
provide public notice and shall demonstrate that such public notice conforms to
the following requirements:
   (A)   General plan. Required notice of public hearings to consider general
plan or general plan amendment applications:
      (1)   Notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the area at least ten calendar days in advance of the
hearing;
      (2)   Posted in at least three public locations within the city; or on
the city’s official website;
      (3)   Written notice shall be sent, via first class mail, to each
affected entity, i.e., special service districts, school districts, utility
companies and the like; and
      (4)   Provide notice to the applicant.
   (B)   Land use ordinances; zoning map. Required notice of public hearings by
the Administrative Hearing Officer or on adoption or modification of land use
ordinances and/or zoning map:
      (1)   Notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the area at least ten calendar days in advance of the
hearing;
      (2)   Posted in at least three public locations within the city; or on
the city’s official website;
      (3)   Written notice shall be sent, via first class mail, to each
affected entity; and
      (4)   Notice shall be sent, via first class mail, to all property owners
within 300 feet of the property in question at least ten days in advance of the
hearing.
   (C)   Public meetings. Required notice of the date, time and place of public
meetings, at least 24 hours before the meeting:
      (1)   Posted in at least three public locations within the city; or on
the city’s official website; and
      (2)   Provide written notice to the applicant.
   (D)   Notification to applicant. For each land use application, the
recording secretary for the City Council, shall notify the applicant of the
date, time and place of each public hearing and public meeting to consider the
application and of any final action on the application.
   (E)   Adequate and proper notice. If notice given under authority of this
section, and authority of the Act, is not challenged under UCA § 10-9a-801 of
the Act, within 30 days after the meetings or action for which notice is given,
the notice is considered adequate and proper.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.005 APPLICABILITY AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Building permit, compliance required. No site preparation or building
construction for any building or structure shall be commenced without first
obtaining a building permit. No existing building or structure shall be moved,
altered or enlarged, nor shall any land, building or premises be used, designed
or intended to be used for any purpose or in any manner other than as allowed
by this chapter.
   (B)   Processing permit applications. All applications for building permits
shall be processed, reviewed and approved or denied, subject to the provisions
of this chapter, by the Duchesne County/Myton City Building Inspector. No
utility company shall hook up service without said building permit being
issued. No vacant land shall be occupied and used, and no building hereafter
erected shall be occupied or used, until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Duchesne County/Myton City Building Inspector.
   (C)   Entrance authorized. As provided by UCA § 10-9a-303, the city or
Duchesne County/Myton City Building Inspector is authorized to enter upon any
land at reasonable times to make examinations and surveys pertinent to the
preparation of its general plan and land use ordinances, and the enforcement
thereof.
   (D)   Authority to issue. All officials and employees with the duty or
authority to issue approvals, permits or licenses required by this chapter
shall require that such approvals, permits or licenses conform to the
provisions of this chapter, and shall not issue any approvals, permits or
licenses for uses, buildings or structures for any purpose in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter. Any approval, permit or license issued in violation
of this chapter shall be invalid.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.006 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, reconstruct, alter, maintain, extend, repair, move, remove,
demolish, occupy or use any building or structure, or to use any land, in
violation of any provision of this chapter, or any amendment thereof. Any
person, either as owner, lessee, occupant or otherwise, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, or any amendment thereof, or who interferes in any
manner with any person in the performance of a right of duty granted or imposed
upon him or her by the provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of a
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Penalty; fine. Any person in violation of this chapter who violates a
provision of this chapter, or fails to comply with any of the requirements
thereof, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Additional authority. In any case where a building or structure is
erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or
maintained, or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this
chapter or other regulation made under authority conferred hereby, the city, in
addition to other remedies legally available, may institute any appropriate
action or proceeding, including, but not limited to, injunction, mandamus,
abatement or any other appropriate actions to prevent such unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or
use, to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to prevent any illegal
act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.
   (D)   Establish violation necessary for injunction. The city need only
establish the violation to obtain the injunction.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-6) (Ord. 020912-02, passed 2-9-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.007 ALTERNATE PROCEDURE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The procedure in this section may be available in addition to all other
remedies available at law to the city to assure compliance with this chapter.
   (A)   Designation of Zoning Enforcement Official. The Mayor may designate a
Zoning Enforcement Official, whose duties and authority shall include, but not
be limited to:
      (1)   The investigation of apparent offenses under this chapter;
      (2)   Citation of those responsible for violations; and
      (3)   The initiation of necessary enforcement actions on behalf of, and
in conjunction with the appropriate prosecutorial authority.
   (B)   Notice of violation. The Zoning Enforcement Official is authorized to
serve a notice of violation or order on the person responsible for any action,
building or structure in violation of the provisions of this chapter, or in
violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this
chapter. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or
condition and the abatement of the violation. This notice shall inform the
violator of the section of this chapter which the Zoning Enforcement Official
believes has been violated, and shall contain an order outlining the steps
necessary to bring the property or use into compliance with this chapter, and
the time by which these steps must be taken. The notice shall also advise the
recipient of the appeals procedure set forth in this chapter. The notice shall
be served upon the owner or user personally or by certified mail, return
receipt requested.
   (C)   Appeal. Any person who receives such a notice may appeal the Zoning
Enforcement Official’s decision to the appeal authority within ten days, as
provided by and subject to the limitations contained in this chapter. The
failure to file or prosecute an appeal from a notice of apparent violation
shall create the conclusive presumption that the uses constitute a violation of
this chapter as provided in the notice.
   (D)   Failure to comply. The failure to comply with a “notice of apparent
violation and order to comply” shall constitute a separate violation of this
section. Upon such failure to comply, the Zoning Enforcement Official is
authorized to request the city’s prosecutorial authority to institute the
appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy
of the building or structure then found to be existing in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
The prosecutorial authority may also initiate appropriate criminal proceedings
for the original alleged violation, with the offender, upon conviction,
punished as provided in §
153.999.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-7) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 020912-02, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.008 INTERPRETATION.
   The following shall be observed in the application and interpretation of the
provisions of this chapter, except where the context clearly requires
otherwise:
   (A)   The words “shall” or “must” are mandatory. The words “should” and
“may” are permissive.
   (B)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural; words used in the
plural shall include the singular.
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between the text of this chapter and any
maps, or other material, the text of this chapter shall apply and control.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-8) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.009 REPEALER AND EFFECT.
   Upon its adoption by the City Council, this chapter shall take effect on the
date of adoption, and shall repeal the existing zoning ordinance and shall
govern and apply to the use of all lands lying within the municipal boundaries
of the city not exempted by §
153.003. The provisions of this chapter shall be construed to carry out the
purposes of this chapter and the purposes of the state enabling laws, including
UCA Title 10, Chapter 9a, and avoid conflict with the laws of the United States
of America, the state or any other limitations imposed by law. If any chapter,
section, division, provision, sentence or clause of this chapter is declared
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such determination shall
not impair the validity of the remainder of this chapter, which shall remain in
effect.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-9) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.020 DECISION MAKING AND ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES.
   The decision making bodies and officials identified within this chapter
shall have responsibilities for implementing and administering the general
plan, this chapter and other ordinances, as allowed by state law, and as
contained in UCA Title 10, Chapter 9a, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.021 CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The City Council shall have the following powers
and duties under this chapter to:
      (1)   Adopt and to initiate amendments to the general plan, and all
elements of the general plan;
      (2)   Adopt and to initiate amendments to this chapter and/or zoning map;
      (3)   Approve, approve with conditions, or deny all conditional use
applications;
      (4)   Establish a fee schedule by resolution for all approvals, permits
and licenses required by this chapter;
      (5)   Solicit the state property rights ombudsman to conduct a hearing
and a recommendation to the City Council if an applicant asserts a deprivation
of, or has been subject to, a taking of property without just compensation, or
asserts some other constitutional invalidity, as provided herein; and
      (6)   Take other action not expressly delegated to the Planning
Commission, appeal authority or Mayor.
   (B)   Effect of decisions; records maintained. All decisions of the City
Council made under this chapter, shall take effect on the date of the meeting
when the decision is made, unless a different date is established at the time
the decision is made. The minutes of all meetings of the City Council shall be
filed in the city office. All such records shall be available for public review
and access in accordance with the Government Records and Access Management Act,
UCA §§ 63A-2-101 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.022 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Created; authority; appointment. There is hereby created and
established a Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall be an advisory
body to the City Council on legislative matters pertaining to the general plan,
and this chapter. Members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed by the
Mayor, with advice and consent of the City Council.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have the following
powers and duties to:
      (1)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, the proposed general plan, any
proposed plan element, any amendments thereto, and to submit the proposed plan,
element or amendments to the City Council;
      (2)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, the proposed land use ordinance,
any amendments thereto, and to submit the ordinance or amendments thereto to
the City Council;
      (3)   Hear, review and recommend approval or denial of all applications
for a general plan amendment, zoning ordinance text amendment or zoning
districts map amendment (rezone);
      (4)   Hear, review and recommend approval, approval with conditions, or
denial of a conditional use application, to the City Council;
      (5)   Hear, review and recommend approval or denial of subdivision
applications to the City Council, as authorized by this chapter;
      (6)   Adopt bylaws, policies and procedures for the conduct of the duties
and meetings of the Planning Commission, for the consideration of applications
and for any other purposes deemed necessary by the Planning Commission;
provided, that such bylaws, policies and procedures shall be consistent with
all requirements of this chapter, which bylaws, policies and procedures shall
first be approved by the City Council before taking effect;
      (7)   Advise the City Council on all other matters as the Council may
direct; and
      (8)   Solicit the state property rights ombudsman to provide an advisory
opinion on any land use application.
   (C)   Membership, appointment, removal, terms and vacancies.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of at least three members;
      (2)   The members of the Planning Commission shall be residents of the
city;
      (3)   The Mayor, with advice and consent of the City Council, may remove
any member of the Planning Commission for a violation of this chapter, or any
policies or procedures adopted by the Planning Commission, following receipt of
a written complaint from another Planning Commission member or City Council
member filed against the Commission member;
      (4)   Members of the Planning Commission may be compensated on a per diem
basis, based upon meetings actually attended and reasonable and necessary
expenses, as determined by the City Council;
      (5)   All members of the Planning Commission shall serve a term of four
years. No member shall serve more than three consecutive terms. Terms shall
begin on the first Monday in February of each calendar year. Members’ terms are
to be staggered so that not more than one term shall expire each year;
      (6)   At an annual organizational meeting to be held the first regular
meeting in the new calendar year, and at other times as required, the members
of the Planning Commission shall recommend one of their members as Chair and
one of their members as Vice Chair to the City Council. The Chair and Vice
Chair shall serve a term of one year. In the absence of the Chair, the Vice
Chair shall act as Chair and shall have all powers of the Chair; and
      (7)   Planning Commission vacancies occurring for any reason shall be
filled by appointment by the Mayor with advice and consent of the City Council.
Vacancies of the Planning Commission occurring in ways other than through the
expiration of terms shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (D)   Records maintained. The Mayor shall assign the City Recorder to act as
the recording secretary to serve the Planning Commission. The recording
secretary shall keep the minutes of all proceedings of the Planning Commission,
which minutes shall be the official record of all proceedings before the
Planning Commission. All such records shall be available for public review and
access in accordance with the Government Records and Access Management Act,
being UCA §§ 63G-2-101 et seq.
   (E)   Conduct of meetings. No meeting of the Planning Commission shall be
called to order, nor may any business be transacted without a quorum consisting
of three members of the Planning Commission being present. To ensure a quorum
is present, the City Council liaison to the Planning Commission may be called
by the Chair to assist the Planning Commission in having three members present
by serving, for that meeting, as a voting ad hoc member of the Commission. The
Planning Commission shall transmit reports of its recommendations and decisions
to the City Council. Any member of the Planning Commission may also make a
concurring or dissenting report or recommendation to the City Council.
   (F)   Meeting schedule, hearings and procedures.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall establish a quarterly meeting
schedule;
      (2)   Special meetings may be requested by a majority of the Planning
Commission, or by the Chair; and
      (3)   When a matter is postponed due to lack of a quorum, the matter
shall be rescheduled to the next available Planning Commission meeting. The
recording secretary shall notify all members of the Planning Commission of the
date when the rescheduled matter will be heard by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.023 APPEAL AUTHORITY AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby created and established an appeal authority,
which shall be known as the Administrative Hearing Officer.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Administrative Hearing Officer shall hear and
decide:
      (1)   Variances from the terms of this chapter, with a finding of
unreasonable hardship, as required by UCA Title 10, Chapter 9a, as amended;
      (2)   Render decisions on determination of nonconforming uses and
noncomplying structures;
      (3)   Requests for the issuance of a building permit authorizing the
reconstruction, remodeling, expansion or enlargement of a noncomplying building
or structure;
      (4)   Hold hearings on appeals of code enforcement actions; and
      (5)   Meet on an as needed basis.
   (C)   Matters not considered. The Administrative Hearing Officer shall have
no power, jurisdiction or authority to consider any of the following:
      (1)   Any variances or waivers to any of the standards governing the
approval of a general plan amendment application, zoning ordinance amendment
application, zoning districts map amendment application, subdivision ordinance
amendment application, or any other approval, permit or license;
      (2)   Amendments to the general plan, any element or map thereof, or any
provision, requirement or map of this chapter, or any provision or requirement
of the subdivision ordinance;
      (3)   Make any decisions or determinations that would have the effect of
authorizing a use, which is not identified in the table of uses located in §
153.155; and
      (4)   Variances of unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-imposed
or economic.
   (D)   Appointment, removal and terms.
      (1)   The Administrative Hearing Officer (AHO) shall be contracted with
by the Mayor, with advice and consent of the City Council. The AHO shall be
appointed for a three-year term, unless terminated earlier as set out herein,
and may be reappointed for subsequent terms.
      (2)   The Administrative Hearing Officer should be law trained and
knowledgeable in civil code enforcement and due process.
      (3)   The Administrative Hearing Officer is a contract position, and is
not entitled to any of the benefits that the city provides for city employees.
      (4)   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, may
terminate the Administrative Hearing Officer’s contract by written notice for
violation of this chapter.
      (5)   The Mayor shall assign a staff person to act as the recording
secretary to serve the Administrative Hearing Officer. The recording secretary
shall keep the minutes of all proceedings of the hearing, which minutes shall
be the official record of all proceedings before the Hearing Officer. The
minutes of all hearings of the Administrative Hearing Officer shall be filed in
the city office. All such records shall be available for public review and
access in accordance with the Government Records and Access Management Act, UCA
§§ 63A-2-101 et seq., as amended.
      (6)   All decisions of the Administrative Hearing Officer shall be final
and shall take effect on the date of the meeting when the decision is made,
unless a different date is designated at the time the decision is made.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.024 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Designated. The Mayor, with advice and consent of the City Council,
may designate a person to carry out the administrative responsibilities of this
chapter. The person so designated is referred to herein as the “Zoning
Administrator” (ZA).
   (B)   Responsibilities, powers and duties.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to ensure all
administrative processes, procedures and other provisions of this chapter are
consistently and equitably applied.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the following powers and
duties:
         (a)   Render final administrative decisions and interpretations of
this chapter;
         (b)   Provide a determination of all permitted, conditional and
temporary uses;
         (c)   Approve, approve with revisions, or deny all site plan
applications to establish a permitted use proposing to occupy an existing
building, or proposing to modify the interior of an existing building; and
         (d)   Approve, approve with revisions, or deny a temporary use
application.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.025 STAFF SUPPORT.
   The city staff shall provide support and assistance to the City Council,
Planning Commission, Administrative Hearing Officer and Zoning Administrator,
as required, to effectively implement the general plan and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-6) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.026 RELIEF FROM PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, any member of the Planning Commission or the
Administrative Hearing Officer, the County/City Building Inspector, or city
staff who acts in good faith and without malice in the discharge of their
duties within the official capacity provided in this chapter, is relieved of
all personal liability for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as
a result of such acts or alleged failure to act.
   (B)   Further, the official shall not be held liable for any costs in any
action, suit or proceedings that may be instituted by the official in the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Defense costs and insurance shall be the responsibility of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-7) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.027 MEETINGS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   All meetings and hearings of the City Council, Planning Commission and
Administrative Hearing Officer required by this chapter shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter for such meetings and hearings, and the requirements
of Utah Code Annotated, as amended, for open and public meetings.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-8) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.040 ZONING BY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   To carry out the provisions of this chapter and the general plan, the
city is divided into zone districts.
   (B)   The map accompanying this chapter, the “Myton City zoning map”, and
incorporated herein by reference, identifies the location and distribution of
each zoning district provided by the city. It is intended that the boundaries
of the zone districts shown on the zoning map will not be easily changed unless
it is demonstrated that the character of an area has so changed that amending
the zoning map is in the public interest.
   (C)   All uses, activities and all required approvals, permits and licenses
shall be found to conform to the provisions, standards and requirements of the
applicable zoning district.
   (D)   The city is divided into the following districts:
R-15     Residential Single-Family, Low Density
R-7.5    Residential Single-Family, Medium Density
MU-1     Mixed Use
C-1      Commercial, Extensive
Special purpose districts/overlay zones:
   RA-Residential-Agricultural
   MHPMobile Home Park
   MHPOverlay Zone/Special District
   RV-Overlay Zone/Special District
 
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 020912-01, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.041 DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   R-15 Residential Single-Family, Low Density. The R-15 District is
provided to allow low density residential neighborhoods with a quality of
openness and provide for certain rural amenities, on larger minimum lots. The
District is intended to promote and preserve single-family residential
development. The principal land use is single-family dwellings and incidental
and accessory uses located in a rural environment, and removed from the central
core of the city.
   (B)   R-7.5 Residential Single-Family, Medium Density. The R-7.5 District is
to accommodate a need for moderate density residential uses by providing
opportunities for both single-family and two-family dwelling units, and located
closer to the central core of the city.
   (C)   MU-1 Mixed Use. The MU-1 District is to provide opportunities to
create land use patterns that provide for a complementary and compatible mix of
uses. The MU-1 District allows a combination of compatible residential and
nonresidential uses, such as small retail stores, professional offices and
commercial services necessary to satisfy the requirements of the residents of
the city, while also providing for single-family dwellings.
   (D)   C-1 Commercial, Extensive. The C-1 District is intended to provide
suitable areas for the location of various types of commercial activity needed
to serve the commerce of the area. The development standards provided for this
district are intended to minimize any adverse effect of commercial areas on
adjoining areas by achieving maximum compatible integration of land uses, by
preserving the aesthetic qualities of the area, while providing safe and
efficient uses.
   (E)   Special Purpose Districts/Overlay Zones. These districts/zones are
designed to overlay or be superimposed over existing zoning within a defined
regular zone. When special districts or overlay zones are employed, the
existing zone remains effective with the additional conditions superimposed by
the overlay zone as determined by the Planning Commission or as set out
elsewhere in this code, and all boundaries, notations and other data shown on
any map(s) depicting the existing zone is made by this reference as much a part
of this section as if fully described and detailed herein. Such an overlay zone
can be interchangeably referred to as a floating zone because the existing zone
remains effective except for the conditions superimposed by the overlay zone.
The allowed uses are confined to the boundaries of their respective zones
within the overlay zone or special purpose districts and are provided to meet
specific needs and goals of the city as follows.
      (1)   RA-1 Residential-Agricultural. The RA-1 is an overlay within the R-
15 District for semiagricultural uses, i.e., keeping of livestock, excluding
swine, and located in proximity to the city boundary.
      (2)   MHP-1 Mobile Home Park. Approval only through the conditional use
permit process and upon demonstration that the conditional use is appropriate
for a particular site within the R-7.5 District, considering such factors as
existing utility availability, access, visual aesthetics and so on.
      (3)   MHP Overlay Zone/Special District. These overlay uses, other than
MHP-1s, shall be located only in R-7.5 or C-1 and only as permitted by the
Planning and Zoning Board as a conditional use.
      (4)   RV-1 Overlay Zone/Special District. This overlay use, shall be
located only in R-7.5 or C-1 and only as permitted by the Planning and Zoning
Board as a conditional use to accommodate travel trailer courts.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 020912-01, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.042 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the Special Purpose Districts/Overlay Zones, any person, persons,
groups, agencies, partnerships or corporations who desire to develop in a
designated overlay zone or special district must obtain a conditional use
permit application from the Planning Commission office.
   (B)   Said permit must be filled out and returned to said office with a
sepia of the proposed development site plan.
   (C)   The Planning Commission staff will present the application and site
plan to the Planning Commission at the Planning Commission’s next regularly
scheduled meeting. The Planning Commission will at that time determine what
reviews of the site plan, if any are necessary to satisfy the concerns of this
chapter.
   (D)   Recommendations received under this section are in no way binding on
the decision of the Planning Commission to grant a conditional use permit, or
overlay or special district status but the Planning Commission may incorporate
the recommendations as conditions of approval of a conditional use permit and/
or the granting of overlay or special district status.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-3) (Ord. 020912-01, passed 2-9-2012)
SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICTS; RESIDENTIAL-AGRICULTURAL OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 153.055 PURPOSE.
   The RA-1 Residential-Agricultural Overlay District is provided to allow the
keeping of domestic livestock, limited to horse, domesticated cattle,
domesticated sheep, domesticated goat and domestic fowl, but excluding the
keeping of pigs, and limited to the R-15 Residential Single-Family District
only.
(Prior Code, § 10-4A-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.056 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   The establishment of an RA-1 Residential-Agricultural Overlay District
requires the approval of a zoning district map amendment application by the
City Council, following the recommendation of the Planning Commission, as
provided in §§
153.115 through
153.122.
(Prior Code, § 10-4A-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.057 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot size maintaining livestock or fowl. No domestic livestock or fowl
shall be kept on any lot smaller than 22,500 square feet.
   (B)   Number permitted. The number of domestic livestock or fowl that may be
kept on lots larger than 22,500 square feet is established in §
153.156 (see definition of “domestic livestock and fowl”).
   (C)   Corrals. Corrals for the keeping of domestic animals shall be a
minimum of 50 feet from any and all residential dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 10-4A-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 153.070 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of general property development standards is to further
the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Compliance with all general development standards, as well as all
other requirements of this chapter, and all other federal, state and local
requirements, as applicable, is required for the issuance of any approval,
permit or license.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
Cross-reference:
   Flood control, see
Chapter 152
   Public nuisances, see §
91.02(D)(1) and (D)(2)
   Standards, see §
153.057
§ 153.071 ALLOWED MINIMUM USE OF LEGAL LOTS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the establishment of
one single-family dwelling on any legal lot that meets the minimum lot size and
is located in a zoning district that permits single-family dwellings, and all
proposed construction can qualify for a site plan and building permit approval
as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.072 USES, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES TO COMPLY WITH DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every building or structure erected, reconstructed, altered, enlarged
or moved, and every building, structure or land, rearranged, designed or
intended for any use shall be built or used only as allowed by the requirements
of this chapter and the zoning district in which such building, structure, land
or use is located.
   (B)   (1)   A $750 monetary bond shall be required for a percentage of
completion on a landscaping plan that will be required upon application for a
building permit.
      (2)   This $750 bond will be refundable upon receiving a permanent
occupancy permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 040314-01, passed 4-3-2014,
eff. 4-3-2014)
§ 153.073 ALLOWED USES.
   All uses allowed within the city, either as a permitted, conditional or
temporary use, are identified in the table of uses, located in §
153.155.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.074 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses not specifically provided in the table of uses, either as a
permitted, conditional or temporary use are hereby identified to be prohibited
uses in the residential, residential-agriculture and mobile home park zoning
districts.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.075 CULINARY WATER AND SANITARY SEWER REQUIREMENTS.
   All primary buildings requiring culinary water, secondary water when it
becomes available, and sanitary sewer services, shall be connected to the
public culinary water and sanitary sewer systems of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-6) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.076 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   Determination by Building Inspector.
      (1)   No building shall be occupied or used until a certificate of
occupancy, as applicable, has been issued by the Duchesne County/Myton City
Building Inspector.
      (2)   Prior to issuing a certificate of occupancy, the Building Inspector
shall determine:
         (a)   That all construction has been completed, as authorized by a
valid building permit;
         (b)   The establishment of the use is authorized as provided by valid
approvals; and
         (c)   The building and use comply with all approvals, permits and
licenses, as required by this chapter, and all other applicable requirements.
   (B)   Unlawful without certificate.
      (1)   It is unlawful to use or occupy, or to permit the use or occupancy
of, any building or structure, unless a certificate of occupancy has been
issued for such building or structure, as required by this section.
      (2)   It is unlawful to use or occupy, or to permit the use or occupancy
of, any building or structure with a use or occupancy different than that
provided by the certificate of occupancy. Failure to obtain a certificate of
occupancy shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Public nuisance declared. The use or occupancy of any building,
structure or premises for which a certificate of occupancy has not been issued
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be cited and abated as such.
It shall also be a public nuisance for any building, structure or premises to
be used or occupied in a manner different than authorized by a certificate of
occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-7) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.077 REQUIRED YARD AREA FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY.
   (A)   Yard, setback area. No required yard or setback area for any building
or lot required for the purposes of complying with this chapter shall be
considered as providing the required yard or setback for any other building or
lot.
   (B)   Area. No area needed to meet the minimum lot size, setback or other
requirements of this chapter may be divided, sold or leased separate from such
lot or building.
   (C)   Road frontage required. The city shall require 100 feet of road
frontage; a corner lot shall require 200 feet of road frontage for building
purposes. All buildings shall require front doors facing the frontage street.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-8) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 040314-01, passed 4-3-2014,
eff. 4-3-2014)
§ 153.078 TABLE OF MINIMUM LOT AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Table. The table of minimum lot and setback requirements identifies
the lot size and building location requirements for primary buildings in each
zoning district provided by this chapter. General development standards and
supplementary development standards shall also be considered and are provided
in this chapter and §§
153.095 through
153.101.
Table of Minimum Lot and Setback Requirements
Site Requirements R-15 R-7.5 RA-1 MU-1 C-1
Table of Minimum Lot and Setback Requirements
Site          R-15        R-7.5         RA-1        MU-1          C-1
Requirements
                                                    15,000 sq.
                                                    ft. for
Minimum lot   15,000 sq.  7,500 sq. ft. 22,500 sq.  commercial;   BC
size          ft.                       ft.         7,500 sq. ft.
                                                    for
                                                    residential
Minimum lot   100 ft.     50 ft.        150 ft.     100 ft.       BC
width
Minimum front 20 ft.      20 ft.        20 ft.      20 ft.        BC
yard setback
Minimum side  BC          BC            BC          BC            BC
yard setback
Minimum rear  BC          BC            BC          BC            BC
yard setback
Maximum       35 ft. as   35 ft. as     35 ft. as   35 ft. as     50 ft. as
building      measured by measured by   measured by measured by   measured by
height        BC          BC            BC          BC            BC
Note: BC = Building Code standard
 
   (B)   Exception to height limitations. The height limitations contained in
this chapter do not apply to spires, cupolas, antennas, water tanks,
ventilators, chimneys or other appurtenances usually required to be placed
above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy.
   (C)   Less than one story above grade not permitted. No primary building
shall be erected to a height less than one story entirely above grade.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-9) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.079 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory buildings and accessory uses are permitted in conjunction with any
primary building or use. All accessory buildings or accessory uses shall only
be permitted concurrently with, or following, the establishment of the primary
building or primary use. Accessory buildings may be attached to, or detached
from, the primary building, except all accessory buildings housing animals or
fowl shall be located at least 50 feet from the primary building. The location
of all accessory buildings shall meet the required yard setback applicable in
the zone. No mobile home, travel trailer or similar recreational vehicle shall
be used as an accessory building. No accessory building shall be used as a
dwelling for human occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-10) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.080 SMALLER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS; EXEMPTION FROM BUILDING PERMIT.
   All accessory buildings with a height of ten feet or less and a size less
than 200 square feet shall not require a building permit, provided all setback
requirements for the zone in which the accessory building is located are met.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-11) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.081 OUTSIDE STORAGE OF INOPERATIVE VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No required yard area (minimum area requirement) shall be used for the
outside storage of inoperative vehicles, whether attended or not, upon any
private property within the city for a period of time in excess of two months,
except that three or fewer such vehicles, or parts thereof, may be stored if
within a building, or placed behind an opaque screening fence. For the purposes
of this chapter, any vehicle that is not currently licensed and insured to the
minimum levels established by state law shall be considered inoperable.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-12) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.082 FLOODPLAIN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by the following provisions, to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, and streets located in
areas of special flood hazard; and
      (5)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
   (B)   Geotechnical report required. In order to accomplish these purposes,
all applications for a permitted use, conditional use, site plan, building
permit, or any other approval, permit or license, as required herein, shall be
required to provide a geotechnical report for any land area or parcel that has
the potential for any special flood hazard. The areas of special flood hazard
are identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a map entitled
“flood insurance rate map” (FIRM), dated February 4, 1988. The geotechnical
report shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Be prepared at the applicant’s expense by a registered or licensed
geologist, soils engineer or civil engineer; and
      (2)   Identify the suitability of the subject property to accommodate the
proposed development, identifying all development constraints, limitations,
conditions and mitigation actions, applying best management practices.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-13) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
SUPPLEMENTARY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 153.095 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of supplementary development standards is to further the
purposes of this chapter, and address the use, location, construction and
operation of particular uses and activities. Compliance with supplementary
development standards, as applicable, as well as all other requirements of this
chapter, and all other federal, state and local requirements is required for
the issuance of any required development approval, license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.096 RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITY.
   (A)   Code compliance. No residential facility for persons with a disability
shall be established unless it is proposed in a building that complies with all
building, fire and health codes, as adopted, and this chapter, applicable to
similar structures in the zoning district in which the residential facility for
persons with a disability is proposed, and all requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   State license required. At the time of application for either a
permitted or a conditional use permit to establish a residential facility for
persons with a disability, the owner or provider shall provide to the city
evidence that the facility is licensed by the State Department of Human
Services for the type of facility being considered by the city. The City
Council shall condition any conditional use approval on the presentation of
evidence that the facility is licensed by the State Department of Human
Services, as required by this division (B). Failure to provide such evidence
shall be grounds for the city to invalidate any existing or pending approvals.
   (C)   Number of occupants. No residential facility for persons with
disabilities shall be approved that would allow more than four occupants.
   (D)   State responsibility. The responsibility to license programs, or
owners or providers that operate a residential facility for persons with
disability, as well as require and monitor the provision of adequate services
to consumers residing in these facilities, shall rest with the State Department
of Human Services.
   (E)   Nontransferable permit. A permit to operate a residential facility for
persons with disability, as authorized by this section, is nontransferable and
shall only be valid to the owner or provider identified on the application
authorizing the operation of the facility, and as identified as the owner or
provider as licensed by the state department of human services. A conditional
use permit to operate a residential facility for persons with disability
terminates if the building is devoted to another use or if the building fails
to comply with any of the standards established herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.097 SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES WITHIN AREA OF SCHOOL.
   (A)   Requirements generally. All requirements applicable to a residence for
persons with a disability shall apply.
   (B)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements for a residential facility for
persons with a disability, the following requirements shall apply to all
residences for persons with a disability that are substance abuse facilities
and proposed within 500 feet of a school.
      (2)   In accordance with the rules established by the Department of Human
Services under UCA Title 62a, Chapter 2, licensure of programs and facilities,
the residential facility shall provide:
         (a)   A security plan satisfactory to the County Sheriff’s Department;
         (b)   Twenty-four-hour supervision for residents; and
         (c)   Other 24-hour security measures.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.098 RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS.
   (A)   Application; nontransferable permit. A residential facility for
elderly persons shall be reviewed as either a permitted or a conditional use
land use application. The approval of a residential facility for elderly
persons is nontransferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use
other than a residential facility for elderly persons, or if the structure
fails to comply with the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Number of occupants. No residential facility for elderly persons shall
be approved that would allow more than four occupants.
   (C)   Prohibited persons. No person being treated for alcoholism or drug
abuse be placed in a residential facility for elderly persons.
   (D)   Requirements. No residential facility for elderly persons shall be
established unless:
      (1)   It is proposed in a building that complies with this chapter and
adopted building code, and is comparable to similar structures in the zoning
district in which the facility is proposed;
      (2)   The residential facility for elderly persons proposes no
fundamental change in the character of the residential neighborhood; and
      (3)   Placement in a residential facility for elderly persons be on a
strictly voluntary basis and not part of, or in lieu of, confinement,
rehabilitation or treatment in a correctional facility.
   (E)   Modifications. The land use authority, in reviewing an application to
establish a residential facility for elderly persons, may, to the extent
necessary, modify the requirements of this section, if such modifications are
necessary to make a reasonable accommodation to afford persons residing in such
facilities equal opportunity in the use and enjoyment of the facility.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.099 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to
regulate sexually oriented businesses, to promote the health, safety, morals
and general welfare of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses within the city, thereby helping to reduce and eliminate
the adverse secondary effects from such sexually oriented businesses. The
provisions of this section have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent or
effect of this section to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment or the Utah Constitution,
or to deny access by the distribution and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market; neither is it the intent or effect of
this section to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   (B)   Location requirements.
      (1)   No sexually oriented business or an adult entertainment
establishment shall be located within 200 feet of the exterior boundary of any
residential zone district.
      (2)   No sexually oriented business or an adult entertainment
establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of any religious institutions,
K through 12 educational institutions, parks and playgrounds, licensed daycare
centers, or any other adult entertainment use, whether such adult entertainment
use is within or without the city.
      (3)   The method of measurement for the distance restriction shall be
computed by direct measurement from the exterior boundary of any area
identified above, or from the nearest property line of the property upon which
an adult entertainment business or establishment or other adult entertainment
use is conducted, to the nearest property line of the property whereon the
building in which an adult entertainment use is to occur.
   (C)   Nudity. No licensee, manager or employee mingling with the patrons of
a sexually oriented business or serving food or drinks shall be nude or in a
state of nudity. It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this section
that an employee of a sexually oriented business exposed any specific
anatomical area during the employee’s bona fide use of a restroom, or during
the employee’s bona fide use of a dressing room which is accessible only to
employees. Further, no licensee or employee shall encourage or knowingly permit
any person on the premises to engage in specified sexual activities.
   (D)   Advertising. Advertisements, displays or other promotional material
depicting adult entertainment uses shall not be shown or exhibited to be
visible to the public from pedestrian sidewalks or walkways, or from other
public or semipublic areas.
   (E)   Number permitted. Only one sexually oriented business or an adult
entertainment establishment use shall be permitted per building; or, in other
words, no building, premises, structure or other facility that contains any
sexually oriented business shall contain any other kind of sexually oriented
business therein.
   (F)   Obstruction of view. All building openings, entries and windows shall
be located, covered or screened in such a manner as to prevent a viewing to the
interior from any public or semipublic area; for new construction, the building
shall also be oriented so as to minimize any possibility of viewing the
interior from public or semipublic areas.
   (G)   Minors. No one under 21 years of age shall be admitted to any sexually
oriented business or an adult entertainment establishment of any kind. The
foregoing minimum age limitations also apply to any employees, agents, servants
or independent contractors working on the premises during the hours when adult
entertainment is being presented.
   (H)   Responsibility of owners, employees; hours; activities. It shall be
unlawful for a sexually oriented business or an adult entertainment
establishment to be open for business, or for the licensee or any employee of a
licensee to allow patrons upon licensed premises, or to permit any employee to
engage in a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a service or
solicit a service, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any
particular day. Further, it shall be unlawful, if working as an employee of a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether a license has been issued for
said business under this chapter, to engage in a performance, solicit a
performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a service or solicit a
service between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any particular day.
   (I)   Specified sexually activities prohibited. It shall be unlawful for an
adult entertainment establishment and/or a sexually oriented business, or for
the licensee or any employee of a licensee thereto, regardless of whether a
license has been issued for said business under this chapter, to knowingly
allow any patron upon the premises to engage in a specified sexual activity, as
set out in UCA § 32B-1- 505, while on said premises. It shall also be unlawful
for any licensee or employee of an adult entertainment establishment,
regardless of whether a license has been issued for said business under this
chapter, to engage in a specified sexual activity while on the premises of said
adult entertainment establishment. The foregoing conditions contained in this
section are promulgated pursuant to the terms of this chapter and UCA Title 76,
Chapter 10, as amended.
   (J)   Violation. Any person or entity who operates or causes to be operated
an adult entertainment establishment who violates any provision contained in
this chapter or does not have a valid license is subject to a suit for
injunction and is subject to civil and criminal penalties as set forth in §
153.006.
   (K)   Public nuisance. Any adult entertainment establishment which engages
in repeated or continuing violations of these regulations shall constitute a
public nuisance. For purposes of these regulations, REPEATED VIOLATIONS shall
mean two or more violations of any provision set forth herein within one year
dating from the time of a new violation, and a continuing violation shall mean
a violation of any provision set forth herein lasting for three or more
consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. passed 8-15-2006) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.100 HOUSEHOLD PETS.
   The keeping of household pets for noncommercial purposes shall comply with
the following requirements.
   (A)   Manner of keeping. All household pets shall be kept in such a manner
that they do not disturb the peace, comfort or health of any person or animal.
   (B)   Premises maintained. Yards, shelters, cages, areas, places and
premises where they are kept shall be maintained so that flies or odors do not
disturb the peace, comfort or health of any person or animal.
   (C)   Keeping and maintenance. The keeping and maintenance for all household
pets shall be conducted in compliance with all other requirements of this
chapter.
   (D)   License required; rabies immunization. All dogs six months old or
older must have a city license. All dogs shall be immunized against rabies,
prior to issuance of a license.
   (E)   Cruelty prohibited. No person shall be allowed to treat household pets
cruelly.
   (F)   At large. It shall be unlawful for any owner of any dog to permit the
dog to go beyond the premises of such owner unless restrained by a chain or
leash and under the reasonable control of some person.
   (G)   Barking or annoying dogs. No person shall harbor or keep any dog
which, by loud or frequent or habitual barking, yelping or howling, shall cause
a serious annoyance to the neighborhood, or to people passing on the street.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-6) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.101 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The home occupation is an accessory use consisting of
a vocational activity conducted inside a dwelling unit, conducted only by the
individuals who reside therein; provided, that the home occupation is clearly
subordinate to the use of the parcel for dwelling purposes. The following home
occupations may be permitted in a residence in any residential zone district:
      (1)   Artist or craft studio;
      (2)   Clothing alterations;
      (3)   Daycare providers operating a home daycare with no more than five
children present at any given time;
      (4)   Haircutting;
      (5)   Light assembly; and
      (6)   Office for the conduct of a business or profession.
   (B)   Outside storage prohibited. No outside storage of goods, materials or
equipment shall be allowed.
   (C)   Previously approved occupations; nuisance created. Home occupations
which were previously and lawfully approved, prior to adoption hereof, shall be
allowed to continue as long as a nuisance is not established. If a home
occupation was lawfully established and a nuisance resulting from the home
occupation is determined to exist after the establishment of the home
occupation, the city shall allow the property owner 90 days in which to correct
the nuisance, relocate the use or terminate use of the property for the home
occupation.
   (D)   Home occupations permitted as conditional uses. Home occupations,
other than those specified in division (A) above, may be permitted, if approved
as a conditional use; provided, that the home occupation use is permitted as
either a use by right or a conditional use in the zone district in which the
residence (home) is located.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-7) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
AMENDMENTS TO GENERAL PLAN AND ZONING ORDINANCE
§ 153.115 SCOPE.
   The general plan, with accompanying maps, shall be considered an advisory
policy document for the purposes of this chapter, as provided herein, and the
management and guidance of growth and development occurring in the city, and
the provisions of required infrastructure and services provided by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-0) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.116 PUBLIC USES CONFORM TO GENERAL PLAN.
   After the City Council adopted the general plan, with accompanying
transportation map, and any amendments thereto, no street or other public way
may be constructed or authorized until and unless:
   (A)   It conforms to the general plan, including consistency with the
transportation circulation map; or
   (B)   It has been considered by the Planning Commission and, after receiving
public input and the advice of the Planning Commission, approved by the City
Council as an amendment to the general plan.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.117 AMENDMENTS TO GENERAL PLAN.
   A proposed amendment to the general plan or maps may be initiated by any
city property owner, any city resident, any city business owner, the City
Council or Planning Commission, by filing a general plan amendment application.
An application for an amendment to the general plan shall be filed with the
city.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.118 PROCEDURES FOR AMENDING GENERAL PLAN.
   (A)   Completeness of application. A general plan amendment application
shall be considered by the city for application completeness.
   (B)   Public hearing. Prior to recommending the adoption, rejection or
revision of any general plan amendment application, the Planning Commission
shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the procedures of this chapter
and Utah Code Annotated. The minimum notice required for the Planning
Commission public hearing shall be as required by §
153.004.
   (C)   Recommendation to City Council. After the Planning Commission has
reviewed the application and made its recommendation, the Planning Commission
shall transmit to the City Council a copy of the Planning Commission’s
recommendation and the meeting minutes, all public comments and all other
relevant materials of the proceedings before the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission recording secretary shall place the general plan amendment
application on the agenda of a regularly scheduled public meeting for the City
Council to consider the Planning Commission recommendation for the general plan
amendment application.
   (D)   Consideration by City Council. At a regularly scheduled public
meeting, following a recommendation by the Planning Commission, the City
Council shall consider and may approve, revise or reject the proposed general
plan amendment. If the City Council approves the proposed amendment as
submitted or as revised, the City Council shall adopt the general plan
amendment by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.119 AMENDMENTS TO ZONING ORDINANCE AND MAP.
   (A)   Application. A proposed amendment to this chapter, including the
zoning district map, may be initiated by any city property owner, any city
resident, any city business owner, the City Council or Planning Commission by
filing a zoning ordinance text or zoning ordinance district map amendment
application with the city.
   (B)   Rezone applications consistent with general plan. A zoning district
map (rezone) amendment application to change a zoning district designation
shall be found to be consistent with the general plan. If the zoning district
map amendment application is found to be inconsistent with the general plan or
the land use maps, a general plan amendment application shall be filed,
reviewed and approved in accordance to the requirements of this chapter, prior
to any zoning district map (rezone) amendment application being filed with the
city.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.120 PROCEDURES FOR AMENDING ZONING ORDINANCE AND MAP (REZONE).
   (A)   Completeness of application. A zoning ordinance text amendment
application and/or zoning district map amendment application shall be
considered by the city for application completeness.
   (B)   Public hearing. Prior to recommending the adoption, rejection or
revision of any zoning ordinance text amendment application or a zoning
district map amendment application to the City Council, the Planning Commission
shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the procedures of this chapter
and Utah Code Annotated. The minimum notice required for the Planning
Commission public hearing shall be as required by §
153.004.
   (C)   Recommendation to City Council. After the Planning Commission has
conducted a public hearing, reviewed the application and formulated a
recommendation, the Planning Commission shall transmit to the City Council a
copy of the Planning Commission recommendation, all public comments and all
other relevant materials of the proceedings before the Planning Commission.
Following receipt of a copy of the previously identified materials, the
Planning Commission recording secretary shall place said application on the
agenda of a regularly scheduled public meeting for the City Council to consider
the Planning Commission recommendation for the proposed amendment.
   (D)   City Council consideration. At a regularly scheduled public meeting,
the City Council shall consider and may approve, revise or deny the proposed
application. If the City Council approves the proposed amendment as submitted
or as revised, the City Council shall adopt the zoning ordinance text and/or
zoning map amendment by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.121 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF ZONING TEXT AND/OR MAP AMENDMENT.
   No amendment to the zoning ordinance text or zoning district map (rezone)
may be recommended by the Planning Commission nor approved by the City Council
unless such amendment is found to be consistent with the general plan. In
considering a zoning ordinance text or zoning district map amendment, the
Planning Commission and the City Council shall consider the following factors,
among others:
   (A)   The effect of the proposed amendment to advance the goals and policies
of the general plan;
   (B)   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the
surrounding area;
   (C)   The compatibility of the proposed uses with nearby and adjoining
properties;
   (D)   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and
   (E)   The overall community benefits.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-6) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.122 NOTICE OF PENDING AMENDMENTS.
   The Planning Commission recording secretary shall provide all applicants
affected by a pending zoning ordinance text or zoning district map amendment
application a written notice that:
   (A)   Identifies that a zoning ordinance text or zoning district map
amendment application is pending with the City Council;
   (B)   The application for an approval, permit or license may be affected by
the pending zoning ordinance text or zoning district map amendment, which may
require revisions and changes to the application upon adoption of the pending
zoning ordinance or zoning district map amendment; and
   (C)   A copy of the pending zoning ordinance or zoning district map
amendment application is available for inspection in the city office.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-7) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
LAND USE APPLICATIONS
§ 153.135 PURPOSE.
   Land use applications and application review procedures are provided to
achieve the purpose of the general plan and all land use ordinances, including
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.136 APPLICABILITY.
   A land use application or building permit application, as applicable, shall
be required for the establishment of all uses, expansion of uses, and
construction or modifications for all properties located within the municipal
boundaries of the city, unless exempt as provided by §
153.003, or the adopted building code. All land use applications are to be
presented to the city on the applicable application forms available from the
city.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.137 APPLICATION FORMS.
   The City Council and/or city shall provide application forms and may
identify submittal requirements and processing procedures for the acceptance
and filing of applications required by this chapter and adopted building code.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.138 COMPLETENESS OF APPLICATION DETERMINED.
   (A)   After the receipt of an application, the city shall determine whether
the application is complete. If the city determines that the application is
incomplete, the city shall notify the applicant in writing, identifying the
deficiencies of the application, and advising the applicant that no action will
be taken by the land use authority, as applicable, until the deficiencies have
been corrected.
   (B)   If the applicant fails to correct the specified deficiencies within 30
days from the date of notification of application deficiency by the city, the
application shall be deemed withdrawn and the applicable application fees will
be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.139 PAYMENT OF TAXES AND CHARGES REQUIRED.
   All approvals, permits or licenses may be conditioned by the land use
authority, as applicable, so that no approval, permit or license is issued, or
becomes effective, until all delinquent taxes and charges have been paid to the
date of approval.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.140 WITHDRAWAL OF APPLICATION.
   An applicant may withdraw a completed land use application at any time,
prior to the required notice of a public hearing to consider the application.
The request for withdrawal of a completed application shall be filed with the
land use authority, City Council or Planning Commission, as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-6) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.141 REAPPLICATION FOLLOWING DENIAL.
   If the application for a land use permit or license is denied for failure to
meet the requirements of this chapter or adopted building code, a land use
application for all or a part of the same property shall not be considered for
a period of at least one year from the date of denial, unless the subsequent
land use application is substantially different from the previously denied
application, the prior denial was based upon a mistake of fact, or on a motion
duly passed by the City Council to act immediately and identifying a valid
public purpose.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-7) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.142 INSPECTIONS.
   In order to review information relevant to an application, permit or
license, a land use authority and/or city staff may enter upon any land at
reasonable times to make examinations and surveys related to the application.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-8) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.143 FEE FOR PROCESSING APPLICATIONS.
   The City Council shall establish, by resolution, a fee schedule for the
processing and review of all land use applications required by this land use
ordinance, and designed to recover the actual or anticipated costs for the
processing of the land use application. The fee schedule for the processing and
review of all land use applications may include a processing fee and an
application fee. Fees shall not be required for land use applications initiated
by a land use authority.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-9) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
DEFINITIONS AND USES
§ 153.155 TABLE OF USES.
   (A)   (1)   The table of uses identifies the uses allowed within each zoning
district and provides a definition for each use.
      (2)   The table of uses identifies uses allowed as a permitted use
(identified as “P” in the table of uses), uses allowed as a conditional use
(identified as “C” in the table of uses), and uses allowed as a temporary use
(identified as “T” in the table of uses). Uses identified as “X” in the table
of uses are determined to be prohibited uses in the zoning district.
      (3)   Uses not identified as permitted, conditional or temporary are
deemed to be prohibited uses in the residential, agricultural and mobile home
park zoning districts.
      (4)   Uses not identified as permitted, conditional or temporary may be
considered as conditional uses in the mixed use and commercial zoning
districts.
   (B)   Additionally, MHP-1 is a special purpose district, not a separate
zone, located within or on top of either R-7.5, C-1 or MU District. RA-1 is an
overlay within the R-15 District.
TABLE OF USES
P = Permitted Use   T = Temporary Use
C = Conditional Use X = Prohibited in Zoning District
Use R-15            R-7.5 MU-1 C-1 RA-1 MHP1 MHP-1
TABLE OF USES
P = Permitted Use                             T = Temporary Use
C = Conditional Use                           X = Prohibited in Zoning District
Use                                      R-15 R-7.5 MU-1 C-1 RA-1 MHP1 MHP-1
Accessory building                       P    P     P    P   P    X    P
Accessory use                            P    P     P    P   P    X    P
Bank or other financial institution      X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Barn, corral, stable, coop or animal run X    X     X    X   P    X    X
Beer license, off premises consumption   X    X     C    P   X    X    X
Beer license, on premises consumption    X    X     X    P   X    X    X
Billboard                                X    X     X    P   X    X    X
Car wash                                 X    X     C    P   X    X    X
Commercial daycare/preschool center      X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Commercial plant nursery                 X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Commercial recreation (indoor)           X    X     C    P   X    X    X
Commercial recreation (outdoor)          X    X     T    P   X    X    X
Convenience store                        X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Daycare center/assisted care center      X    X     C    P   X    X    X
Domestic livestock and fowl              X    X     X    X   P    X    X
Dwelling unit, multiple-family           X    C     C    P   X    X    X
Dwelling unit, single-family             P    P     P    C   P    X    P
Dwelling unit, two-family                C    P     P    C   C    X    X
Education facility                       P    P     P    P   X    X    X
Home daycare                             P    P     P    C   X    X    C
Home occupation                          P    P     P    P   P    X    P
Household pets                           P    P     P    P   P    X    P
Kennel                                   C    C     C    C   C    X    X
Liquor license, private club             X    X     X    P   X    X    X
Liquor license, restaurant               X    X     C    P   X    X    X
Major facility of public utility         X    X     X    X   X    X    X
Man camp                                 X    X     X    X   X    X    X
Medical and dental clinic                X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Minor facility of public utility         C    C     C    C   C    X    X
Mobile home park                         X    C     C    X   X    C    C
Motel                                    X    X     C    P   X    X    X
Museum                                   X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Nursing home, convalescent care center   X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Office                                   X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Personal care center                     X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Personal instruction service             X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Private club                             X    X     X    P   X    X    X
Reception hall/center                    X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Religious place of assembly              P    P     P    P   P    X    P
Residential facility for elderly persons P    P     C    C   X    X    X
Residential facility for persons with    P    P     P    C   X    X    X
disability
Residential facility for persons with
disability (substance abuse facility     C    C     C    X   X    X    X
located within 500 feet of school)
Restaurant                               X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Retail sales and services                X    X     P    P   X    X    X
Rodeo arena                              X    X     X    X   C    X    X
Salvage yard                             X    X     X    X   X    X    X
Seasonal use                             X    X     T    T   X    X    X
Sexually oriented business               X    X     X    P   X    X    X
Tavern                                   X    X     X    P   X    X    X
Temporary use                            T    T     T    T   T    X    T
Travel trailer, recreational vehicle or  X    X     X    C   X    C    C
camper court
Vehicle and equipment repair, major      X    X     C    P   X    X    X
Vehicle and equipment repair, minor      C    C     P    P   X    X    X
Warehouse, self-service storage          X    X     C    P   X    X    X
Wild or exotic creature                  X    X     X    X   X    X    X
Wholesale and warehousing                X    X     C    P   X    X    X
Note:
1.   MHP overlay uses, other than MHP-1s, shall be located only in R-7.5 and
only as permitted by the Planning and Zoning Board as a conditional use
 
(Prior Code, § 10-9-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 020912-01, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.156 USE DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building customarily incidental and clearly
subordinate to the existing primary building and located on the same lot as the
primary building, and meeting all requirements of the adopted building code,
and this chapter.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use clearly incidental and subordinate to the existing
primary use and customarily found in connection with the primary use and
located on the same lot as the primary use.
   BANK OR OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A financial company or corporation
providing the extension of credit, and the custody, loan or exchange of money.
   BARN, CORRAL, STABLE, COOP or ANIMAL RUN. A structure or fenced area, and
its associated buildings and structures, for the feeding, housing or
confinement of domestic animals, as defined in this section. STABLE includes a
building, or a portion thereof, used to shelter and feed horses and ponies.
   BEER LICENSE, OFF PREMISES CONSUMPTION. A beer license shall entitle the
licensee to sell beer on the licensed premises in the original containers for
consumption off the premises only, in accordance with the Utah Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act, being UCA Title 32B, and this chapter.
   BEER LICENSE, ON PREMISES CONSUMPTION. A beer license shall entitle the
licensee to sell, on the premises, beer on draft or in original containers for
consumption on the premises, all to be exercised in accordance with the Utah
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act and this chapter.
   BILLBOARD. A freestanding sign designed or intended to direct attention to a
business, product or service that is not provided, sold, offered or existing on
the property where the sign is located.
   CAR WASH. A structure with machine or hand operated facilities, used
principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing or waxing of motor vehicles. A
facility of this type may be able to accommodate more than one vehicle at the
same time.
   COMMERCIAL DAYCARE/PRESCHOOL CENTER. A facility, operated by a person
qualified and licensed by the State of Utah, which provides children with
daycare and/or preschool instruction as a commercial business and complying
with all applicable state standards and licensing, and having regularly
scheduled, ongoing enrollment for direct or indirect compensation that provides
childcare for less than 24 hours per day.
   COMMERCIAL PLANT NURSERY. A use wholly, or partially, contained within one
or more greenhouses where trees, shrubs, flowers or vegetable plants are grown
and sold to retail customers.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION (INDOOR). Any use, ether public or private, providing
amusement, pleasure or sport, which is operated entirely within an enclosed
building, including, but not limited to, live theater and movie houses, ice
hockey, wrestling, racquetball or handball, bowling and skating, or similar
activities. This use may include associated eating and drinking areas, limited
retail sales and staff offices.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION (OUTDOOR). This use is limited to baseball batting
cages, paintball, tennis facility, miniature golf, and may include, as
accessory uses, associated eating and drinking areas, limited retail sales and
staff offices. This use specifically excludes shooting range, go-cart, motor
vehicle and/or motorbike tracks, or similar activities that may create noise,
dust or other nuisances to adjoining and surrounding uses.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A small scale food store generally located in a
neighborhood setting. Such stores often have on site service of food or drink
for immediate consumption, sale of general prepackaged food items, as well as
medicines, cosmetics and limited beer, and may also sell gasoline and other
petroleum products.
   DAYCARE CENTER/ASSISTED CARE CENTER. A facility which provides less than 24-
hour assisted care or supervision for five or more persons, 14 years of age and
older, who are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to the owner or
operator, with or without compensation for such care, and with or without a
stated educational purpose.
   DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK AND FOWL. Limited to the following: the keeping of one
equine (horse), or one bovine (steer or cow), or seven ovine (sheep) or seven
capri (goat) family, and requiring a minimum area of 22,500 square feet may be
kept, complying with the number of domestic animals identified above. Any
offspring shall be included upon attaining the normal age of weaning; the
keeping of not more than 50 rabbits or 50 chickens or 50 pheasants or 20
turkeys or 20 ducks or 15 geese, and requiring a minimum of 24,500 square feet
may be kept, complying with the number of fowl identified. No more than four
times the allowable numbers listed above shall be permitted at any one time.
   DWELLING UNIT, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building containing three or more dwelling
units.
   DWELLING UNIT, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING UNIT, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing two attached dwelling
units.
   EDUCATION FACILITY. Public schools, colleges or universities qualified by
the State of Utah Board of Regents or State of Utah Board of Education to
provide academic instruction. Privately owned buildings and uses for
educational or research activities that have a curriculum for technical or
vocational training, kindergarten, elementary, secondary or higher education.
   HOME DAYCARE. The care of children who are family and nonfamily members in
an occupied dwelling unit, and complying with all state standards and
licensing, by a resident of the dwelling unit at least twice a week for more
than five children, but fewer than nine children. The total number of children
being cared for shall include children under the age of four years residing in
the dwelling unit, who are under the supervision of the provider during the
period of time the childcare is provided. When a caregiver cares for only three
children under age two, the group size, at any given time, shall not exceed
six. HOME DAYCARE may use the entire residential living area and, additionally,
may use yard space for play purposes. This use is required to comply with all
business licensing requirements of the city.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use or activity conducted entirely within a dwelling
and carried on by the persons residing in the dwelling unit, which use is
clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling
purposes and does not change the character thereof, and in connection
therewith, there is no display nor stock in trade. The HOME OCCUPATION is
limited to the family who resides on the premises; no outside help may be
hired. The HOME OCCUPATION shall not involve the use of any accessory building
or yard space, nor activity outside of the primary building, not normally
associated with residential use. HOME OCCUPATIONS shall include the use of not
more than 25% of the living area of the home.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Domesticated animals and birds ordinarily permitted in a
dwelling unit and kept for company or pleasure of the owner, including, but not
limited to, three dogs, cats and caged birds. HOUSEHOLD PETS do not include
inherently or potentially dangerous animals, reptiles, wild or exotic animals,
or domestic livestock or fowl.
   KENNEL. A commercial establishment having four or more dogs and cats for
boarding, breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire, training for profit, or
selling.
   LIQUOR LICENSE, PRIVATE CLUB. A liquor license shall entitle the licensee to
serve, sell and store liquor, in accordance with the Utah Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act and this chapter. All sales under a private club license shall be
to bona fide members of the licensed club, guest members or their visitors
accompanied by members or guest members, and not to the general public.
   LIQUOR LICENSE, RESTAURANT. A liquor license shall entitle the licensee to
provide liquor to patrons for consumption on the premises, in accordance with
the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act and this chapter.
   MAJOR FACILITY OF A PUBLIC UTILITY. Any electric transmission lines (greater
than 115,000 volts), power plants or substations of electric utilities; gas
gathering facilities, regulator stations, transmission and gathering pipelines
and storage areas of utilities providing natural gas or petroleum derivatives,
and their appurtenant facilities; water treatment plant; sewage treatment
plant.
   MAN CAMPS. A temporary, mobile housing unit, wheeled or on a skid, which is
owned, operated or leased by an industrial entity, housing temporary commercial
workers.
   MEDICAL AND DENTAL CLINIC. A facility operated by a physician, dentist,
chiropractor or other licensed practitioner of the healing arts for the
examination and treatment of persons solely on an outpatient basis.
   MINOR FACILITY OF A PUBLIC UTILITY. A use operated exclusively by a public
body or quasi-public body, such use having the purpose of serving the public
health, safety or general welfare, and including streets, parks, recreational
facilities, administrative and service facilities, and public utilities, and
found by the Planning Commission to conform to the general plan, and this
chapter.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area or tract of land dedicated to use as an area for
parking and utilization of mobile homes, on a full or part time basis.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings containing four or more guestrooms,
some or all of which may have a separate entrance leading directly from the
outside of the building, with a garage or parking space located on the lot and
designated, used or intended wholly or in part for the accommodation of persons
usually traveling by private automobile or motor coach, and which may include
additional services, such as restaurants, meeting rooms, entertainment and
recreational facilities.
   MUSEUM. A room or building for exhibiting, or an institution in charge of, a
collection of books or artistic, historical or scientific objects of lasting
interest or value.
   NURSING HOME, CONVALESCENT CARE CENTER. A facility that provides 24-hour
residential care to persons who are not related by blood, marriage or adoption
to the owner, operator or manager of the facility. A NURSING HOME or
CONVALESCENT CARE CENTER provides some level of skilled nursing or medical
services to the residents.
   OFFICE. A building, room or other space where executive, management,
administrative or professional services are provided, except medical services,
and excluding the sale of merchandise, except as incidental to a principal use.
Typical uses include real estate brokers, insurance agencies, credit reporting
agencies, property management firms, investment firms, employment agencies,
travel agencies, advertising agencies, secretarial services, data processing,
telephone answering, paging and beeper services and facsimile transmission
services; post offices and express mail offices, excluding major mail
processing and distribution, offices for utility bill collection; professional
or consulting services in the fields of law, architecture, design, engineering,
planning, accounting and similar professions; interior decorating consulting
services; and business offices of private companies, utility companies, public
agencies, trade associations, unions and nonprofit organizations.
   PERSONAL CARE CENTER. An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of
frequently or recurrently needed services of a personal nature. Typical uses
include beauty and barber shops, custom tailoring and seamstress shops,
electrolysis studios, portrait studios, shoe repair shops, tailors, tanning and
nail salons, and weight loss centers. The term excludes tattoo establishment.
   PRIVATE CLUB. Any nonprofit corporation operating as a social club,
recreational, fraternal or athletic association, or kindred association
organized primarily for the benefit of its stockholders or members. A PRIVATE
CLUB that serves liquor shall maintain a valid class B liquor license.
   RECEPTION HALL/CENTER. A facility for the holding of events, including, but
not limited to, weddings, wedding receptions, community meetings and group
gatherings.
   RELIGIOUS PLACE OF ASSEMBLY. A room or space in which provision is made for
the congregation or assembly of persons for religious, recreational,
educational, political or social purposes. One accessory dwelling unit for the
housing of the pastor or similar religious leader and their family shall be
permitted.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS. A single-family or multiple-family
dwelling unit that does not operate as a business and is owned by one of the
residents, or an immediate family member of one of the residents, or the title
is placed in trust for a resident, and that meets the requirements of UCA §§
10-9a-103and 10-9a-516, as amended, meeting all applicable building codes,
zoning and health code requirements, and is occupied on a 24-hour per day basis
by eight or fewer elderly persons in a family type arrangement.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITY. A residence in which more
than one person with a disability, as defined in UCA § 10-9a-103, as amended,
resides; and is licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under
UCA Title 62a, Chapter 5, services to people with disabilities; or is licensed
or certified by the Department of Health under UCA Title 26, Chapter 21, the
Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection Act.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY (SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITY
LOCATED WITHIN 500 FEET OF A SCHOOL). A residence in which more than one person
with a disability, as defined in UCA § 10-9a-103, as amended, resides; and is
licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under UCA Title 62a,
Chapter 2, licensure of programs and facilities.
   RESTAURANT. A building or facility for the preparation, retail sale and on
site consumption of food and beverage, sales of food and beverage over a
counter, packaging of food in wrappers, boxes or cartons regardless if the food
is consumed on or off the restaurant premises; and may provide a drive-through
or drive-up facility.
   RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES. Establishments engaged in the retail sale of
goods and services, except those uses as otherwise clearly defined herein.
   SALVAGE YARD. The use of any lot, portion of a lot, or land to which
secondhand materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, processed or handled.
Materials include, but are not limited to, scrap iron and other ferrous
materials, tires, discarded goods, machinery or three or more inoperable motor
vehicles.
   SEASONAL USE. A seasonal use shall not exceed 90 days. Such uses include
fruit and/or vegetable stands, beverage, ice cream or snow cone vendors and
Christmas tree lots.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. A commercial establishment which has significant
or substantial display space, or regularly features of any one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, compact discs, slides or
other visual representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs;
      (3)   Persons who are seminude; and
      (4)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   TAVERN. An establishment licensed by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control
Commission for serving beer by the drink to the general public.
   TEMPORARY USE. A special event or use established for a maximum period of 45
days, such event or use being discontinued after the expiration of 45 days, and
conducted in compliance with all the requirements of this chapter.
   TRAILER CAMP or TRAILER COURT. Any area or tract of land used or designed to
accommodate two or more travel trailers, camper units, recreational vehicles,
motor homes, camping parties or man camps.
   VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT REPAIR, MAJOR. An establishment primarily engaged in
the major repair or painting of motor vehicles or heavy equipment, including
auto body repairs, installation of major accessories and transmission and
engine rebuilding services. Typical uses include major automobile repair
garages, farm equipment repair, paint and body shops.
   VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT REPAIR, MINOR. An establishment providing motor
vehicle repair or maintenance services within completely enclosed buildings,
but not including paint and body shops or other general vehicle repair and
services. Typical uses include businesses engaged in the following activities:
electronic tune ups; brake repairs; air conditioning repairs; generator and
starter repairs; tire repairs; front end alignments; battery recharging;
lubrication; and sales, repair and installation of minor parts and accessories
such as tires, batteries, windshield wipers, hoses, windows and the like.
   WAREHOUSE, SELF-SERVICE STORAGE. An enclosed storage facility of a
commercial nature containing independent, fully enclosed bays, which are leased
to persons exclusively for storage of their household goods or personal
property.
   WHOLESALE AND WAREHOUSING. An establishment that is primarily engaged in the
storage and sale of goods to other firms for resale, as well as activities
involving significant movement and storage of products or equipment. Uses
include minor distribution centers, moving and storage firms, and warehousing
and storage facilities.
   WILD OR EXOTIC CREATURES. Any mammal, reptile or amphibian which is
naturally inclined to do harm and capable of inflicting harm upon human beings.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 020912-01, passed 2-9-2012)
NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES
§ 153.170 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All uses of land and buildings, other than those in conformity with
this chapter, shall be regulated as set forth herein.
   (B)   The lawful use of any building or structure, or the lawful use of any
land existing as of the date of adoption of the initial ordinance or, in the
case of amendment to this chapter, then at the time of such amendment, may be
continued, although such use does not conform with the provisions of this
chapter or amendment thereto. The property owner shall have the burden of
establishing the legal existence of a nonconforming use or a noncomplying
structure.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.171 APPROVAL AUTHORITY.
   The Administrative Hearing Officer, created and appointed as set forth in §
153.023 is authorized and designated by the City Council as the land use
authority with the responsibility to determine the existence of any legal
nonconforming use, a legal noncomplying structure or other legal nonconformity.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.172 EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING USE OR NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Variance required. A nonconforming use of land, building or structure
shall not be enlarged, extended, reconstructed or structurally altered unless a
variance by the Administrative Hearing Officer is granted.
   (B)   Application; hearing. Requests for a determination by the
Administrative Hearing Officer of the existence of a legal nonconforming use,
legal noncomplying structure or other legal nonconformity shall be made on the
applicable land use application form. The Administrative Hearing Officer,
during the hearing, shall find:
      (1)   From the evidence presented by the applicant, who shall have the
burden of establishing the legal existence of a nonconforming use, noncomplying
structure or other nonconformity, that sufficient clear and convincing
evidence, information, documentation and other materials have been presented to
clearly establish that the use, structure, lot or other nonconformity, legally
existed on the date of adoption of the initial ordinance, and complied with all
prior enactments of this chapter;
      (2)   Upon finding by the Administrative Hearing Officer that the use,
structure, lot or other nonconformity legally existed on the date of adoption
of this chapter, and complied with all prior enactments of this chapter, the
city shall allow the filing of an application for any necessary approval,
permit or license, as may be required by city ordinances. A nonconforming use
may be continued by the present or future property owner;
      (3)   Upon finding by the Administrative Hearing Officer that the use,
structure, lot or other nonconformity did not legally exist on the date of
adoption of this chapter, and did not legally comply with all prior enactments
of this chapter, the applicant shall correct the illegality. No other action
shall be taken by the city until the use, structure or other nonconformity
complies with the requirements of this chapter, as adopted; and
      (4)   Following a decision by the Administrative Hearing Officer, the
recording secretary shall provide the applicant with a written notice of the
decision. The written record of all applications shall be maintained on file by
the recording secretary.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.173 CHANGE OF USE.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may only be changed to a use allowed in the zoning
district in which the property is located by following the use permitting
procedures as identified in this chapter.
   (B)   An existing nonconforming lot shall not be enlarged or modified except
to create landscaping, fencing, road widening or similar improvements that will
provide a safer and more compatible facility or will make the lot a conforming
or less nonconforming lot.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.174 TERMINATION OF NONCONFORMING USE DUE TO ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Burden of proof. Any party alleging that a nonconforming use has been
abandoned shall have the burden of establishing the abandonment.
   (B)   Presumption of abandonment. Abandonment may be presumed to have
occurred if:
      (1)   A majority of the primary structure associated with the
nonconforming use has been voluntarily demolished without prior written
agreement with the city regarding an extension of the nonconforming use;
      (2)   The use has been discontinued for a minimum period of one year; and
      (3)   The primary building associated with the nonconforming use remains
vacant for a minimum period of one year.
   (C)   Rebuttal of presumption. The property owners may rebut the presumption
of abandonment under this section and shall have the burden of establishing
that any claimed abandonment under this section has not in fact occurred. The
Administrative Hearing Officer shall have authority to review and decide all
disputes relating to abandonment of structures associated with a nonconforming
use or noncomplying structures.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.175 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Administrative Hearing Officer
regarding any matter related to a nonconforming use, noncomplying structure, or
other nonconformity may appeal the decision to the District Court, within 30
days after the decision is made.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-6) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 153.190 ISSUANCE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is provided to identify the procedures, decision
standards and other matters for the review of conditional use applications.
Conditional use permits may be issued as provided by this chapter for any of
the uses identified as a conditional use in the table of uses, located in §
153.155.
   (B)   A conditional use permit shall be approved if reasonable conditions
are proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated
detrimental effects of the proposed land use in accordance with applicable
standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed
conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the
imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable
standards, the conditional use permit may be denied.
   (C)   The purpose of the issuance of a conditional use permit is to allow
the proper integration of uses that may be suitable only if such uses are
designed, arranged or conducted in a particular manner.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.191 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council, following a Planning Commission recommendation, is hereby
authorized to review and render a final decision in approving, approving with
additional conditions, or denying conditional use applications.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.192 INITIATION.
   All requests to establish a conditional use, as identified as a conditional
use in the table of uses, shall be made on the application form provided by the
city. A property owner may present a conditional use application for review by
the Planning Commission and decision by the City Council. An agent of the
property owner, or a lessee of the property, may present a conditional use
application, provided such application is accompanied by a property owner’s
affidavit of authorization.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.193 FINDINGS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Required. The Planning Commission may recommend approval to grant a
conditional use permit in compliance with this chapter if, from the application
and the facts presented at the public hearing, it finds:
      (1)   The proposed use at the proposed location will not be unduly
detrimental or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity and will
not be detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare;
      (2)   The proposed use will be located and conducted in compliance with
the goals and policies of the general plan and the purposes of this chapter;
and
      (3)   The property on which the use, building or other structure is
proposed is of adequate size and dimensions to permit the conduct of the use in
such a manner that will not be materially detrimental to adjoining and
surrounding properties.
   (B)   Travel trailer camps or courts. Travel trailer camps or travel trailer
courts shall also meet the requirements as set forth in §
151.03 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.194 PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING APPROVAL.
   (A)   Planning Commission public hearing.
      (1)   Prior to recommending either approval or disapproval to a
conditional use application, the Planning Commission shall consider the
conditional use application at a public hearing by providing a minimum of ten
days’ notice of the Planning Commission public hearing.
      (2)   The minimum notice required for the Planning Commission public
hearing shall be provided as required in §
153.004.
   (B)   Recommendation to City Council. Following the close of the public
hearing, or at a subsequent meeting, the Planning Commission shall render a
recommendation to the City Council on the conditional use application. The
Planning Commission may recommend approval of the conditional use application
as presented, approval of the application with added or modified conditions or
restrictions, or denial of the application.
   (C)   City Council public hearing; decision.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council shall consider the recommendation by the
Planning Commission and all other input received on the application during a
public meeting.
         (b)   The City Council may approve, approve with conditions, or deny
the conditional use application.
      (2)   The minimum notice required for the City Council public meeting
shall be provided as required in §
153.004.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.195 REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Public hearing. If there is cause to believe that grounds exist for
revocation or modification of an approved conditional use permit, the City
Council shall hold a public hearing on the question of modification or
revocation of a conditional use permit granted under the terms and the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Conditions. A conditional use permit may be modified or revoked if the
City Council finds that one or more of the following conditions exists:
      (1)   The conditional use permit was obtained in a fraudulent manner;
      (2)   The use for which the conditional use permit was granted has now
ceased for at least six consecutive calendar months; and/or
      (3)   One or more of any conditions or restrictions established with the
approval of the conditional use permit have not been met.
   (C)   Modification of approval.
      (1)   Additionally, the conditions under which a conditional use permit
were originally approved may be modified by the City Council without the
consent of the property owner or operator, if the City Council finds that the
use or related development constitutes or is creating a demonstrated nuisance.
      (2)   Should reclamation be necessary, complete restoration to such an
extent that the area will not depreciate the surrounding property or impair the
beauty of the landscape, shall be accomplished within a 12-month time frame.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-6) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.210 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the remedies,
penalties and procedures for violations of this chapter and to provide for
enforcement.
   (B)   Remedies available. The city or any adversely affected owner of real
estate within the city in which violations of this chapter occur or are about
to occur, may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, institute:
      (1)   Injunctions, mandamus, abatement or any other appropriate actions;
or
      (2)   Proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove the unlawful
building, use or act.
   (C)   Establish violation necessary for injunction. The city need only
establish the violation to obtain the injunction.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.211 VIOLATIONS AND BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Withholding permit. No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any building or structure located on a lot subdivided or sold
in violation of the provisions of this chapter, nor shall the city have any
obligation to issue certificates of occupancy or to extend roads or other
facilities or services to any parcel created in violation of this chapter. The
city may enforce this chapter by withholding building permits.
   (B)   Approval required. It is unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct,
alter or change the use of any building or other structure within the city
without approval of the necessary license or permit, and the issuance of a
valid building permit, as applicable.
   (C)   Compliance required. The city shall not issue a building permit unless
the plans of and for the proposed erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration or use fully conform and comply with all ordinances, requirements
and regulations, as adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 020912-02, passed 2-9-
2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.212 TYPES OF VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter, cause the violation of any provision of this chapter, or fail or
refuse to do some act required under this chapter, including:
   (A)   To engage in any development, use, construction, remodeling or other
activity of any nature upon the land and improvements thereon subject to the
jurisdiction of the city without required approvals, permits and licenses, as
required by this chapter, or other city ordinances;
   (B)   To engage in any development, use, construction, remodeling or other
activity that is contrary to the terms and conditions of any approval, permit
or license, as required by this chapter, or other city ordinances;
   (C)   To violate, by act or omission, any lawful requirement or condition
imposed by the Planning Commission, Administrative Hearing Officer, City
Council or other official of the city, as applicable, upon a required approval,
permit or license;
   (D)   To erect, construct, reconstruct, alter, maintain, move or use any
building or structure, or to use any land in violation of this chapter;
   (E)   To reduce or diminish any lot or area so that setbacks shall be
smaller than prescribed by this chapter or applicable site plan;
   (F)   To increase the density or intensity of use of any land or structure,
except in accordance with the requirements of this chapter; and
   (G)   To remove, deface, obscure or otherwise interfere with any notice
required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.213 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter shall be enforced by the city by any
appropriate actions and proceedings in law or in equity or any other means
authorized by this chapter, including the withholding of building permits and
necessary approvals, permits and licenses to prevent any violation of this
chapter, to prevent unlawful construction, to recover damages, to restrain,
correct or abate a violation, and to prevent illegal occupancy of a building,
structure or premises.
   (B)   Code Enforcement Officers; authority. The City Attorney, Zoning
Administrator and County/City Building Inspector, or any other individual
appointed by the Mayor, are hereby identified as the Code Enforcement Officers
of the city as designated and discussed by this chapter, and shall be
responsible for enforcing all provisions and requirements of this chapter and
for initiating appropriate proceedings to ensure compliance, as allowed and
authorized by state laws and this code. The city shall have such other remedies
as are and as may be from time to time provided by state law or city ordinance
for the violation of any provision of this chapter.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Officers, as identified herein, are authorized
to inspect buildings and structures in the course of construction, modification
or repair, and to inspect land uses to determine compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officers, as identified herein, shall have the
right to enter any building or property for determining compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. Such right of entry shall be exercised only at a
reasonable hour. In no case shall entry be made to any building in the absence
of the owner or tenant thereof without consent of the owner or tenant, or a
written order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement Officers, as identified herein, shall
investigate any purported violation of this chapter.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with lawful
enforcement activities.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 020912-02, passed 2-9-
2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.214 PROCEDURES FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In the case of violations not involving continuing construction or
development, or any emergency, the Zoning Administrator shall give written
notice of the nature of the violation to the owner of the land and to any
person who is a party to any valid approval, permit or license. The persons
receiving such notice shall have ten days to correct the violation or work out
a remediation schedule before further enforcement action.
   (B)   In the case of a violation involving either continuing construction or
development, or an emergency, as reasonably determined by the Code Enforcement
Officers, such Officers may use the enforcement powers and remedies available
to the city under this chapter without prior notice. In such case, the Zoning
Administrator shall send the notice of the violation to the owner of the land
and to any person who is a party to any valid approval, permit or license.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.215 REVOCATION OF APPROVALS, PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   The land use authority or Zoning Administrator may revoke an approved
application, permit or license in accordance with the procedures set forth in
this section and the building code if it is determined that the application,
decision, permit or license was based on materially inaccurate, misleading or
incomplete information provided by the applicant.
   (A)   Revocation procedures. If the land use authority, Building Official or
Zoning Administrator determines, based on inspection, that there exists
reasonable grounds for revocation of a building permit authorized by this
chapter, the building permit may be revoked subject to the appeal process
outlined in this chapter. Any person aggrieved by such decision may appeal by
submitting, within 15 days of the revocation, a written request prior to a
citation being issued, with the Administrative Hearing Officer as provided at §
153.217. This procedure is in addition to and separate from the procedures
required in the building code in regard to the Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Notice and public hearing. At least 14 days’ notice of a proceeding to
reconsider or revoke the development permit, building permit or license shall
be given to the applicant.
   (C)   Required findings. The Administrative Hearing Officer may revoke the
development approval, building permit or license upon making one or more of the
following findings:
      (1)   That the development application or building permit was issued on
the basis of erroneous or materially misleading information or
misrepresentation provided by the applicant; and
      (2)   That the terms or conditions of approval of the permit relating to
establishment or operation of the use, building or structure have been violated
or that other laws or regulations of the city applicable to the development
have been violated.
   (D)   Decision and notice. Within five days of the conclusion of the
hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer shall render a decision and shall
notify the holder of the permit or license of the decision and any other person
who has filed a written request for such notice.
   (E)   Effect.
      (1)   A decision by the land use authority or the Administrative Hearing
Officer to revoke a permit or license shall become final five days after the
date notice of the decision was given, or expiration of the appeal period and
conclusion of the appeal process set out in §§
153.250 through
153.256.
      (2)   After the effective date, all activities pursuant to such permit
shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-6) (Ord. 020912-02, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 153.216 STOP WORK ORDER.
   In accordance with its power to stop work under the adopted building codes
of the city, the County/City Building Inspector may issue a stop work order,
with or without revoking permits, on any building or structure on land where
there exists an uncorrected violation of a provision of the adopted building
codes.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-7) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.217 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an action of the Code Enforcement Officers, as
identified herein, may file an appeal, prior to a citation being issued, with
the Administrative Hearing Officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-9) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
VARIANCES
§ 153.230 SCOPE OF AUTHORITY; APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Administrative Hearing Officer, as provided by UCA Title 10,
Chapter 9a, as amended, is hereby authorized to consider applications for
variances, as defined. If the Administrative Hearing Officer finds that an
“unreasonable hardship”, as defined herein, will result from the strict
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Administrative Hearing
Officer may approve a variance to the requirements of this chapter so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured, provided the
variance shall not have the effect of nullifying in any way the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a variance shall be made on the application
provided by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.231 USE OR SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATION VARIANCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Administrative Hearing Officer may not authorize use or
supplementary development standards variances. Sections
153.095 through
153.101 and
153.155 and
153.156 are germane.
   (B)   Only through an amendment to the ordinance text or zoning map can use
and supplementary development standards changes be considered.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.232 STANDARDS.
   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall not approve a variance application
unless, based upon the evidence presented, it finds that all of the following
apply:
   (A)   Literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would cause an
unreasonable hardship for the applicant, with the applicant providing evidence
that the hardship is located on, or associated with, the subject property for
which the variance is sought, and is peculiar to the property rather than
conditions generally existing on other properties in the same zoning district
or immediate area;
   (B)   The identified hardship is not self-imposed;
   (C)   The identified hardship is not economic in nature;
   (D)   There exist special circumstances attached to the property that do not
apply to other properties in the same zoning district. The Administrative
Hearing Officer may find an unreasonable hardship exists only if the alleged
hardship is located on or associated with the property for which the variance
is sought and comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
conditions that are general to the neighborhood;
   (E)   The variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property
right possessed by other property in the same zoning district. The
Administrative Hearing Officer may find that special circumstances are attached
to the property and exist only if the special circumstances relate to the
hardship complained of and deprive the property of privileges granted to other
properties in the same zoning district; and
   (F)   The granting of the variance will not be contrary to the public
interest.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.233 CONDITIONS.
   In approving any variance application, the Administrative Hearing Officer
may require such conditions that in the judgment of the Administrative Hearing
Officer are necessary to mitigate any negative effects of granting the variance
and to secure the purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.234 DECISION OF VARIANCE.
   (A)   Notice of decision; records maintained. Following a final decision of
a variance application, the Administrative Hearing Officer’s recording
secretary shall provide the applicant with a written notice of the decision.
The record of all variance applications shall be maintained by the recording
secretary and the city.
   (B)   Variance prerequisite to approval. The granting of a variance shall
not authorize the establishment or extension of any use, nor the development,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of any building or
structure, but is a prerequisite to the preparation, filing, review and
determination of any approval, permit or license that may be required by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.235 TIME LIMITATION.
   A variance approval shall expire and shall be invalid unless a building
permit is issued within one year from the date of approval. If a building
permit is not issued within one year from date of variance approval, the
approval shall be void and a new variance application required.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-6) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
APPEALS
§ 153.250 APPEAL AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   Appeal authorized. Any person deemed to have standing by virtue of
being the applicant for any approval, license or permit required by this
chapter, and any board or officer of the city, adversely affected by a decision
of a land use authority’s decision administering or interpreting this chapter,
may appeal that decision to the appeal authority identified by this chapter.
   (B)   Form of application. An application for an appeal of a decision of a
land use authority shall be made on the application provided by the city.
   (C)   Identification of appeal authorities. To provide for appeals of
decisions of land use authorities administering or interpreting this chapter,
and to comply fully with the requirements of UCA Title 10, Chapter 9a, Parts 7
and 8, as amended, the following appeal authorities are identified:
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the City Council in
administering or interpreting this chapter may file a petition with the
District Court, as provided herein;
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Administrative Hearing
Officer in administering or interpreting this chapter may file a petition with
the District Court, as provided herein;
      (3)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Planning Commission in
administrating or interpreting this chapter may file an appeal with the City
Council;
      (4)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the city staff in
administering or interpreting this chapter may file an appeal with the Planning
Commission; and
      (5)   Any person aggrieved by an action of the Code Enforcement Officers,
as identified by §
153.213, may file an appeal before a citation is issued with the Administrative
Hearing Officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.251 MAXIMUM TIME ALLOWED TO FILE APPEAL.
   A person deemed to have standing by virtue of being the applicant, a board
or officer of the city or any person adversely affected by a decision of a land
use authority administering or interpreting this chapter may, within ten days
of the decision, appeal that decision to the appeal authority identified by §
153.250(C).
(Prior Code, § 10-14-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.252 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEAL OF LAND USE AUTHORITY DECISION.
   An appeal of a land use authority decision shall clearly identify the
alleged error in any order, requirement or determination made by the land use
authority in the administration or interpretation of this chapter. Only those
decisions in which a land use authority has applied the requirements of this
chapter to a particular application, person or parcel may be appealed to an
appeal authority.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.253 CONDITION PRECEDENT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Required. As a condition precedent to judicial review, each adversely
affected applicant shall timely and specifically challenge a land use authority
decision, in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Requirements of appeal authority. An appeal authority shall:
      (1)   Act in a quasi-judicial manner;
      (2)   Serve as the final arbiter of issues involving the interpretation
or application of land use ordinances; and
      (3)   May not entertain an appeal of a matter in which the appeal
authority, or any participating member, had first acted as the land use
authority.
   (C)   Theory of relief. An appeal authority shall require an adversely
affected applicant to present every theory of relief that it can raise in
District Court.
   (D)   Duplicate or successive appeals not necessary. An appeal authority
shall not require an adversely affected applicant to pursue duplicate or
successive appeals before it or another appeal authority as a condition of the
adversely affected applicant duty to exhaust administrative remedies, as
required by §
153.256.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.254 ACTION OF APPEAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Requirements. Each appeal authority, as identified herein shall:
      (1)   Notify each of its members of any meeting or hearing;
      (2)   Provide each of its members with the same information and access to
city resources as any other member;
      (3)   Convene only if a quorum of its members is present; and
      (4)   Act only upon the vote of a majority of its convened members.
   (B)   Decision to applicant. Following a written decision by the appeal
authority, the staff of the appeal authority, as provided in this chapter,
shall provide the applicant with a copy of the written decision.
   (C)   Records maintained. A record of the decision of the appeal authority
shall be maintained in the city office, which shall constitute the record of
the appeal.
   (D)   Conduct of appeal. Each appeal authority shall conduct each appeal as
provided herein and shall respect the due process rights of each of the
applicants.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.255 STANDARD OF REVIEW FOR APPEALS.
   (A)   Burden of proof. Any applicant bringing an appeal and alleging an
error of a land use authority decision administering or interpreting this
chapter has the burden of proving that the land use authority erred.
   (B)   Conduct of review. Each appeal authority identified in this chapter
shall hear and review all appeal matters “on the record”, including the review
of all factual matters. Each appeal authority shall only consider the materials
presented originally before the land use authority in making the decision that
is the subject of an appeal.
   (C)   Determination of correctness. The appeal authority shall determine the
correctness of a decision of the land use authority in its interpretation and
application of a land use.
   (D)   Decisions appealable. Only those decisions in which a land use
authority has applied the requirements of this chapter to a particular
application, person or parcel may be appealed to an appeal authority.
   (E)   Application for appeal limited. An application for an appeal shall not
be used to waive, modify or amend any requirement, provision or term of this
chapter.
   (F)   Effective date of decision. A decision of each appeal authority shall
take effect on the date when the appeal authority, as applicable, issues a
written decision, which shall constitute a final decision by the city in the
matter.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-6) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.256 DISTRICT COURT REVIEW.
   (A)   Administrative remedies exhausted. No person may challenge in District
Court a decision of a land use authority until that person has exhausted all
administrative remedies as provided by this chapter and received a final
decision from the appeal authority.
   (B)   Time limit to file appeal. Any applicant adversely affected by a final
decision made in the exercise of or in violation of the provisions of this
chapter may file a petition for review of the decision with the District Court
within 30 days after the local land use decision is final.
   (C)   Constitutional taking issue; arbitration.
      (1)   The required time for filing for district court review shall be
tolled from the date the person files a request for arbitration of a
constitutional taking issue with the property rights ombudsman, as provided by
UCA §§ 10-9a-801(2)(b)(i), as amended, until 30 days after:
         (a)   The arbitrator issues a final award; or
         (b)   The property rights ombudsman issues a written statement under
UCA §§ 13-43-204(3)(b), declining to arbitrate or to appoint an arbitrator.
      (2)   A tolling under this section operates only as to the specific
constitutional taking issue that is the subject of the request for arbitration
filed with the property rights ombudsman by a property owner.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-7) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
Cross-reference:
   Constitutional taking issues, see
Ch. 34
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 153.270 LEGISLATIVE DECLARATION; SUBDIVISION DEFINED.
   (A)   The City Council finds and determines that there are no existing
subdivisions within the city, and none have been proposed since the city’s
incorporation in 1912. As demonstrated in the general plan accompanying maps,
the city has been laid out in various size lots, including 25, 50, 100 feet
wide and the like, by 150 feet long lots. In order to promote the public
health, safety and welfare of the city, any future subdivision proposals shall
be treated as a planned unit development for the purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,
subdivision is defined in UCA §§ 10-9a-103 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 10-15-1) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.271 SUBDIVISIONS AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   A planned unit development is an overlay of the existing zone district that
adds to and modifies the existing zoning map. Planned unit developments (PUDs)
are intended to allow more creativity in the development of land. PUD zoning
and subdivision elements are unified in a PUD development plan. The review
process for a PUD development plan entails the concurrent review of subdivision
preliminary and final plans and, to that extent, the review process addresses
both zoning and subdivision aspects simultaneously.
(Prior Code, § 10-15-2) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.272 INTENT.
   (A)   Specified. Planned unit developments are intended to promote the most
beneficial and creative development of land areas in the city. Planned unit
developments allow more imaginative design for development than would be
generally possible under conventional zoning or subdivision regulations. These
regulations are also intended to promote safe vehicular circulation and
creative residential and commercial development consistent with the general
plan.
   (B)   Review and approval required. A PUD may be permitted in any zoning
district in the city, subject to review of the Planning Commission and City
Council, and approval of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 10-15-3) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.273 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The City Council shall establish all necessary fees and charges payable for
PUD applications, public notices, planning and/or engineering review, and
inspection services of this chapter by resolution. Such fees and charges may be
amended from time to time, as considered necessary, by resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-15-4) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.274 REVIEW PROCESS.
   PUDs shall be reviewed by the city staff, Planning Commission and City
Council pursuant to the provisions of this section. PUD approval or conditional
approval is granted only in conjunction with approval or conditional approval
of subdivision preliminary plans and final plats.
   (A)   Concept plan application requirements.
      (1)   Application. An application is required for a concept plan review
to be scheduled, but no fee is required. The concept plan is a discussion
document only, designed to allow the identification of application procedures,
requirements and standards, and other items that may be considered in the PUD
approval process once a complete application is received by the city.
      (2)   Contents. An application for a concept plan must be completed and
submitted to the city, and:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of ten copies in an 11 inch by 17 inch size of
the concept plan with the application;
         (b)   Provide conceptual layout of proposed lots, including minimum
development requirements in the proposed zoning district, provided by §§
153.040 through
153.042, zoning districts, including lot frontage, lot width and yard
requirements; and
         (c)   Provide conceptual layout of streets as established in the
general plan and transportation circulation map.
      (3)   Incomplete application. The lack of any information required for a
concept plan, as required by this section, shall be cause for the city to find
the concept plan application incomplete.
      (4)   Application not binding. A concept plan application shall not
constitute an application for PUD approval and is no way binding on the city or
the applicant.
   (B)   Preliminary development plan and PUD rezoning. PUD preliminary
development plans are reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council
pursuant to the provisions for the review of PUD preliminary plans and
rezoning, as specified in this section. All preliminary development plan
applications, filed with the city, are required to provide the following
application information:
      (1)   Completed and signed plan. A preliminary development plan
application, provided by the city, shall be completed and signed by the owners
as identified on the property assessment rolls of Duchesne County, or
authorized agent of the owners. The preliminary development plan application
fee, as established by a resolution of the City Council shall be paid by the
applicant;
      (2)   Preliminary plat. A preliminary plat, prepared by a licensed land
surveyor, or engineer, shall be provided. The preliminary plat shall be
prepared in ten copies in an 11 inch by 17 inch size. The preliminary plat
shall show the following:
         (a)   A layout plan of the proposed PUD, at a scale of no more than
one inch equals 100 feet;
         (b)   The proposed name of the PUD and the section, township, range,
principal meridian, city and county of its location shall be located at the top
and center of the preliminary plat;
         (c)   Name and address of owner of record and the name and address of
the licensed surveyor responsible for preparing the preliminary plat, along
with date of preparation, shall be placed in a title block in the lower right
hand corner of the plat;
         (d)   North arrow, graphic and written scale, and basis of bearing
used;
         (e)   All proposed lots, rights-of-way and easements created by the
proposed PUD and their bearings, lengths, widths, name, number or purpose;
         (f)   A vicinity map of the site at a minimum scale of one inch equals
1,000 feet;
         (g)   Surveyed boundary of the proposed PUD, accurate in scale,
dimension and bearing, and giving the location of and ties to the nearest
survey monument. The location of the property with respect to surrounding
property and roads, and the name of all adjoining property owners of record;
         (h)   The legal description of the entire PUD site boundary;
         (i)   The layout of existing and proposed overhead and underground
utilities, such as power, gas, cable, telephone and other public utilities;
         (j)   All existing and proposed roadway locations and dimensions, with
cross sections of all new roads, proposed to be dedicated to the city, and the
proposed radius of all centerline curves;
         (k)   The location and size of existing and proposed culinary water
and sewer lines, and the location of all secondary water locations;
         (l)   Proposed land drainage systems;
         (m)   A title report for the property proposed for the PUD, provided
by a title company within 30 days of the date of the preliminary development
plan; and
         (n)   A tax clearance from the Duchesne County Treasurer indicating
that all taxes, interest and penalties for the property have been paid.
      (3)   Incomplete application. The lack of any information required for a
preliminary development plan application, as required in this section, shall be
cause for the city to find the application incomplete;
      (4)   Public hearing and consideration by Planning Commission. Following
a determination of a complete preliminary development plan application by the
city, the application shall be scheduled for a public hearing and consideration
by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall conduct the public
hearing and consider the application at a regular Planning Commission meeting,
with notice of the meeting being provided consistent with §
153.004; and
      (5)   Scope of recommendation. For all proposed PUDs, the recommendation
of a preliminary development plan shall not constitute final approval, but
permits the applicant to proceed to the next step in the application review and
approval process.
   (C)   Final development plan.
      (1)   Information required. PUD final development plans are reviewed by
the Planning Commission and the City Council in conjunction with the review of
the final plat associated with the PUD. All final development plan
applications, filed with the city, are required to provide the following
application information:
         (a)   A final development plan application, provided by the city,
completed and signed by the owners as identified on the property assessment
rolls of Duchesne County, or authorized agent of the owners, of the lands to be
developed. The final development plan application shall be accompanied by the
final development application fee;
         (b)   A final plat, prepared by a licensed land surveyor, conforming
to current surveying practice and in a form acceptable to the Duchesne County
Recorder for recordation. The final plat shall be prepared in permanent ink,
and all streets shall be numbered using the city address grid. All required
certificates shall appear on a single sheet (along with the index and vicinity
map). The final plat shall be drawn on reproducible Mylar. A minimum of one 24
inch by 36 inch size Mylar, ten 11 inch by 17 inch size paper copies, and a
digital copy in a format acceptable to the County Surveyor shall be presented
to the city, as a requirement of the final plat application. The final
development plan plat shall contain the same information as required by this
section under the preliminary development plan plat, and shall include any
revisions or additions, as required by the Planning Commission and/or City
Council, as part of the preliminary development plan approval;
         (c)   Endorsement on the final plat by every person having a security
interest in the subdivision property subordinating their liens to all
covenants, servitudes and easements imposed on the property;
         (d)   The location of all monuments erected, corners and other points
established in the field. The material of which the monuments, corners or other
points are made shall be noted. Bearings shall be shown to the nearest second;
lengths to the nearest hundredth of a foot; areas to the nearest hundredth
acre;
         (e)   The owner’s certificate of dedication, including the dedication
of any public ways or spaces. This certificate shall be signed, dated and
notarized. The owner’s certificate shall include a reference to any covenants
that may be declared and blanks where the County Recorder may enter the book
and page number of their recording;
         (f)   A legal description of the PUD boundaries;
         (g)   Signature blocks prepared for the dated signatures of the Mayor,
Planning Commission chair and City Attorney;
         (h)   If the final development application is filed with the city
after 90 days from the date the preliminary development application is approved
by the City Council, a title report, no older than 30 days, shall be provided
as part of the final development application; and
         (i)   Final design and construction drawings for all proposed or
required public improvements, including the profiles and cross sections of all
existing and proposed streets, all flood control facilities, the locations of
fire hydrants, required culinary water facilities, sanitary sewer facilities,
and all other provided and required facilities and improvements.
      (2)   Approval authority. The Mayor is identified and authorized as the
approval authority for final development applications, assuring compliance with
all applicable requirements of this chapter. The Mayor may approve the final
development application or deny the final application, accompanied by findings
of fact.
      (3)   Recording. The applicant shall take the final PUD Mylar to the
office of the Duchesne County Recorder for recordation. The applicant is
required to pay all fees for the recording of all final PUD plans.
(Prior Code, § 10-15-5) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.275 EFFECT OF DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Specified. Approval of a final PUD shall have the effect of overlaying
the existing zoning and thereby adding to and modifying the existing zoning
map. If there is a conflict between the provisions of the existing zoning
description and the PUD, the regulation of the underlying zone shall apply
unless specifically addressed in the provisions of the approved PUD.
   (B)   Zoning map. When a PUD is approved by the Mayor, the zoning
designation for that lot, tract or parcel on the official zoning map shall
include the suffix “PUD”. An approved site for a PUD that is zoned R-15 would
have the designation “R-15-PUD”.
(Prior Code, § 10-15-6) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.276 AMENDED PLATS.
   Amended plats do not create additional lots or interest in property but are
subdivision actions to the extent that lot lines may be adjusted or relocated
by the amended plat process or more than one lot combined for building
purposes. Amended plats are also used to correct errors of a subdivision plat.
Amended plats process shall follow the final plat process as described in §
153.274.
(Prior Code, § 10-15-7) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
class C misdemeanor and such fines and imprisonment that may be applicable
pursuant to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day a violation occurs shall be
considered a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-8) (Ord. passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 020912-02, passed 2-9-
2012)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Utah Code Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO UTAH CODE ANNOTATED
UCA Section Code Section
UCA Section                  Code Section
Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 3  35.07
Title 10, Chapter 9a, Part 7 153.250
Title 10, Chapter 9a, Part 8 153.250
10-1-301 et seq.             35.01
10-1-305                     35.04
10-1-307                     35.06
10-3-704(1)                  30.04
10-3-704(2)                  30.04
10-3-704(3)                  30.04
10-3-704(4)                  30.04
10-3-706 through 10-3-710    30.04
                             153.003,
                             153.009,
Title 10, Chapter 9a         153.020,
                             153.023,
                             153.230
10-9a-103 et seq.            153.270
10-9a-103                    153.156
10-9a-303                    153.005
10-9a-305                    153.003
10-9a-516                    153.156
10-9a-801                    153.004
10-9a-801(2)(b)(i)           153.256
10-11-1 et seq.              91.04
Title 11, Chapter 26         112.02
13-43-204(3)(b)              153.256
15-1-4                       11.46
20A-2-105                    30.01
20A-9-203                    30.01
20A-9-404                    33.01
Title 26                     90.01
Title 26, Chapter 21         153.156
                             111.07,
Title 32B                    111.11,
                             153.156
32B-1-101                    111.01
32B-1-102(3)                 111.12
32B-10-205                   111.06
32B-10-206                   111.13
32B-1-505                    153.099
Title 41                     70.01
52-4-202                     30.03
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1 35.02,
                             35.07
59-12-101                    35.07
59-12-106                    35.08
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 2 35.02,
                             35.03
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 3 35.04
Title 59, Chapter 13         35.04
Title 62a, Chapter 2         153.097,
                             153.156
Title 62a, Chapter 5         153.156
62A-15-401                   111.12
63A-2-101 et seq.            153.021,
                             153.023
63G-2-101 et seq.            112.08,
                             153.022
Title 76                     130.01
76-3-301                     10.99
76-9-301.1                   93.09
76-9-301.5                   93.09
76-9-301.6                   93.09
Title 76, Chapter 10         153.099
76-10-803                    91.01
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code Code Section
1-1-1      10.01
1-1-2      10.02
1-1-3      10.03
1-1-4      10.04
1-2-1      10.05
1-2-2      10.06
1-2-3      10.07
1-2-4      10.08
1-3-1      10.09
1-3-2      10.10
1-3-3      10.11
1-4-1      10.99
1-4-2      10.99
1-4A-1-1   11.01
1-4A-1-2   11.02
1-4A-1-3   11.03
1-4A-1-4   11.04
1-4A-1-5   11.05
1-4A-1-6   11.06
1-4A-1-7   11.07
1-4A-1-8   11.08
1-4A-1-9   11.09
1-4A-1-10  11.10
1-4A-1-11  11.11
1-4A-1-12  11.12
1-4A-1-13  11.13
1-4A-2-1   11.25
1-4A-2-2   11.26
1-4A-2-3   11.27
1-4A-2-4   11.28
1-4A-2-5   11.29
1-4A-2-6   11.30
1-4A-3-1   11.45
1-4A-3-2   11.46
1-4A-3-3   11.47
1-4A-3-4   11.48
1-4A-3-5   11.49
1-4A-3-6   11.50
1-4A-3-7   11.51
1-4A-4-1   11.65
1-4A-4-2   11.66
1-4A-4-3   11.67
1-6-1      30.01
1-6-2      30.02
1-6-3      30.03
1-6-4      30.04
1-7-1      31.01
1-7-2      31.02
1-7-3      31.03
1-8-1      33.01
1-9-1      34.01
1-9-2      34.02
1-9-3      34.03
1-9-4      34.04
1-9-5      34.05
1-9-6      34.06
1-9-7      34.07
3-1-1      110.01
3-1-2      110.02
3-1-3      110.03
3-1-4      110.04
3-1-5      110.05
3-1-6      110.06
3-2-1      111.01
3-2-2      111.02
3-2-3      111.03
3-2-4      111.04
3-2-5      111.05
3-2-6      111.06
3-2-7      111.07
3-2-8      111.08
3-2-9      111.09
3-2-10     111.10
3-2-11     111.11
3-2-12     111.12
3-2-13     111.13
3-2-14     111.14
3-2-15     111.15
3-2-16     111.99
3-3A-1     35.01
3-3A-2     35.02
3-3A-3     35.03
3-3A-4     35.04
3-3A-5     35.05
3-3A-6     35.06
3-3A-7     35.07
3-3A-8     35.08
4-1-1      32.01
4-1-2      32.02
4-1-3      32.03
4-1-4      32.04
4-1-5      32.05
4-2-1      90.01
4-2-2      90.02
4-3-1      51.01
4-3-2      51.02
4-3-3      51.03
4-3-4      51.04
4-3-5      51.05
4-3-6      51.06
4-3-7      51.07
4-4-1      91.01
4-4-2      91.02
4-4-3      91.03
4-4-4      91.04
4-4-5      91.99
4-5-1      92.01
4-5-2      92.02
4-5-3      92.03
4-5-4      92.04
4-5-5      92.99
5-1-1      93.01
5-1-2      93.02
5-1-3      93.03
5-1-4      93.04
5-1-5      93.05
5-1-6      93.06
5-1-7      93.07
5-1-8      93.08
5-1-9      93.09
5-1-10     93.10
5-1-11     93.99
5-2-1      130.01
5-2-2      131.01
6-1-1      70.01
6-1-2      70.02
6-1-3      70.03
6-1-4      70.04
6-1-5      70.05
6-2-1      71.01
6-2-2      71.02
6-2-3      71.03
6-2-4      71.04
6-3-1      72.01
6-3-2      72.02
6-3-3      72.03
6-3-4      72.99
7-1-1      94.01
7-1-2      94.02
7-1-3      94.03
7-1-4      94.04
7-1-5      94.05
7-1-6      94.06
7-1-7      94.07
7-2-1      112.01
7-2-2      112.02
7-2-3      112.03
7-2-4      112.04
7-2-5      112.05
7-2-6      112.06
7-2-7      112.07
7-2-8      112.08
7-2-9      112.09
7-2-10     112.10
7-2-11     112.11
7-2-12     112.12
7-3-1      95.01
7-3-2      95.02
7-3-3      95.03
7-3-4      95.04
7-3-5      95.05
7-3-6      95.06
7-3-7      95.07
7-3-8      95.08
7-3-9      95.09
7-3-10     95.10
7-3-11     95.11
7-3-12     95.12
7-3-13     95.13
7-3-14     95.14
7-3-15     95.15
7-3-16     95.16,
           95.99
7-3-17     95.17
7-3-18     95.18
7-3-19     95.19
7-3-20     95.20
7-3-21     95.21
7-3-22     95.99
7-4-1      96.01
7-4-2      96.02
7-4-3      96.03
7-4-4      96.04
7-4-5      96.05
7-4-6      96.06
7-4-7      96.07
8-1-1      52.01
8-1-2      52.02
8-1-3      52.03
8-1-4      52.04
8-1-5      52.05
8-1-6      52.06
8-1-7      52.07
8-1-8      52.08
8-1-9      52.09
8-1-10     52.10,
           52.99
8-1-11     52.11
8-1-12     52.12
8-1-13     52.13
8-2-1      53.01
8-2-2      53.02
8-2-3      53.03
8-2-4      53.04
8-2-5      53.05
8-2-6      53.06
8-2-7      53.07
8-3-1      54.01
8-3-2      54.02
8-3-3      54.03
8-3-4      54.04
8-4-1      55.01
8-4-2      55.02
8-4-3      55.03
8-4-4      55.04
8-4-5      55.05
8-4-6      55.06
8-4-7      55.07
8-5-1      50.01
8-5-2      50.02
8-5-3      50.03
8-5-4      50.04
9-1-1      150.01
9-1-2      150.02
9-1-3      150.03
9-2-1      151.01
9-2-2      151.02
9-2-3      151.03
9-2-4      151.04
9-2-5      151.05,
           151.99
10-1-1     153.001
10-1-2     153.002
10-1-3     153.003
10-1-4     153.004
10-1-5     153.005
10-1-6     153.006
10-1-7     153.007
10-1-8     153.008
10-1-9     153.009
10-2-1     153.020
10-2-2     153.021
10-2-3     153.022
10-2-4     153.023
10-2-5     153.024
10-2-6     153.025
10-2-7     153.026
10-2-8     153.027
10-3-1     153.040
10-3-2     153.041
10-3-3     153.042
10-4A-1    153.055
10-4A-2    153.056
10-4A-3    153.057
10-5-1     153.070
10-5-2     153.071
10-5-3     153.072
10-5-4     153.073
10-5-5     153.074
10-5-6     153.075
10-5-7     153.076
10-5-8     153.077
10-5-9     153.078
10-5-10    153.079
10-5-11    153.080
10-5-12    153.081
10-5-13    153.082
10-6-1     153.095
10-6-2     153.096
10-6-3     153.097
10-6-4     153.098
10-6-5     153.099
10-6-6     153.100
10-6-7     153.101
10-7-0     153.115
10-7-1     153.116
10-7-2     153.117
10-7-3     153.118
10-7-4     153.119
10-7-5     153.120
10-7-6     153.121
10-7-7     153.122
10-8-1     153.135
10-8-2     153.136
10-8-3     153.137
10-8-4     153.138
10-8-5     153.139
10-8-6     153.140
10-8-7     153.141
10-8-8     153.142
10-8-9     153.143
10-9-1     153.155
10-9-2     153.156
10-10-1    153.170
10-10-2    153.171
10-10-3    153.172
10-10-4    153.173
10-10-5    153.174
10-10-6    153.175
10-11-1    153.190
10-11-2    153.191
10-11-3    153.192
10-11-4    153.193
10-11-5    153.194
10-11-6    153.195
10-12-1    153.210
10-12-2    153.211
10-12-3    153.212
10-12-4    153.213
10-12-5    153.214
10-12-6    153.215
10-12-7    153.216
10-12-8    153.999
10-12-9    153.217
10-13-1    153.230
10-13-2    153.231
10-13-3    153.232
10-13-4    153.233
10-13-5    153.234
10-13-6    153.235
10-14-1    153.250
10-14-2    153.251
10-14-3    153.252
10-14-4    153.253
10-14-5    153.254
10-14-6    153.255
10-14-7    153.256
10-15-1    153.270
10-15-2    153.271
10-15-3    153.272
10-15-4    153.273
10-15-5    153.274
10-15-6    153.275
10-15-7    153.276
11-1-1     152.001
11-1-2     152.002
11-1-3     152.003
11-1-4     152.004
11-2-1     152.015
11-3-1     152.030
11-3-2     152.031
11-3-3     152.032
11-3-4     152.033
11-3-5     152.034
11-3-6     152.035
11-4-1     152.050
11-4-2     152.051
11-4-3     152.052
11-4-4     152.053
11-4-5     152.054
11-4-6     152.055
11-4-7     152.056
11-5-1     152.071
11-5-2     152.072
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed             Description
                                     151.01—
-            8-10-2006               151.05,
                                     151.99
                                     153.001—
                                     153.009,
                                     153.020—
                                     153.027,
                                     153.040,
                                     153.041,
                                     153.055—
                                     153.057,
                                     153.070—
                                     153.082,
                                     153.095—
                                     153.101,
                                     153.115—
                                     153.122,
                                     153.135—
                                     153.143,
-            8-10-2006               153.155,
                                     153.156,
                                     153.170—
                                     153.175,
                                     153.190—
                                     153.195,
                                     153.210—
                                     153.214,
                                     153.216,
                                     153.217,
                                     153.230—
                                     153.235,
                                     153.250—
                                     153.256,
                                     153.270—
                                     153.276,
                                     153.999
-            8-15-2006               153.099
80-10-16-1   5-16-2007               30.03
                                     11.50,
                                     30.03,
                                     51.01,
                                     151.01,
                                     151.05,
020912-01    2-9-2012                151.99,
                                     152.015,
                                     153.040—
                                     153.042,
                                     153.155,
                                     153.156
                                     10.99,
                                     153.006,
020912-02    2-9-2012                153.007,
                                     153.211,
                                     153.213,
                                     153.215
                                     151.01,
                                     151.05,
040314-01    4-3-2014, eff. 4-3-2014 151.99,
                                     153.072,
                                     153.077
042315-001   4-23-2015               10.10
                                     72.01—
061115-001   6-11-2015               72.03,
                                     72.99
                                     92.01—
090816-001   9-8-2016                92.04,
                                     92.99
011118-001   1-18-2018               30.03
                                     56.01—
                                     56.06,
11122019-001 eff. 11-19-2019         56.20,
                                     56.35,
                                     56.36
                                    
 
