TOWN OF OAK CITY, UTAH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2021-06, passed 12-16-2021 and
Res. 2022-02, passed 2-17-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Oak City Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate  meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred,
either expressly or by implication.
      BUSINESS. Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license is required by any ordinance of this
municipality.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Oak City, Utah.
      COUNTY. Millard County.
      EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of Oak
City”.
      FEE. A sum of money charged by the town for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      LICENSE. Includes any certificate or license issued by the municipality.
      LOCATION. Whenever any act, conduct or offense is prohibited or required
and no reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of the municipality.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      NUISANCE. Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons,
or any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare
of inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
      OFFENSE. Any act, action or conduct prohibited by this code or the
failure to perform any acts required in this code.
      OFFICER or OFFICIALS. Any elected or appointed person employed by the
town unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lease of a whole or part of such
building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
      RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
      STATE. The State of Utah.
      STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and
intersections.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land shall apply to any
person who occupies all or any part of such building or land either alone or
with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Oak City, Utah.
      TOWN MARSHAL or MARSHAL. All have the same meaning and may be used
interchangeably.
      WEEK. Any seven-day period.
      WHOLESALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (UCA § 26-2-22)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see UCA § 26-2-22
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the previous code section
number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, § _________)”.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Sentencing.
      (1)   Penalty for violation of code. Unless otherwise specifically
authorized by statute, the Town Council may provide a penalty for the violation
of any town ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum Class B misdemeanor
fine under UCA § 76-3-301, or by a term of imprisonment up to six months, or by
both the fine and term of imprisonment. The Town Council may prescribe a
minimum penalty for the violation of any town ordinance and may impose a civil
penalty for the unauthorized use of town property, including, but not limited
to, the use of parks, streets and other public grounds or equipment. Rules of
civil procedure shall be substantially followed.
      (2)   Term of imprisonment for misdemeanors. A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
         (a)   In the case of a Class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
six months; and
         (b)   In the case of a Class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
90 days.
      (3)   Infractions.
         (a)   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned, but
may be subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
         (b)   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no
punishment is specified, the person may be fined as for a Class C misdemeanor.
      (4)   Fines of persons. A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
         (a)   Class B misdemeanor: $1,000 when the conviction is of a Class B
misdemeanor conviction; and
         (b)   Class C misdemeanor; infraction: $750 when the conviction is of
a Class C misdemeanor conviction or infraction conviction.
      (5)   Fines of corporations. The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed
upon a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality
for an offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the town, or for an
offense defined outside of this code over which the town has jurisdiction, for
which no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed
by the court, not exceeding:
         (a)   Class B misdemeanor: $5,000 when the conviction is for a Class B
misdemeanor conviction; and
         (b)   Class C misdemeanor; infraction: $1,000 when the conviction is
for a Class C misdemeanor conviction or for an infraction conviction.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Offenses designated; classified.
      (1)   Sentencing in accordance with code.
         (a)   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of the town shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
         (b)   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
      (2)   Designation of offenses. Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
      (3)   Misdemeanors classified.
         (a)   Misdemeanors are classified into two categories:
            1.   Class B misdemeanors; and
            2.   Class C misdemeanors.
         (b)   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of the town when no other
specification as to punishment or category is made, is an infraction (see UCA §
76-3-104(4)).
      (4)   Infractions.
         (a)   Infractions are not classified.
         (b)   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of the town, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this code or other ordinances of the town for which no
penalty is specified is an infraction.
      (5)   Continuing violation. In all instances where the violation of this
code or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   Administrative hearings.
      (1)   Request. Unless otherwise specifically provided in any ordinance of
the town or any code adopted by reference, a hearing before the Town Council
may be requested by any person:
         (a)   Who is denied or refused a permit or license by any officer,
agent or employee of the town; and
         (b)   Whose permit or license is revoked, restricted, qualified or
limited from that for which it was first issued.
      (2)   Form of request. The request for hearing must be made in writing to
the Mayor or Town Clerk and made within 30 days following the date notice
denying, refusing, revoking, qualifying or restricting the license or permit is
mailed by the town to the applicant or license holder at his or her address as
it appears on the application or license.
      (3)   Procedure.
         (a)   Time and place. Following receipt of a request for hearing, the
Town Council shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and place
the hearing is to be held.
         (b)   Witnesses; evidence. At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall
have the right to hear and examine any witnesses the town may produce to
support its decision and to present his or her own evidence in support of his
or her contention.
         (c)   Decision of Town Council. The Town Council shall, within ten
days following the conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who
requested the hearing of the decision of the Town Council.
      (4)   No additional hearing; scope. This section shall not be construed
so as to afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the Town
Council, nor shall the hearing provided in this division (C) apply to any
criminal complaint or proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see UCA §§ 76-3-104, 76-3-204, 76-3-205, 76-3-301, 76-3-
302, 10-3-703
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
31.   MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
36.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Meeting Minutes; Approval
   
30.01   Definitions
   
30.02   Policy for approval of minutes
Elections; Candidacies
   
30.15   Election procedure; adoption of State Code
   
30.16   Campaign finance disclosure
MEETING MINUTES; APPROVAL
§ 30.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply so
long as they are consistent with the definitions of the same terms found in the
state’s Open and Public Meetings Act, being Chapter 4 of Title 52 of the Utah
Code, UCA §§ 52-4-101 et seq. If a term is defined differently in the state’s
Open and Public Meetings Act, the definition found in that act shall apply.
   CONVENING. The calling of a meeting of a public body by a person authorized
to do so for the express purpose of discussing or acting upon a subject over
which that public body has jurisdiction or advisory power.
   MEETING.
      (1)   The convening of a public body, with a quorum present, including a
workshop or an executive session whether the meeting is held in person or by
means of electronic communications, for the purpose of discussing, receiving
comments from the public about or acting upon a matter over which the public
body has jurisdiction or advisory power.
      (2)   MEETING does not mean:
         (a)   A chance meeting;
         (b)   A social meeting; or
         (c)   The convening of a public body that has both legislative and
executive responsibilities where no public funds are appropriated for
expenditure during the time the public body is convened, and:
            1.   The public body is convened solely for the discussion or
implementation of administrative or operational matters for which no formal
action by the public body is required; or
            2.   The public body is convened solely for the discussion or
implementation of administrative or operational matters that would not come
before the public body for discussion or action.
   MEETING CLERIC. The City Recorder or Town Clerk (or their acting deputies)
for a city or town council, or shall mean the person assigned by a public body,
other than a city or town council, to record and to take the written minutes of
a meeting of a public body of Oak City.
   MINUTES OF A MEETING. A written record of the meeting that shall include:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The names of members present and absent;
      (3)   The substance of all matters proposed, discussed or decided by the
public body which may include a summary of comments made by members of the
public body;
      (4)   A record, by individual member, of each vote taken by the public
body;
      (5)   The name of each person who:
         (a)   Is not a member of the public body; and
         (b)   After being recognized by the presiding member of the public
body, provided testimony or comments to the public body.
      (6)   The substance, in brief, of the testimony or comments provided by
the public under §
30.02(E) of this chapter; and
      (7)   Any other information that is a record of the proceedings of the
meeting that any member requests be entered in the minutes or recording.
   PROPOSED MINUTES. The written minutes prepared by the meeting clerk that
have been given to the members of a public body for their review and approval.
   PUBLIC BODY. Any administrative, advisory, executive or legislative body of
the town that:
      (1)   Is created by the State Constitution, statute, rule, ordinance or
resolution;
      (2)   Consists of two or more persons;
      (3)   Expends, disburses or is supported in whole or in part by tax
revenue; and
      (4)   Is vested with the authority to make decisions regarding the
public’s business.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 12-17-2009)
§ 30.02  POLICY FOR APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
   The following shall be the policy and procedure for the approval of minutes
for the town.
   (A)   Written minutes shall be taken for all public meetings of any public
body of the town. The minutes of all public meetings of any public body of the
town shall be recorded and taken down by the meeting clerk during the course of
any public meeting of the public body.
   (B)   Within 14 working days from the end of the meeting, the meeting clerk
shall prepare proposed minutes for the meeting and give a copy of the proposed
minutes to each member of the public body for his or her review and comments.
   (C)   Once the proposed minutes have been given to the members of the public
body, the meeting clerk shall immediately make available to the public the
proposed written minutes, which shall be a clearly identified as “awaiting
formal approval” or “unapproved” or with some other appropriate notice that the
proposed minutes are subject to change until formally approved and they shall
become a public document available to any member of the public who requests to
read or copy the proposed minutes.
   (D)   (1)   The public body shall consider the proposed minutes for approval
at the first meeting of the public body that immediately follows the meeting
clerk giving the proposed minutes to the members of the public body.
      (2)   The members of the public body shall either approve the proposed
written minutes as presented; or vote to correct and amend the proposed written
minutes and then approve the corrected and amended written minutes at that
meeting.
   (E)   If the public body fail to consider the proposed minutes, or does not
take any action to approve the proposed minutes at the first public meeting
held by the public body immediately following the public body’s receipt of the
proposed minutes from the meeting clerk, the proposed minutes shall be deemed
to have been approved by the public body and will stand as proposed.
   (F)   Once the proposed minutes have either been approved by the public
body, or have been deemed to have been approved by the inaction of the public
body, they shall become the official record of the proceedings of the public
body and shall be signed by the clerk of the meeting and shall be retained in
the official records of town and shall be a public document available for the
inspection and copying by members of the public as appropriate under state law.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 12-17-2009)
ELECTIONS; CANDIDACIES
§ 30.15  ELECTION PROCEDURE; ADOPTION OF STATE CODE.
   All elections of town officers and other elections conducted within the town
shall be in accordance with the state’s Election Code, as set out in UCA Title
20A.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 30.16  CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   General. All candidates for elective municipal office shall comply
with the campaign finance disclosure requirements set forth in this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CANDIDATE. Any person who files a declaration of candidacy for an
elective office of the town; or is nominated by a committee, party or petition;
or received contributions or made expenditures or consents to another person
receiving contributions or making expenditures with a view of bringing about
such person’s nomination or election to such office; or causes on his or her
behalf, any written material or advertisement to be printed, published,
broadcast, distributed or disseminated which indicates an intention to seek
such office.
      CONTRIBUTION. Monetary and non-monetary contributions such as in-kind
contributions and contributions of tangible things, but shall not include
personal services provided without compensation by individuals volunteering
their time on behalf of a candidate.
   (C)   Filing of disclosure reports. Each candidate for elective office shall
file with the Town Clerk dated and signed financial reports which comply with
this section. Forms for such reports shall be made available to candidates by
the town.
   (D)   Time of filing. The financial reports required by this section,
listing the candidate’s itemized and total campaign contributions and
expenditures, shall be filed at least once seven days before the municipal
general election and at least once 30 days following the municipal general
election, A candidate who is eliminated at a primary election shall file a
signed campaign financial statement containing the information required by this
section not later than 30 days after the primary election.
   (E)   Contents of financial reports. The financial reports required by this
section shall include contributions of $50 or less received by the candidate
that may be reported as an anonymous contribution (see UCA § 10-3-208(4)).
   (F)   Penalty for non-compliance. Any candidate who fails to comply with the
provisions of this section is guilty of an infraction.
(Ord. 2001-02, passed 7-27-2001)
CHAPTER 31:  MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Eligibility and residency requirements
   
31.02   Membership; terms
Town Council Standards and Rules of Order
   
31.15   Introduction and purpose
   
31.16   Role of Council and other officers
   
31.17   Code of conduct
   
31.18   Meetings
   
31.19   Council office
   
31.20   Miscellaneous
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.30   Power exercised by ordinance
   
31.31   Penalty for violation
   
31.32   Form of ordinance
   
31.33   Requirements as to form; effective date
   
31.34   Publication and posting of ordinances
   
31.35   Recording; numbering; certification of passage
   
31.36   Resolutions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Declaration of candidacy. A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a town office shall:
      (1)   Have been a resident of the town for at least one year immediately
before the date of the election; and
      (2)   Meet the other requirements of UCA § 20A-9-203.
   (B)   Annexed areas. A person living in an area annexed to the town meets
the residency requirement of this section if that person resided within the
area annexed to the town for at least one year before the date of the election.
   (C)   Registered voter. Any person elected to town office shall be a
registered voter in the town.
   (D)   Continuous absence from town. If an elected town officer is absent
from the town any time during his or her term of office for a continuous period
of more than 60 days without the consent of the Town Council, the town office
is automatically vacant.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 31.02  MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   (A)   Composition. The governing body shall be a Council of five persons,
one of whom shall be the Mayor and the remaining four shall be Council members.
   (B)   Election; terms. The election and terms of office of the officers
shall be as follows.
      (1)   The offices of Mayor and two Council members shall be filled in
municipal elections held in 1977. The terms shall be for four years. These
offices shall be filled every four years in municipal elections.
      (2)   The offices of the other two Council members shall be filled in a
municipal election held in 1979. The terms shall be for four years. These
offices shall be filled every four years in municipal elections.
      (3)   The offices shall be filled in at-large elections which shall be
held at the time and the manner provided for electing municipal officers.
   (C)   Vacancy in office. Mayor or Town Council vacancies shall be filled as
provided in UCA § 20A-1-510.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
TOWN COUNCIL STANDARDS AND RULES OF ORDER
§ 31.15  INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE.
   These standards and rules of order in this subchapter are designed and
adopted for the purpose of providing guidelines for the members of the Town
Council in the performance of their duties and conducting their meetings. The
Town Council shall be governed by the provisions of state law, town ordinances,
and these rules. These rules shall not provide an independent basis or cause of
action for invalidating, or in any way altering, a final decision of the
Council unless otherwise provided by town ordinance or state law. In the event
of a conflict between the provisions herein and town ordinance or state law,
the stricter or more specific provision shall apply. COUNCIL MEMBER or COUNCIL
as used herein shall mean any member of the Town Council, including the Mayor.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 10-21-2021)
§ 31.16  ROLE OF COUNCIL AND OTHER OFFICERS.
   (A)   General roles and responsibilities.
      (1)   Town Council members are elected to serve as the governing
representatives of the community. The Council is comprised of five members,
consisting of a Mayor and four Council members.
      (2)   The Town Council is an administrative and legislative body that is
given authority by the state to create local law, set policy, appropriate funds
and review municipal administration (UCA § 10-3b-401). The Council also
currently acts as the Power System Board and the Water System Board.
      (3)   Most administrative powers, authority and duties are vested in the
Mayor. Council members can, by resolution, be given additional powers and
responsibilities that are not prohibited by specific statute. Council members
may be appointed or assigned by the Mayor to administer specific administrative
positions over one or more departments of the town. Such appointments are done
with the advice and consent of the majority of the Council.
   (B)   Oath of office.  The oath of office for newly elected Council members
is administered by the Town Clerk/Recorder or others authorized by state law,
during a Town Council meeting held at 12:00 p.m. on the first Monday of January
following an election or as soon thereafter as is practical, per UCA  § 10-3-
201.
   (C)   Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor is the chief executive officer to whom all employees of
the municipality shall report. The Mayor is to keep the peace and enforce the
laws of the town and ensures that all laws, ordinances and resolutions are
faithfully executed and observed. The Mayor, or a duly appointed
representative, performs all duties prescribed by law, resolution or ordinance.
The Mayor examines and inspects the books, papers, records or documents of the
town or of any officer, employee or agent of the town. The Mayor reviews all
expenditures of the town and approves expenditures that are above the purchase
level of department managers, Council members, and other employees and staff.
The Mayor reports to the Council the condition of the town and recommends for
consideration any measures deemed to be in the best interest of the town. The
Mayor appoints, with the advice and consent of the Council, persons to fill
municipal offices or vacancies on commissions or committees of the
municipality, in addition to the hiring and firing of employees.
      (2)   The Mayor is a full voting member of the Town Council. The Mayor is
the chair of the Town Council and sets the agenda for each regular meeting of
the Council. The Mayor presides at all meetings of the Council.
      (3)   In conducting meetings of the municipality, the Mayor or in the
Mayor’s absence, the Mayor Pro Tem, shall:
         (a)   Preside at all meetings of the Council and provide general
direction for the meetings;
         (b)   Call the Council to order and proceed with the order of
business;
         (c)   Announce the business before the Council in the order in which
it is to be acted upon;
         (d)   Receive and submit in the proper manner all motions and
propositions presented by the members of the Council;
         (e)   Put to vote all questions that are properly moved or that duly
arise in the course of proceedings and to announce the results of the vote;
         (f)   Inform the Council on any point of order or practice (may call
upon legal counsel for advice);
         (g)   Authenticate by signature all acts, orders, and proceedings of
the Council;
         (h)   Maintain order and dignity at meetings of the Council;
         (i)   Move the agenda along and reduce redundancy;
         (j)   Recognize speakers and Council members prior to receiving
comments and presentation of evidence; and
         (k)   The Mayor has the right to change the order of the agenda at
his/her discretion.
   (D)   Mayor Pro Tem.  The Mayor Pro Tem, during the temporary absence of the
Mayor, shall have and perform all the duties and functions of the Mayor. The
Town Council shall annually appoint one Council member as Mayor Pro Tem. In the
absence of both the Mayor and the appointed Mayor Pro Tem at any meeting, the
Town Council may elect another member as Mayor Pro Tem for the duration of that
meeting; provided there is a quorum available to conduct such meeting.
   (E)   Town Council members.  Council members have the unique task of
balancing the needs and desires of residents and the town as a municipal
entity. As part of the Council’s decision-making process, efforts are made to
gather pertinent information and to involve all stakeholders. Each Council
member has the opportunity to request information and to publicly express his
or her own individual ideas. Members of the Council strive to maintain a strong
working relationship with the Mayor and other Council members and to coordinate
often while addressing joint and pressing matters. The Council also provides
oversight, reviews administrative actions and conducts investigations as
necessary.
   (F)   Meeting attendance. Every member of the Council shall attend the
sessions of the Council unless duly excused or unable to attend because of
extenuating circumstances. Any member desiring to be excused shall notify the
Town Recorder. The Town Recorder shall call the same to the attention of the
Mayor prior to the meeting. By law, the Council may compel a Council member to
attend a meeting of the Town Council.
   (G)   Appointed officers and assignment of department managers.
      (1)   On or before the first Monday in February following a municipal
election, the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Council, should appoint
a qualified person to each of the offices of Town Clerk/Recorder and Treasurer,
as required by state law.
      (2)   The Mayor also may, with the advice and consent of the Council,
appoint and fill vacancies in all offices provided for by law or ordinance,
including appointment of Council members to act as managers for various
municipal departments.
      (3)   Current Council assignments are to serve as managers for: Water
Department, Electric Department, parks and recreation, streets and sidewalks,
cemetery, and the website. The Town Clerk shall maintain a current list of
Council member assignments.
   (H)   Town Clerk/Recorder.  Among other statutory duties, the Town Clerk/
Recorder shall serve as the secretary of the Council. The Town Clerk/Recorder
shall have the following duties:
      (1)   To give notice of all Town Council meetings;
      (2)   To keep and record accurate minutes of the proceedings of the Town
Council;
      (3)   To keep and maintain a permanent record of all vital documents and
papers pertaining to the work of the Council;
      (4)   To sign the meeting minutes after the minutes have been approved by
the Town Council; and
      (5)   To perform such other duties as may be required.
   (I)   Town Commissions, Boards, Committees and other appointed offices.
      (1)   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town Council,
appoints members of various commissions, boards and committees which serve in
advisory capacities to the Town Council. The following are current active
boards: Planning Commission, Board of Adjustments, Oak City Days Committee,
Tree Committee, and Cemetery Sexton. The Town Clerk shall maintain a current
list of the members of all boards, committees, and other appointed offices and
the dates of their appointments.
      (2)   Members of each appointed commission, board or committee shall
conduct themselves in accordance with the code of conduct as outlined herein.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 10-21-2021)
§ 31.17  CODE OF CONDUCT.
   The code of conduct for members of the Town Council and of the town’s
boards, committees and commissions is intended to ensure public confidence in
the integrity of local government and its effective, open, and fair operation.
To this end, the following standards are established.
   (A)   Act in the public interest.  Recognizing that stewardship of the
public interest must be their primary concern, members will work for the common
good of the people of the town and not for any private or personal interest and
they will strive for fair and equal treatment to all persons, claims and
transactions coming before the Town Council, boards, committees and
commissions.
   (B)   Comply with the law. Members shall comply with the laws of the nation,
the state and the town in the performance of their public duties. These laws
include, but are not limited to: the United States and Utah Constitutions; the
municipal code; laws pertaining to conflicts of interest, election campaigns,
financial disclosures, employer responsibilities, and open processes of
government; and town policies and procedures.
   (C)   Conduct of members. The professional and personal conduct of members
shall strive to be above reproach and avoid even the appearance of impropriety.
Members shall refrain from rudeness, disrespectful comments, insults, name-
calling, abusive conduct, personal charges or verbal attacks upon the character
or motives of other members of the Council, boards, committees and commissions,
the staff or public.
   (D)   Respect for process. Members shall perform their duties in accordance
with the processes and rules of order as established by the Town Council,
board, committees and commissions governing the deliberation of public policy
issues, meaningful involvement of the public, and implementation of policy
decisions of the Town Council by staff and employees.
   (E)   Conduct of public meetings. Members shall prepare themselves for
public issues, listen courteously and attentively to all public discussions
before the body, and focus on the business at hand. They shall refrain from
interrupting other speakers, making personal comments not germane to the
business of the body, or otherwise interfering with the orderly conduct of
meetings. Everyone should feel safe in expressing their opinions, views, and
concerns. Public outbursts, such as clapping, shouting, and booing during
meetings are discouraged.
   (F)   Conflict of interest. In order to ensure their independence and
impartiality on behalf of the common good, members shall not use their official
positions to influence governmental decisions in which they have a material
financial interest, or where they have an organizational responsibility or
personal relationship, which may give the appearance of a conflict of interest.
Members shall disclose conflicts with investments, interest in real property,
sources of income, and gifts without being required to disclose the value of
said conflicts; and they shall abstain from participating in deliberations and
decision-making where conflicts may exist.
   (G)   Policy role of members. Members shall respect and adhere to the Town
Council structure as adopted by ordinance. In this structure, the Town Council
determines the policies of the town with the advice, information and analysis
provided by the public, boards, committees, commissions, legal counsel and town
staff.
   (H)   Independence of boards, committees and commissions. Because of the
value of the independent advice of boards, committees, and commissions to the
public decision-making process, members of Council shall refrain from using
their position to unduly influence the deliberations or outcomes of board,
committee, commission, and staff deliberation proceedings.
   (I)   Positive work place environment. Members shall support the maintenance
of a positive and constructive work place environment for town employees and
for citizens and businesses dealing with the town. Members shall recognize
their special role in dealing with town employees and in no way create the
perception of inappropriate direction to staff.
   (J)   Compliance and enforcement.
      (1)   The code of conduct is intended to be self-enforcing. It therefore
becomes most effective when members are thoroughly familiar with it and embrace
its provisions.
      (2)   The code of conduct expresses standards for ethical conduct
expected of members of the Town Council, boards, committees, and commissions.
Members themselves have the primary responsibility to ensure that ethical
standards are understood and met, and that the public can continue to have full
confidence in the integrity of government. The Council, the chairs and members
of boards, committees, and commissions and the Mayor, have the responsibility
to intervene when actions of members appearing to be in violation of the code
of conduct are witnessed or brought to their attention. The Town Council by
majority vote may also impose sanctions on members whose conduct does not
comply with the town’s ethical standards. Sanctions may include:
         (a)   Official verbal reprimand in an open meeting;
         (b)   Formal public letter of censure by the Mayor, chair, or majority
of the Council or body;
         (c)   Loss of committee assignment(s);
         (d)   In accordance with UCA §§ 10-3-607 or 52-4-301, or any member of
the Council acting in violation of this code of conduct, town code, or town
policy and procedures may be removed from meetings; or
         (e)   Other courses of action as they are made available by state
statute and legal means and agreed upon by a majority of the Town Council.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 10-21-2021)
§ 31.18  MEETINGS.
   All meetings shall be conducted and noticed in conformance with the Utah
Open and Public Meetings Act.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLOSED MEETING. A meeting that is properly closed in accordance with the
Utah Open and Public Meetings Act that is part of a regular meeting, special
meeting, or emergency meeting.
      EMERGENCY MEETING. A meeting of an urgent or emergency nature that meets
the requirements of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
      REGULAR MEETING. A meeting listed on the Town Council’s annual meeting
schedule that meets the requirements of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
      SPECIAL MEETING. A meeting to consider matters of a non-emergency or non-
urgent nature that is not listed on the Town Council’s annual meeting schedule
and that meets the requirements of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
      QUORUM. Any three members of the Council, including the Mayor.
   (B)   Types of meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings.
         (a)   The Council shall hold regular meetings at least once each
month. The Council shall adopt a regular meeting schedule on an annual basis.
Regular meetings may include work sessions and/or policy sessions.
         (b)   The Town Council holds regular meetings in the Council room at
the town hall, located at 30 West Center, on the third Thursday of each month
at 7:30 p.m.
         (c)   The Council may elect to meet at alternate locations, dates and
times. Any regular meeting may be canceled or rescheduled by a majority vote of
the Council. Public notice shall be given by the Clerk/Recorder of such change
in accordance with state law.
      (2)   Special meetings.
         (a)   The Mayor or two Council members may order the convening of a
special meeting of the Council. Each order shall be entered in the minutes of
the Council and provide at least three hours' notice to each Council member of
the meeting. The Town Recorder shall serve notice of the special meeting on
each Council member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice
personally, by telephone conversation or voicemail, or by leaving it at the
Council member’s residence.
         (b)   The special meeting shall otherwise comply with the noticing
requirements of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act. Any action taken by the
Council may not be reconsidered or rescinded at any special meeting unless the
number of members of the Council present at the special meeting is equal to or
greater than the number of members present at the meeting when the action was
approved.
      (3)   Emergency meetings. An emergency meeting to consider matters of an
emergency or urgent nature may be held if unforeseen circumstances make it
necessary to do so. In such an event, in accordance with the Utah Open and
Public Meetings Act, the Council must give the best notice practicable of the
time and place of the emergency meeting and the topics to be considered at the
emergency meeting. An emergency meeting may not be held unless an attempt has
been made to notify all of the Council members and a majority of the Council
members, including the Mayor, approves the meeting.
      (4)   Closed meetings. Closed meetings may be held for the purposes and
by following the procedures listed in UCA §§ 52-4-101 through 52-4-305. In
accordance with this section, the closed meeting may be held upon a vote by
two-thirds of the Council members present, including the Mayor, so long as a
quorum is present. After conclusion of the closed meeting, no vote is required
to resume to a public (open) session. In such a case, the Mayor or Mayor Pro
Tem shall announce the end of the closed meeting and the resumption of the
public session.
      (5)   Public hearings.
         (a)   Public hearings are generally part of a regular meeting and
shall consist of those items the Council is legally required to hold a hearing
for or for items the Council wishes to receive public input on.
         (b)   The Mayor shall automatically schedule matters that state law or
town ordinance requires a public hearing. Upon the request of three or more
Council members, or two Council members and the Mayor, the Mayor may schedule a
public hearing on any other topic.
         (c)   Public hearings will be held after providing proper notice as
required by state law or town ordinance.
         (d)   When a public hearing is held, a member of the Town Council
having knowledge about the issue will first present information on the issue
and answer questions. The Mayor will then call upon the applicant to make a
short presentation about the item on the Council agenda.
         (e)   Following comments from the applicant, the Mayor will declare
the public hearing as opened or convened. No motion is needed to open or
convene the public hearing.
         (f)   At that point, all parties interested in addressing the issue
are invited to speak before any discussion is held by the Council or before any
motion is made. The Mayor may provide a time limit for those addressing the
Council during a public hearing and may limit redundant, irrelevant, or
inappropriate comments from the public. The applicant should not speak during
the public hearing. Each individual who speaks during the public hearing shall
state his or her name before proceeding.
         (g)   Upon conclusion of the public comment, the Mayor will announce
the closure of the public hearing. No motion is needed to close the public
hearing.
         (h)   The Council may vote to continue a public hearing to a future
specified date, time, and location if there is insufficient time to take all
public comment.
         (i)   After the public hearing is closed, the Council may proceed with
discussion on the matter at hand. As part of the discussion, the Council shall
offer the applicant an opportunity to address comments made by the public and
to answer questions asked by the Council. When discussion by the Council is
finished, a motion may then occur for appropriate action.
   (C)   Notice of meeting schedule.
      (1)   Posting in general circulation. The Town Clerk/Recorder shall
publish in at least one newspaper in general circulation within the city, a
statement of dates, times and places of the regular Town Council meetings for
the calendar year. Posting shall occur no later than the day preceding the day
of the first regular meeting of the calendar year.
      (2)   Alternate postings. The Town Clerk/Recorder shall post in at least
three locations, set forth by state code, the dates, times and place of each
regular Town Council meeting for the calendar year at least one week prior to
the first regular meeting of the calendar year. The Recorder shall check at
reasonable intervals to ensure that these postings remain accurate and
accessible to the public. The Town Council shall approve the selection of these
locations, which may be physical locations, such as a public bulletin board or
on an electronic medium, such as a town-sponsored web page or social media
platform.
   (D)   Agenda. A written agenda for each meeting shall be prepared by the
Town Clerk/Recorder, under the direction of the Mayor. In the event any member
of the Council desires to add an item or items to any prepared agenda, consent
must be obtained from another Council member or the Mayor. The Mayor may also
add an item to the agenda. Any member of the general public may place an item
on the agenda upon the approval of the Mayor or two Council members. The Mayor
and Council members shall not unreasonably deny a request.
      (1)   Deadlines for filing or removal of agenda items. All items
submitted for presentation or removal from the agenda must be requested no
later than 5:00 p.m. of the Monday prior to the scheduled meeting. As an
alternative, members of the general public may raise an item with the Town
Council during a regular meeting’s public comment section of the agenda.
      (2)   Removal of agenda items. The Mayor has the authority to remove
agenda items unless a Council member has placed it on the agenda. The Mayor
must then have approval of that Council member to remove the agenda item. Any
member of the general public may request to the Mayor to remove any item they
submitted from the agenda at any time.
      (3)   Agenda preparation. Upon receiving all requests, the Clerk/Recorder
shall add or delete the requested items to the prepared agenda.
      (4)   Posting of agenda.
         (a)   The regular Town Council meeting agenda shall be posted by the
Clerk/Recorder no later than 24 hours prior to the meeting. Changes to the
agenda may also be posted up until 24 hours prior to the meeting, as provided
by law. The Clerk/Recorder shall distribute electronic copies of the agenda to
a newspaper in general circulation within the community or other media outlet
that has requested it. The Recorder shall post a copy of the agenda in three
public places within the town. The Town Council shall approve the selection of
these locations, which may be physical locations, such as a public bulletin
board or on an electronic medium, such as a town-sponsored web page or social
media platform.
         (b)   The Clerk/Recorder shall distribute printed or electronic copies
of the agenda to members of the Town Council and to any person that is to
appear on the agenda no later than 8:00 p.m. of the Tuesday prior to the
meeting.
      (5)   Mayor’s right to alter agenda. The Mayor has the right to change
the order of the agenda at his or her discretion.
   (E)   Quorum. Three members of the Council (including the Mayor, or
including the Mayor Pro Tem if the Mayor is not present) shall constitute a
quorum thereof for the transaction of all business except where otherwise
required.
   (F)   Content/order of business. Town Council meetings will generally be
conducted in the following order, unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   Invocation;
      (2)   Adoption of agenda;
      (3)   Approval of minutes of previous meetings/hearings;
      (4)   Consideration of specific items, or business (ordinances,
resolutions and the like);
      (5)   Public comments;
      (6)   Financial report;
      (7)   Departmental reports;
      (8)   Miscellaneous items; and
      (9)   Adjournment,
   (G)   Invocation.
      (1)   Each Town Council meeting will begin with an invocation, not to
exceed three minutes, comprised of a prayer, other supplication, moment of
silence, inspirational thought or reading, and the like.
      (2)    The purpose of the invocation is to set the tone of the
proceedings of the Town Council. The invocation will be led by either a member
of the Town Council or by a volunteer person who is a current resident of Oak
City. The volunteer presenter may request to present the invocation within one
week prior to a scheduled meeting. The request shall contain the following
information to be included on the agenda: name and address of the person and
the general nature of the presentation, i.e., prayer, supplication,
inspirational thought, and the like. The presenter must be in attendance at the
meeting and prepared to proceed on time. Volunteer presenters may only offer an
invocation once in a six-month period of time.
      (3)   The invocation should promote thoughtful attention to public duty
and high moral and ethical standards. It should promote peace, unity and
tolerance in the community. It should not demean or degrade any person or
group, disparage others, or be crude, vulgar or offensive to the public sense
of decency.
   (H)   General meeting conduct.
      (1)   Discussions in the meetings are to be limited to agenda items and
issues reasonably related thereto.
      (2)   Comments or presentation by the public that are redundant,
irrelevant, or inappropriate may be limited by the Mayor.
      (3)   In order to ensure that the meetings proceed timely and orderly,
the Mayor may impose a time limit on those desiring to address the Council.
      (4)   At the discretion of the Mayor, groups desiring to address the
Council may be asked to select a spokesperson. A group shall be defined as an
assembly of three or more people in attendance with similar viewpoints on a
given issue. The names of each member of the group shall be provided to the
Town Recorder, as well as the name of the spokesperson of the group. This
information must be provided prior to the spokesperson being allowed to address
the Council.
      (5)   Any person who exceeds a time limit, shows disrespect to any person
attending or participating in the meeting, is disruptive, violates any law, or
discusses irrelevant, redundant, or inappropriate issues may be removed at the
direction of the Mayor.
   (I)   Decorum.
      (1)   Council members shall not engage in personal attacks and shall
respect the viewpoints of staff, the public, and other Council members.
      (2)   Council members shall restrict comments to issues before the body.
      (3)   Council members shall avoid engaging in private discourse or other
actions that may distract the attention of the Council or the audience from the
business at hand or that might interfere with a person’s right to be heard
after recognition by the Mayor.
      (4)   Council members shall demonstrate courtesy and not disrupt
meetings.
      (5)   Violations of decorum or conduct of Council members shall be
addressed by the Mayor, who may declare a Council member out of order. The
Mayor or a Council member may also be declared out of order on vote of two or
more members of the Town Council.
   (J)   Motions.
      (1)   Making motions. Any Council member, except for the Mayor, may make
or second a motion. Motions should state findings for denial or approval within
the motion. Council members may adopt by reference any findings contained in
staff reports if the Council members have reviewed and agree with those
findings and so state on the record. All motions shall be repeated if directed
by the Mayor.
      (2)   Second required. Each motion of the Council must be seconded by a
member of the Council. The Mayor is not allowed to second a motion. A motion
that is not seconded is considered failed.
      (3)   Withdrawing a motion. After a motion is made and seconded, it shall
be deemed in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn at any time
before decision or amendment by the consent of the author and Council member
who seconded the motion.
      (4)   Motion to table. A motion to table an agenda item for further study
should be accompanied by specific reasons for continuing the matter and,
whenever feasible, a specific date to rehear the matter. The item should be
placed on the next available Council agenda if feasible.
      (5)   Amending motions. When a motion is pending before the Council, any
Council member may suggest an amendment without a second at any time prior to
the Mayor calling for a vote on the motion. The amendment must be accepted by
the author and the member that seconded the motion in order to amend the stated
motion.
      (6)   Substitute motions. A substitute motion, which shall replace the
original motion, may be made prior to a vote on the original motion. The
substitute motion must be accepted by the author and the member that seconded
the motion in order to substitute the stated motion. If not accepted, the
member making the substitute motion shall wait until after a vote on the
original motion to make a new motion.
      (7)   Reconsidering a motion. To recall a previous motion for further
evaluation or action, a motion for reconsideration may be made by a Council
member who voted with the majority. The motion to reconsider must pass with a
minimum of three votes. If it is determined that the motion should stand as
previously approved, no formal vote is necessary. If the former motion is to be
amended or made void, the motion shall be put to a formal vote of the Council.
Motions to reconsider a previous motion should normally take place during the
same meeting the motion was made.
      (8)   Recesses. No motion is necessary to break for a short recess. In
such a case, the Mayor shall announce that the Council is taking a break and
announce the time the Council will reconvene. In addition, one or more Council
members may take a short recess so long as a quorum remains in attendance.
      (9)   Adjourn. No motion is necessary to adjourn a meeting after
conclusion of all business on the agenda. In such a case, the Mayor shall
announce the adjournment of the meeting. Otherwise, if the business on the
agenda has not been completed, a motion, stating the reason for adjournment,
and a second are required to adjourn.
   (K)   Voting.
      (1)   Number of votes required. Unless otherwise provided by state law,
town ordinances, or herein, the minimum number of votes required to make a
determination on any item presented to the Council or to transact any business
before the Council shall be three votes so long as a quorum is present.
      (2)   Changing a vote. No member shall be permitted to change his or her
vote after the decision is announced by the Mayor, unless a motion for
reconsideration or a substitute motion is made and approved as provided herein.
      (3)   Abstention. Every Council member has the right to abstain from
voting.
      (4)   Conflict of interest; disqualification. If required to be
disqualified from voting by the Municipal Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act
because of a conflict of interest or other reason, a disqualified Council
member shall not participate in the discussion or vote of that particular item.
      (5)   Roll call required. A roll call vote shall be required for the
following types of actions:
         (a)   Ordinances;
         (b)   Resolutions;
         (c)   Actions that would create a liability for the city;
         (d)   Action on an item when a Council member specifically requests a
roll call; and
         (e)   Action on an item for which a Council member is participating
electronically.
   (L)   Meeting minutes. The Clerk/Recorder is responsible for creating,
posting, storing and releasing all minutes of Council meetings. Draft minutes
from Council meetings are reviewed by the Mayor and Council members and
considered for approval during the next regular Council meeting. Approved
minutes are posted to the state public notice website and to a town-sponsored
social media page. Hard copies may be obtained from the Clerk/Recorder.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 10-21-2021 ; Res. 2022-01, passed 2-17-2022 )
§ 31.19  COUNCIL OFFICE.
   (A)   Council salaries and compensation. Council members receive a minimal
annual salary, paid in December, to account for their time, service and conduct
of their official elected duties. Council member salaries are reviewed and
adjusted periodically as part of the town compensation ordinance.
   (B)   Reimbursements. In addition to the annual salary, Council members may
be compensated for expenses directly related to the conduct of their official
duties and would include participation in seminars, meetings, or training.
These are handled on a case-by-case basis and generally require prior approval
by the Mayor or the Council. This includes such expenses as per diem, mileage,
lodging, meals, registration fees, subscriptions, memberships, and the like.
These expenses may be paid in advance, if needed, or disbursed following
approval of a submitted expense statement.
   (C)   Stipends.
      (1)   Generally. Stipend payments are separate from and in addition to
salary or other reimbursable expenses as outlined above. Each stipend is
provided for a specific purpose to further support Council members in
fulfilling their roles and responsibilities.
      (2)   Technology stipend. This is intended to assist Council members to
acquire needed computer hardware and/or software to be able to equally perform
the duties of their office. The Town Council shall periodically define a
minimal platform of hardware, such as laptop or notebook PCs, tablets, or other
devices, as well as the need for supporting software, such as word processing
or office suites. This stipend is available to each Council member at the
beginning of each term of office, but is only authorized where a need for
assistance exists and each case shall be reviewed and authorized by the Mayor.
The level of compensation shall be up to, but not to exceed, the current amount
allowed as stipulated in the compensation ordinance.
   (D)   Labor by Council members.
      (1)   It is not necessary for Council members to perform the routine
physical labors of each department over which they are assigned. Doing so
creates a liability to the town if the Council member is not qualified to
perform such labor. It also discourages community members from serving on the
Town Council if the perception exists that such labors are part of the duties
of office.
      (2)   Nevertheless, it has been common practice for certain Council
members to perform some of these physical duties, where they have been
qualified to do so. This practice permitted, but only when the Council member
is duly qualified to perform the labor.
      (3)   The Mayor and Council member over each department is responsible to
determine what the qualifications are for specific jobs and whether labor to be
performed by a Council member or by others meets that criteria. Wherever
possible, the labor should be performed by a qualified town employee or
contractor.
      (4)   Compensation for labor performed by Council members shall be
according to the schedule for general labor, as defined in the compensation
ordinance.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 10-21-2021)
§ 31.20  MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Additional guidelines. In addition to these policies and procedures,
the Council may invoke additional guidelines as necessary to address issues as
they arise so long as they are consistent with the nature and intent herein.
   (B)   Review and amendments. These standards and rules of order shall be
reviewed periodically to ensure that provisions herein are current with state
law. These rules may be updated or amended by resolution at any regular meeting
of the Town Council.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 10-21-2021)
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.30  POWER EXERCISED BY ORDINANCE.
   The Town Council may pass any ordinance to regulate, require, prohibit,
govern, control or supervise any activity, business, conduct or condition
authorized by statute or any other provision of law. An officer of the town
shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where he relied on or enforced an
ordinance he or she reasonably believed to be a valid ordinance. It shall be a
defense to any action for punitive damages that the official acted in good
faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he or she enforced an ordinance on
advice of legal counsel.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 31.31  PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute, the Town Council may
provide a penalty for the violation of any town ordinance by a fine not to
exceed the maximum Class B misdemeanor fine under UCA § 76-3-301 or by a term
of imprisonment up to six months, or by both the fine and term of imprisonment.
The Town Council may prescribe a minimum penalty for the violation of any town
ordinance and may impose a civil penalty for the unauthorized use of town
property, including, but not limited to, the use of parks, streets and other
public grounds or equipment. Rules of civil procedure shall be substantially
followed.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 31.32  FORM OF ORDINANCE.
   Any ordinance passed by the Town Council shall contain and be in
substantially the following order and form:
   (A)   A number;
   (B)   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
   (C)   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
   (D)   An ordaining clause which states “Be it ordained by the Town of Oak
City:”;
   (E)   The body or subject of the ordinance;
   (F)   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
town ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
   (G)   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the date
when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
   (H)   A line for the signature of the Mayor or Mayor pro tempore to sign the
ordinance; and
   (I)   A place for the Town Clerk to attest the ordinance and affix the seal
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 31.33  REQUIREMENTS AS TO FORM; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Ordinances passed or enacted by the Town Council shall be signed by
the Mayor, or if he or she is absent, by the Mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum
of the Town Council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance
shall be void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions
of UCA § 10-3-704(1) through (4).
   (B)   Ordinances shall become effective 20 days after publication or posting
or 30 days after final passage by the Town Council, whichever is closer to the
date of final passage, but ordinances may become effective at an earlier or
later date after publication or posting if so provided in the ordinance.
   (C)   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become effective
20 days after publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage by the
Town Council, whichever is sooner.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 31.34  PUBLICATION AND POSTING OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances, except those enacted pursuant to UCA §§ 10-3-706 through 10-
3-710, before taking effect shall be deposited in the office of the Town Clerk
and a short summary of the ordinance published at least once in a newspaper
published within the town, or if there is no newspaper published therein, then
by posting complete copies in three public places within the town. Any
ordinance, code or book, other than the state code, relating to building or
safety standards, town functions, administration, control or regulations, may
be adopted and shall take effect without further publication or posting, if
reference is made to the code or book and at least three copies have been filed
for use and examination by the public in the office of the Town Clerk prior to
the adoption of the ordinance by the Town Council. Any state law relating to
building or safety standards, town functions, administration, control or
regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further publication
or posting if reference is made to the state code. The ordinance adopting the
code or book shall be published in the manner provided in UCA §§ 10-3-709 and
10-3-710.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 31.35  RECORDING; NUMBERING; CERTIFICATION OF PASSAGE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall record, in a book used exclusively for that
purpose, all ordinances passed by the Town Council. The Town Clerk shall give
each ordinance a number, if the Town Council has not already so done.
Immediately following each ordinance, or codification of ordinances, the Town
Clerk shall make or cause to be made a certificate stating the date of passage
and of the date of publication or posting, as required. The record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
contents, passage and publication or posting of the ordinance or codification.
   (B)   The Town Clerk, insofar as possible, shall assign all ordinances of a
general nature a number, which shall conform to the numbering system used in
this code and shall indicate upon the face of the ordinance the date adopted.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall keep all ordinances of a local, private or
temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedication, bond issues and tax
levies, in a separate book of “special ordinances” properly indexed and
organized according to date adopted. The first number of such an ordinance
shall be the four digits of the year the ordinance is adopted, followed by a
dash which is followed by a number indicating the order in which such special
ordinance was adopted during the year.
   (D)   Failure to comply with this section shall not affect or render invalid
any ordinance of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 31.36  RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Unless otherwise required by law, the Town Council may exercise all
administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Establishing water and sewer rates;
         (b)   Charges for garbage collection and fees charged for town
services;
         (c)   Establishing personnel policies and guidelines; and
         (d)   Regulating the use and operation of the town property.
      (2)   Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
   (B)   Form. Any resolution passed by the Town Council shall be in a form and
contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
   (C)   Publication; effective date. Resolutions may become effective without
publication or posting and may take effect on passage or at a later date as the
Town Council may determine, but resolutions may not become effective more than
three months from the date of passage.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
CHAPTER 32:  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Creating offices; filling vacancies
   
32.02   Town Clerk and Town Treasurer
   
32.03   Bonds of officers
   
32.04   Oath of office
   
32.05   Compensation
   
32.06   Retirement system
   
32.07   Planning and Zoning administrative official
Conflicts of Interest
   
32.20   Purpose
   
32.21   Statutory references
   
32.22   Definitions
   
32.23   Use of office for personal benefit
   
32.24   Compensation for assistance; disclosure statement
   
32.25   Interest in business
   
32.26   Other conflicts of interest
   
32.27   Nepotism
   
32.28   Conflicting private employment
   
32.29   Investments
   
32.30   Appearance of employees
   
32.31   Exceptions
   
32.32   No-action determinations
   
32.33   Inducing officer to violate
   
32.34   Complaints; procedure
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Management, see
Ch. 34
   Fire Department, see
Ch. 33
   Mayor and Town Council, see §§
31.01 through
31.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  CREATING OFFICES; FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   Offices created by Council. The Town Council may create any office
deemed necessary for the government of the town and provide for filling
vacancies in elective and appointive offices.
   (B)   Mayor to appoint and fill vacancies. The Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Town Council, may appoint and fill vacancies in all offices
provided for by law or ordinance.
   (C)   Continuation in office. All appointed officers shall continue in
office until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 32.02  TOWN CLERK AND TOWN TREASURER.
   On or before the first Monday in February following a town election, the
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town Council, shall appoint a
qualified person to each of the offices of Town Clerk and Town Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 32.03  BONDS OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Approval of bonds. The bonds of the Council members shall be approved
by the Mayor and the bond of the Mayor shall be approved by the Town Council at
the first meeting of the Town Council in January following a town election.
   (B)   Premium paid by town. The premium charged by a corporate surety for
any bond required by the town shall be paid by the town.
   (C)   Additional bonds; filing. The Town Council may at any time require
further and additional bonds of any or all officers elected or appointed. All
bonds given by the officers, except as otherwise provided by law, shall be
filed with the Town Clerk; except that, the bond of the Town Clerk shall be
filed with the Town Treasurer.
   (D)   Bond amounts. Before taking the oath of office and entering upon the
duties of their respective office, the following named town officials shall
each give a bond with good and sufficient securities, payable to the town,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their office and the
payment of all moneys received by such officers according to law and the
ordinances of the town, in the following amounts:
      (1)   Mayor: $288,000;
      (2)   Council member: $10,000;
      (3)   Town Treasurer: $288,000; and
      (4)   Town Clerk: $10,000.
   (E)   Treasurer’s bond. The Town Treasurer and Mayor’s bond shall be
superseded by any rule, regulation or directive of the state’s Money Management
Council when such rule, regulation or directive is binding on the town.
   (F)   Blanket bond. The bond required in this section may be a blanket bond.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 32.04  OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Constitutional oath of office. All officers, whether elected or
appointed, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices shall
take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office. The form of oath
shall be as provided in the Utah Constitution Art. IV, § 10.
   (B)   Filing.
      (1)   The oath of office required under this section shall be
administered by any judge, notary public or by the Town Clerk.
      (2)   (a)   Elected officials shall take their oath of office at 12:00
p.m. on the first Monday in January following their election or as soon
thereafter as is practical.
         (b)   Appointed officers shall take their oath at any time before
entering on their duties.
         (c)   All oaths of office shall be filed with the Town Clerk.
   (C)   Acts of officials not voided. No official act of any town officer
shall be invalid for the reason that he or she failed to take the oath of
office.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 32.05  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The salaries, benefits and conditions of employment for the officers
and employees of the town shall be as established by ordinance of the Town
Council.
   (B)   The compensation schedule is on file in the town office.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)  (Ord. 2020-03, passed 12-17-2020; Ord. 2021-06, passed
12-16-2021)
§ 32.06  RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   The Mayor is authorized to undertake all of the necessary actions to enroll
the town in the benefit programs of the Public Employees’ Retirement Systems
offered by Utah Retirement Systems, including the retirement coverage and death
benefit coverage for qualified employees under the laws and regulations of the
Utah Retirement Systems.
(Res. 2021-03, passed 4-15-2021)
§ 32.07  PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   The Mayor of the town is appointed as the administrative official of
planning and zoning.
(Res. 2021-05, passed 8-19-2021)
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 32.20  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards of conduct for
elected officials, appointed officers, employees and volunteers serving on town
boards, commissions, committees, agencies, councils and foundations and to
require these persons to disclose actual or potential conflicts of interest
between their public duties and their personal interests.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-1)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.21  STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   Statutory provisions governing conflicts of interest are outlined in UCA §§
10-3-1301 through 10-3-1312.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-2)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.22  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPOINTED OFFICER.
      (1)   Any person appointed to any statutory office or position or any
other person appointed to any position of employment with the town. APPOINTED
OFFICERS include, but are not limited to, persons serving on special, regular,
part-time or full-time committees, commissions, agencies, boards, councils,
foundations created by the Town Council, whether or not such persons are
compensated for their services.
      (2)   The use of the word “officer” in this subchapter is not intended to
make appointed persons or employees “officers” of the town according to any
meaning that term may have elsewhere.
   ASSIST. To act, or offer or agree to act, in such a way as to help,
represent, aid, advise, furnish information to, or otherwise provide assistance
to a person or business entity, believing that such action is of help, aid,
advice or assistance to such person or business entity and with the intent to
so assist such person or business entity.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. A sole proprietorship, partnership, association, joint
venture, corporation, firm, trust, foundation or other organization or entity
used in carrying on a business.
   COMPENSATION. Anything of economic value, however designated, which is paid,
loaned, granted, given, donated or transferred to any person or business entity
by anyone other than the town for or in consideration of personal services,
materials, property or any other thing whatsoever.
   ELECTED OFFICER. Any person elected or appointed to the office of Mayor or
Council member.
   IMPROPER DISCLOSURE. Disclosure of private, confidential or protected
information to any person who does not have both the right and the need to
receive the information.
   MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEE. A person who is not an elected or appointed officer who
is employed on a full-time, part-time or voluntary basis by the town.
   PRIVATE, CONFIDENTIAL OR PROTECTED INFORMATION. Information classified as
private or protected under UCA Title 63G, Ch. 2, Government Records Access and
Management Act, or other applicable provision of law.
   SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST. The ownership, either legally or equitably, by an
individual, his or her spouse, or his or her minor children, or an entity he or
she controls, of at least 10% of the outstanding shares of a corporation or 10%
interest in any other business entity.
   VOLUNTEER.
      (1)   A person serving on town boards, commissions, committees, agencies,
councils and foundations.
      (2)   VOLUNTEERS shall be considered “appointed officers” under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-3)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.23  USE OF OFFICE FOR PERSONAL BENEFIT.
   No elected or appointed officer shall:
   (A)   Disclose unauthorized information. Improperly disclose private,
confidential or protected information acquired by reason of his or her official
position or use such information to secure special privileges or exemptions for
himself or herself or others;
   (B)   Misuse of position. Use or attempt to use his or her official position
to secure special privileges for himself or herself or others; or
   (C)   Gifts or loans; exceptions. Knowingly receive, accept, take, seek or
solicit, directly or indirectly, any gift or loan for himself or herself or
another if the gift or loan tends to influence him or her in the discharge of
his or her official duties, but this division (C) does not apply to:
      (1)   An occasional non-pecuniary gift having a value of less than $50;
      (2)   An award publicly presented;
      (3)   Any bona fide loan made in the ordinary course of business; or
      (4)   Political campaign contributions if the contribution is actually
used in a political campaign.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-4)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.24  COMPENSATION FOR ASSISTANCE; DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   (A)   Compensation.
      (1)   No elected or appointed officer or municipal employee may receive
or agree to receive compensation for assisting any person or business entity in
any transaction involving the town in which he or she is an officer unless he
or she files with the Mayor a sworn statement giving the information required
by this section and discloses the same in open meeting to the members of the
body of which he or she is a member immediately prior to the discussion the
information required by division (C) below.
      (2)   No municipal employee may receive or agree to receive compensation
for assisting any person or business entity in any transaction involving the
town unless he or she discloses the information required by division (C) below
to his or her immediate supervisor and any other municipal officer or employee
who may rely upon the employee’s representations in evaluating or approving the
transaction.
   (B)   Disclosure statement.
      (1)   The statement required to be filed by this section shall be filed
ten days prior to the date of any agreement between the elected or appointed
officer or municipal employee and the person or business entity being assisted,
or ten days prior to the receipt of compensation by the business entity,
whichever is earlier.
      (2)   The statement is public information and shall be available for
examination by the public.
   (C)   Disclosure information. The statement and disclosure shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the officer or employee;
      (2)   The name and address of the person or business entity being or to
be assisted or in which the appointed or elected official has a substantial
interest; and
      (3)   A brief description of the transaction as to which service is
rendered or is to be rendered and of the nature of the service performed or to
be performed.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-5)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.25  INTEREST IN BUSINESS.
   (A)   Interest in business subject to town regulation.
      (1)   Required. Every appointed or elected officer or municipal employee
who is an officer, director, agent or employee or the owner of a substantial
interest in any business entity which is subject to the regulation of the town,
shall disclose the position held and the nature and value of his or her
interest upon first becoming appointed, elected or employed by the town and
again at any time thereafter if the elected or appointed officer or employee’s
position in the business entity has changed significantly or if the value of
his or her interest in the entity has increased significantly since the last
disclosure.
      (2)   Disclosure statement. The disclosure shall be made in a sworn
statement filed with the Mayor. The Mayor shall report the substance of all
such disclosure statements to the members of the Town Council or may provide to
the members of the Town Council, copies of the disclosure statement within 30
days after the statement is received by him or her.
      (3)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to instances where the
value of the interest does not exceed $2,000. Life insurance policies and
annuities shall not be considered in determining the value of any such
interest.
      (4)   Form. The disclosure statement required by this section may be in
substantially the following form:
 
Disclosure Statement
State of Utah
County of Millard
 
The undersigned, being first duly sworn, deposes and states:
 
1.   Office. I am   (name and office)   of Oak City, and my address is                           , Oak City,
Utah.
 
2.   Involvement with business entities. Below are listed all business entities which are: 1) subject to
regulation by Oak City; and 2) of which the undersigned is an officer, director, agent, employee or owner of an
interest therein valued in excess of $2,000.00.
 
a.   Name of business entity:
Position held:
Projected annual income1:
Projected value of interes2:
 
b.   Name of business entity:
Position held:
Projected annual income1:
Projected value of interes2:
 
c.   Name of business entity:
Position held:
Projected annual income1:
Projected value of interes2:
 
d.   Name of business entity:
Position held:
Projected annual income1:
Projected value of interes2:
 
1 Represents salary, wages, commissions or fees reasonably anticipated in coming year, if an officer, director,
employee or agent of business entity, or return thus anticipated if investor in business entity.
2 Represents estimated present fair market value of interest in business entity, in the case of an investment
including pension plan, but not including insurance or annuities.
 
3.   Nature of involvement. The following more fully describes the nature of my interest in the above-listed
business entities, which are referred to by the same letters as in the previous item.
 
a.   
b.   
c.   
d.   
 
My commission expires:                                                                                        
         
The above statements are made as of the                            day of                                      
 
Subscribed and sworn to before me on this                          day of                                      
 
Notary public:                                                                                                
             
Residing in:                                                                                                  
               
 
 
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-6)
   (B)   Interest in business doing business with town.
      (1)   Disclosure required. Every appointed or elected officer or employee
who is an officer, director, agent, employee or owner of a substantial interest
in any business entity which does or anticipates doing business with the town,
shall publicly disclose, to the members of the body of which he or she is a
member, or by which he or she is employed, immediately prior to any discussion
by such body, concerning matters relating to such business entity, the nature
of his or her interest in that business entity.
      (2)   Statement entered in minutes. The disclosure statement shall be
entered in the minutes of the meeting.
      (3)   Manner of disclosure. Disclosure by a municipal employee under this
section is satisfied if the employee makes the disclosure in a manner required
by division (A) above and §
32.24 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-7)
(Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.26  OTHER CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Any personal interest or investment by a municipal employee or by any
elected or appointed official of the town which creates a conflict between the
employee’s or official’s personal interests and his or her public duties shall
be disclosed in open meeting to the members of the Town Council in the manner
required by §§
32.24 and
32.25(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-8)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.27  NEPOTISM.
   (A)   No “elected” or “appointed” officer, as defined in §
32.22 of this chapter, shall employ, appoint or vote for the appointment of his
or her father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, sister, brother, uncle,
aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-
law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law, in or to any position or
employment, when the salary, wages, pay or compensation of such appointee is to
be paid out of any public funds.
   (B)   It is unlawful for such appointee to accept or to retain such
employment when his initial appointment thereto was made in contravention of
the forgoing sentence by a person within the degrees of consanguinity or
affinity therein specified having the direct power of employment or appointment
to such position, or by a board or group of which such person is a member.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-9)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.28  CONFLICTING PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT.
   No employee shall engage in, solicit, negotiate for, promise or accept
outside employment, nor render any services to anyone other than the town in
return for a valuable consideration, when such employment or services create a
conflict of interest with or is inconsistent or incompatible with or tends to
impair the proper discharge of that employee’s official duties or the exercise
of his or her discretion in an official capacity. No employee shall serve or be
involved with projects, businesses or enterprises which are subject to
regulation by or which have transactions with the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-10)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.29  INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Policy. Investments by employees shall be in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   Prohibited investments.
      (1)   No employee shall invest or hold any legal or equitable interest in
any business or enterprise which investment or interest creates a conflict of
interest with or is inconsistent or incompatible with or tends to impair the
proper discharge of that employee’s official duties or the exercise of his or
her discretion in an official capacity.
      (2)   No employee shall invest in or be involved with projects,
businesses or enterprises which are subject to regulation by or which have
transactions with the town.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following investments are exempt from the requirements
of this section:
      (1)   Bank, savings and loan or credit accounts;
      (2)   Insurance policies;
      (3)   Securities listed on a national stock exchange; and
      (4)   Investments in any business or enterprise which does not do
business in the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-11)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.30  APPEARANCE OF EMPLOYEES.
   Each employee shall conduct his or her official affairs in such a manner
that will give the clear  impression that he or she cannot be improperly
influenced in the performance of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-12)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.31  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply, among others, to the
following employment situations:
   (A)   Where the employee or appointee was appointed or employed by the town
prior to the time during which said related person assumed said public position
therein;
   (B)   Where the employee or appointee was or is eligible or qualified to be
employed by a department or agency of the town as the result of his or her
compliance with civil service laws or regulations and merit system laws or
regulations, or as the result of a certification as to his or her qualification
and fitness by a department, agency or subdivision of the state or town
authorized so to do by law; and
   (C)   Where the employee or appointee was or is employed by the employing
unit because he or she was or is the only person available, qualified or
eligible for the position.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-13)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.32  NO-ACTION DETERMINATIONS.
   Employees may follow the procedures below to determine if their activities
will be in violation of this subchapter.
   (A)   Request of determination. Prior to undertaking any activity which may
violate the provisions of this subchapter, an employee may notify the Mayor of
the contemplated activity and request a determination pursuant to this section.
Upon receipt of adequate relevant information, and after any investigation
deemed necessary or advisable, the Mayor may then determine whether or not the
town will take action against the employee if the contemplated activity is
undertaken, and advise the employee accordingly. In making this determination,
the Mayor shall consider whether the contemplated activity violates any terms
of this section, with attention to the following particulars:
      (1)   Any use for private gain or advantage of town time, facilities,
equipment and supplies, badge, uniform, prestige, office or equipment;
      (2)   Receipt by the employee of any money or other consideration for the
performance of any act required of him or her as a town employee;
      (3)   Performance of an act other than in his capacity as an employee,
which act may later be subject, directly or indirectly, to control, inspection,
review, audit or enforcement by the agency or department in which he or she is
employed; and
      (4)   The extent, if any, to which the employee will be acting under
color of town authority or subject the town to any potential liability.
   (B)   Effect. If the Mayor determines that no action will be taken against
the employee if he or she undertakes the contemplated activity, then no such
action will be taken, unless the contemplated activity proves to be materially
different than represented to the Mayor in making the ruling, or unless
material facts were not disclosed to the mayor before the ruling was made.
   (C)   Records maintained. Complete, written records of the facts and
decision of each no-action request shall be maintained and shall be open to the
public for review upon reasonable request.
   (D)   No precedential effect. The determination of one no-action request
shall not necessarily affect the determination of future no-action requests.
   (E)   Town Council review.
      (1)   Referral by Mayor. The Mayor may refer any no-action request to the
Town Council for decision, after gathering and presenting to the Council the
relevant facts.
      (2)   Appeal by employee. An employee may appeal the denial of his no-
action request to the Town Council within ten days after notification of the
Mayor’s decision. The employee shall then have a promptly scheduled opportunity
to present his or her request to the Town Council, and the Mayor may also speak
on defense of the denial.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-14)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.33  INDUCING OFFICER TO VIOLATE.
   It is a Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, for any person to induce or seek to induce
any appointed or elected officer or municipal employee to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-15)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.34  COMPLAINTS; PROCEDURE.
   If a person is charged with a violation of this subchapter, the complaint
shall be filed with the Mayor or Town Clerk. The Mayor or Town Clerk shall
investigate the complaint and shall give the person an opportunity to be heard.
A written report of the findings and the recommendation of the Mayor or the
Town Clerk shall be filed with the Town Council. If the Town Council finds that
the person has knowingly and intentionally violated this subchapter, it may
dismiss, remove from office, suspend or take such other appropriate actions
with respect to the person in accordance with state laws, town ordinances and
town personnel policies and procedures. The Town Council may also rescind or
void any contract or subcontract entered into pursuant to that transaction
without returning any part of the consideration received by the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-16)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Separate offense. Each day any such person, father, mother,
husband, wife, son, daughter, sister, brother, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece,
first cousin, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-
in-law or daughter-in-law, is retained in office by any of said officials shall
be regarded as a separate offense.
      (2)   Penalty. In addition to any penalty contained in any other
provision of law, including, but not limited to, UCA § 10-3-1310, any person
who knowingly and intentionally violates §§
32.20 through
32.34 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-17)  (Ord. 1993-01, passed 4-15-1993)
CHAPTER 33:  FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Creation
   
33.02   Officers
   
33.03   Chief; powers and duties
   
33.04   Membership
   
33.05   Equipment
   
33.06   Regulations and requirements
   
33.07   Enforcement
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01  CREATION.
   A department to be known as the “Oak City Volunteer Fire Department”, the
object of which shall be the prevention of fire and the protection of life and
property within the limits of the Fire District of Millard County is hereby
created.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)  (Ord. passed 5-19-1988)
§ 33.02  OFFICERS.
   (A)   Specified. The Department shall consist of a Chief, one Assistant
Chief and other officers as the Chief and Assistant may deem necessary for the
effective operation of the Department.
   (B)   Appointments.
      (1)   The Chief shall be appointed by the Town Council, based upon
recommendation of the Fire Department, for an indefinite period of time, and
his or her tenure of office shall depend upon his or her good conduct and
efficiency. The Chief shall be technically qualified by training and experience
and shall have ability to command the Department officers and members, and hold
their respect and confidence. He or she shall be removed only for just cause
and after a public hearing before the Town Council.
      (2)   The Assistant Chief and all other Department and company officers
shall be appointed by the Chief. Such officers shall be accountable only to the
Chief, and subject to removal by him or her.
   (C)   Accountability of officers. The Chief shall be held accountable to the
Town Council only, and shall make written and verbal reports thereto as the
Town Council may require. All other Department and company officers shall be
accountable to the Chief only.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)  (Ord. passed 5-19-1988)
§ 33.03  CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief shall formulate a set of rules and regulations to govern the
Department, and shall be responsible to the Town Council for the personnel,
morale and general efficiency of the Department.
   (B)   The Chief shall determine the number and kind of companies of which
the Department is to be composed and shall determine the response of such
companies to alarms.
   (C)   The Chief shall at least once a month conduct suitable drills or
instruction in the operation and handling of equipment, first aid and rescue
work, salvage, a study of buildings in the area of response, fire prevention,
water supplies and all other matters generally considered essential to good
firemanship and safety of life and property from fire.
   (D)   The Chief is hereby required to assist the proper authorities in
suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or causing to be investigated
the cause, origin and circumstances of all fires.
   (E)   The Chief is hereby empowered to enter any and all buildings and
premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to
serve written notice upon the owner or occupant to abate, within a specified
time, any and all fire hazards that may be found.
   (F)   Any person so served with a notice to abate any fire hazard or
hazards, shall comply therewith and promptly notify the Chief.
   (G)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel and other information
about the work of the Department.
   (H)   The Chief shall report periodically to the Town Council the condition
of the apparatus and equipment; the number of fires during the month, their
location and cause, and date of same and loss occasioned thereby; the number
and purpose of all other runs made; and the number of members responding to
each fire or other run, and any changes in membership.
   (I)   The Chief shall make a complete annual report to the Town Council
within one month after the close of the fiscal year, such report to include the
information specified in division (G) above, together with comparative data for
previous years and recommendations for improving the effectiveness of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)  (Ord. passed 5-19-1988)
§ 33.04  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Appointment; conditions.
      (1)   The membership of the Department shall consist of such persons as
may be appointed by the Chief and shall be able-bodied citizens residing within
the area of response, preferably property owners whose business activities are
normally within the confines of said area, and who have telephones in their
homes.
      (2)   Determination of whether candidates for appointment are able bodied
shall be made by the Chief after a medical and physical examination has been
made in a manner prescribed by the Chief and approved by the rank and file.
   (B)   Suspension; discharge.
      (1)   Any member of the Department may be suspended or discharged from
the Department by the Chief at any time he or she may deem such action
necessary for the good of the Department.
      (2)   On written request of such member to the officers of the
Department, he or she shall be given a public hearing on the charges brought by
the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)  (Ord. passed 5-19-1988)
§ 33.05  EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Policy. The Department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other
equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and
properly protect life and property from fire.
   (B)   Recommendations of needed equipment. Recommendations of apparatus and
equipment needed shall be made by the Chief, and after approval by the Millard
County Fire District shall be purchased in such manner as may be designated by
the Millard County Fire District.
   (C)   Storage of equipment. All equipment of the Department shall be safely
and conveniently housed in such places as may be designated by the Chief.
   (D)   Notification to members. Suitable arrangement or equipment shall be
provided for citizens to turn in an alarm, and for notifying all members of the
Department so that they may promptly respond.
   (E)   Unauthorized use.
      (1)   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Department.
      (2)   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized
member of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)  (Ord. passed 5-19-1988)  Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06  REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Mutual aid system.
      (1)   The town is hereby authorized to enter into agreements or contracts
with nearby incorporated communities or governing bodies of other organizations
to provide the members of such communities or organizations with fire
protection or to establish a mutual aid system.
      (2)   No apparatus shall be hired out or permitted to leave the area of
response, except in response to a call for aid at a fire in a neighboring
community without the consent of the Fire Chief. The officer in charge of the
Department shall have power to assign equipment for response to calls for
outside aid in accordance with division (A)(1) above, and in other cases only
when the absence of such equipment will not jeopardize protection in this
assigned response area.
   (B)   Driving over fire hose. No person shall drive any vehicle over fire
hose, except upon specific orders from the Chief or other officer in charge
where the hose is used.
   (C)   Obstructions. No person shall park any vehicle or otherwise cause any
obstruction to be placed within 50 feet in front of the entrance to any fire
station or other place where fire apparatus is stored, or within ten feet of
any fire hydrant or cistern.
   (D)   Following, parking too closely. No unauthorized person with any
vehicle shall follow within 600 feet of any apparatus belonging to the
Department, nor park any vehicle within 300 feet of a fire.
   (E)   False alarms. No person shall maliciously turn in or cause to be
turned in a false alarm.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6)  (Ord. passed 5-19-1988)  Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.07  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authority. All regularly appointed members of the Department are
hereby given the necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Available officers. It is hereby made the special duty of the other
peace officers who may be on duty and available for fire duty, to respond to
all fire alarms and assist the Department in the protection of life and
property, in regulating traffic, maintaining order and in enforcing observance
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)  (Ord. passed 5-19-1988)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)  (Ord. passed 5-19-1988)
CHAPTER 34:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Six County Region Pre-Disaster Hazard Mitigation Plan adopted
   
34.02   NIMS adopted
   
34.03   Emergency Evacuation Plan
§ 34.01  SIX COUNTY REGION PRE-DISASTER HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   In accordance with UCA § 10-3-717, the Town Council adopts the 2020 Six
County Region Pre-Disaster Hazard Mitigation Plan.
(Res. 2021-01, passed 2-18-2021)
§ 34.02  NIMS ADOPTED.
   The National Incident Management System (NIMS), dated 3-1-2004, is hereby
approved and adopted as the standard for incident management within the town.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 3-15-2007)
§ 34.03  EMERGENCY EVACUATION PLAN.
   (A)   Declaration.
      (1)   The declaration of an “emergency” or “emergency evacuation” shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor, or either of the two senior Town Council
members in the event of his or her absence, injury or incapacitation.
      (2)   Said declaration must be stated in writing, within 24 hours of the
occurrence, and filed with/by the Town Clerk, in accordance with UCA § 53-2a-
209.
   (B)   Emergency command center established.
      (1)   The Town Hall is designated as the emergency command center for
purposes of this section. It may be activated and staffed under the direction
of the Mayor, or assistant primary evacuation contact(s) in the absence of the
Mayor, as designated in App. B, attached to the resolution codified herein. As
a secondary or alternate resource, the Delta, Utah Stake Center may be used.
      (2)   App. B, attached to the resolution codified herein, must be
reviewed and updated in January, annually.
      (3)   The emergency command center will have telephonic capabilities
available, and other emergency supplies maintained as the Town Council may deem
advisable.
   (C)   Town Council responsibilities.
      (1)   The Mayor is designated as the “primary evacuation contact”, as
referenced in this section, and is the individual having the responsibility to
be the point of contact to enact this evacuation plan. The Mayor is also in
charge of all operations of the emergency command center, when activated,
except as provided below. (See App. B, attached to the resolution codified
herein.)
      (2)   (a)   The term “assistant primary evacuation contacts” as
referenced in this section, are the individuals responsible for assisting the
primary evacuation contact in matters pertaining to the town’s Evacuation Plan.
         (b)   The two senior Town Council members are designated as assistant
primary evacuation contacts.
         (c)   In the event that the primary evacuation contact or the two
senior Council persons are unavailable, or incapacitated, the two junior Town
Council members will serve as the assistant primary evacuation contacts.
         (d)   These positions will carry all responsibilities of the primary
evacuation contacts, and will be in charge of all operations of the “emergency
command center” in the event of the Mayor’s absence.
         (e)   See App. B, attached to the resolution codified herein.
      (3)   All available members of the Town Council shall be responsible for
staffing emergency phones at the command center; acting as supervisors of
others called in to assist; as well as performing other tasks as assigned by
the Mayor, or the assistant primary evacuation contacts. (See App. B, attached
to the resolution codified herein.)
      (4)   All persons listed in App. B, attached to the resolution codified
herein, are expected to respond at the request of the Town Council to assist in
an emergency situation or evacuation. (See App. B, attached to the resolution
codified herein.)
      (5)   The “chain”, as outlined in the image below, shall establish the
procedure to be followed in emergency evacuations.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/093815bee1ca34cc69f0f9b52e8aa19d42ee1849/
IMAGES/0-0-0-827.png]
      (6)   This plan shall utilize all available resources of the local
churches and civic organizations.
(See current list of local bishops, et al., in App. B, attached to the
resolution codified herein.)
      (7)   As a general rule, in the event of an emergency evacuation,
residents will be directed to the Delta, Utah Stake Center. Depending on the
catastrophic event or, in the event the Stake Center is damaged, or
unreachable, other gathering places will be announced by the best available
local means.
   (D)   References. The term “federal government contact” referenced in this
section is an individual serving as the representative for pertinent
governmental agencies associated with this Evacuation Plan. This individual
will work closely with the town in development and maintenance of this plan and
will be available to attend bi-yearly meetings to review the plan, and to
answer any questions that arise in the interim: Bureau of Land Management
offices, Richfield, Utah.
(Res. 2003-06, passed 3-20-2003)
CHAPTER 35:  FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Sales and Use Tax
   
35.01   Title
   
35.02   Purpose
   
35.03   Effective date
   
35.04   Tax imposed
 
   
35.99   Penalty
SALES AND USE TAX
§ 35.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Sales and Use Tax Ordinance of the
Town of Oak City”.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-1)  (Ord. 1990-01, passed 1-18-1990)
§ 35.02  PURPOSE.
   (A)   Authorization of tax. The forty-eighth session of the Utah legislature
authorized the counties and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use
tax ordinances imposing a 1% tax.
   (B)   Tax established. It is the purpose of this subchapter to conform the
sales and use tax of the town to the requirements of the Sales and Use Tax Act,
UCA Title 59, Ch. 12, as currently amended.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-2)  (Ord. 1990-01, passed 1-18-1990)
§ 35.03  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter became effective as of 12:01 a.m., 1-1-1990.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-3)  (Ord. 1990-01, passed 1-18-1990)
§ 35.04  TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Imposed.
      (1)   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the town at the rate of 1%.
      (2)   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the town of tangible personal property from any retailer on or
after the operative date hereof at the rate of 1% of the sales price of the
property.
      (3)   For the purposes of this subchapter, all retail sales shall be
presumed to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the
retailer or his or her agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state designation. In the event a retailer
has no permanent place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules and regulations
prescribed and adopted by the state’s Tax Commission. Public utilities, as
defined by UCA Title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or
places within any county or municipality where public utilities are rendered,
but the place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service
allocable to the town shall be as determined by the state’s Tax Commission
pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by it.
   (B)   Adoption of state codes; provisions.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act, all of the
provisions of UCA Title 59, Ch. 12, as amended, insofar as they relate to sales
taxes, excepting UCA § 59-12-101 thereof, are hereby adopted and made a part of
this subchapter as though fully set forth herein.
      (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that in UCA Title 59, Ch. 12, the state
is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the town shall be
substituted therefor. Nothing in this division (B) shall be deemed to require
substitution of the name of the town for the word “state” when the word is used
as part of the title of the state’s Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of
the state, nor shall the name of the town be substituted for that of the state
in any section when the result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against the state’s Tax Commission in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this subchapter.
      (3)   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under UCA § 59-
12-106, an additional license shall not be required by reason of this section.
      (4)   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by
which the tax is measured:
         (a)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer; and
         (b)   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sales transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the Sales and Use Tax Act.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-4)  (Ord. 1990-01, passed 1-18-1990)
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
35.01 through
35.04 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-5)  (Ord. 1990-01, passed 1-18-1990)
CHAPTER 36:  FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
36.01   Fee schedule
§ 36.01  FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fees and rates are hereby adopted by the town:
   (A)   Water system rates and fees.
Commercial Water Rates - Monthly      Same as residential water rate
Residential Water Rates - Monthly
   Base (Minimum charge)           $22
   Tier 1: 0 - 15,000 gallons      $0.30/1,000 gallons
   Tier 2: 16,000 - 45,000 gallons $1.20/1,000 gallons
   Tier 3: 46,000 - 60,000 gallons $1.30/1,000 gallons
   Tier 4: 61,000+ gallons         $1.35/1,000 gallons
Water Service Connection Fees
   Residential service - 3/4"      $1,200
   Residential service - 1"        $1,800
   Commercial service              Negotiated
   Other service types             Negotiated
   Service upgrade/renewal/relocatiActual cost
   Connect/disconnect fee
      At meter                  $25
      At water main or lateral  Actual cost
   Water main extension            Actual cost
 
   (B)   Electric system rates and fees.
Commercial Electric Rates (Schedule B) - Monthly
   Customer charge (minimum charge)                       $2
   First 5,000 kWh                                        $0.070/kWh
   Over 5,000 kWh                                         $0.050/kWh
Electric Service Connection Fees
   Residential service - overhead or underground up to 200$3,800
   Residential service - overhead or underground, over 200Negotiated
   Commercial service - overhead/ underground             Negotiated
   Other service types                                    Negotiated
   Service upgrade/renewal/relocation                     Actual cost
   Connect/disconnect fee
      At meter or cut-out                              $25
      Primary or secondary line                        Actual cost
   Primary line extension over 150 feet                   Actual cost
Pumping Service Electrical Rates (Schedule C) - Monthly
   Demand charge (per horsepower connected over 10hp)     $4/hp
   Energy charge
      All kWh                                          $0.050/kWh
   Minimum monthly charge                                 $3/hp, but not
                                                             less than $10
Residential Electric Rates (Schedule A) - Monthly
   Customer charge (minimum charge)                       $2
   First 5,000 kWh                                        $0.070/kWh
   Over 5,000 kWh                                         $0.050/kWh
 
   (C)   General utility fees.
Account transfer                             $25
Delinquent account interest                  3% for amounts over 30 days past-
charge                                       due
Landfill fee - monthly
processing by town (per                      $0.25
customer)
   Set By Millard County  Quarterly Usage Monthly Charge
                             (Cu. Yds)
   Residential            3               $12
   Commercial Class 1     0 - 10          $14.50
   Commercial Class 2     11 - 25         $29
   Commercial Class 3     26 - 50         $58
   Commercial Class 4     51 - 100        $116
   Commercial Class 5     101 - 150       $232
   Commercial Class 6     151 - 200       $309
   Commercial Class 7     200+            Individually assessed at $4.50/yd
Late payment penalty                         10% of current past-due amount
Meter read - inaccessibility                 $5
charge
                                             $200 (waived with qualified
Renter security deposit                      guarantor. Refunded after 2 years
                                             of no missed or late payments)
 
   (D)   Community development.
 
Building permits             Determined by County Building Inspector
Business licenses
   Home occupation - annua$25
   Small commercial - annu$25
Water system impact fee      $2,700
 
   (E)   Animal control.
Animal license - one-time (requires initial documentation)
   Spayed/neutered                                            $10
   Non-spayed/neutered                                        $25
   Kennel fee                                                 $50
Annual tag (requires updated documentation by April 1 each year) $2
Boarding fee (in addition to impound fee)                        $5/day
Impound fee
   1st impound                                                $30
   2nd impound                                                $60
   3rd impound                                                $120
Replacement tag                                                  $2
 
   (F)   Parks and recreation.
Recreation Fees
                                                                              At cost,
                                                                   Soccer     determined
                                                                              at signup
                                                                              At cost,
                                                                   Baseball   determined
                                                                              at signup
                                                                              At cost,
   Youth sports                                                 Basketball determined
                                                                              at signup
                                                                              At cost,
                                                                   T-Ball     determined
                                                                              at signup
                                                                   Recreation At cost,
                                                                   shirt      determined
                                                                              at signup
Town Hall Rentals
                                                                   2 hours    $60
                                                                   (minimum)
                                                                   4 - 6      $100
                                                                   hours
   Main hall                                                    All day    $200
                                                                   (6+ hours)
                                                                   Wedding
                                                                   (includes  $250
                                                                   setup day)
   Conference room (no dinners w/o permission)
                                                                   With main
                                                                   hall       Add $25
                                                                   rental
                                                                   Separate   $50
                                                                   use
   Hall cleaning deposit, refundable upon inspection, following           $100
rental
   Damage fees, determined and applied following occurrence               At cost of
                                                                              repairs
   Pavilion reservation fee (for specific use)                            $10
*If pavilion, hall or other park facilities are used for extended periods, a daily use
fee shall be negotiated.
 
   (G)   Cemetery.
Cemetery Fees
   Burial fees - grave opening and closing
      Adult burial                              $250
      Child burial                              $200
      Infant (hand dug)                         $150
      Cremation                                 $50
   Burial plot - includes burial right and perpetual care
      Local purchaser (84649 zip code)          $400
      Non-local purchaser (other than 84649 zip $800)
   Disinterment                                    $250
                                                      It is customary in some
                                                      areas to require permits
                                                      for placement or
                                                      relocation of headstones
                                                      and monuments or for
   Other fees                                      after hours service. At
                                                      this time, the Oak City
                                                      Cemetery requires only
                                                      that notice given prior
                                                      to any work done within
                                                      the cemetery boundary.
 
   (H)   General fees.
 
Fax fees
   Send         $1/page
   Receive      First page: $1
                   Following pages: $0.50/page
Notary fee         $1
Photocopies        $0.10/page
Returned check fee $25
 
(Res. 2021-02, passed 3-18-2021; Res. 2021-06, passed 8-19-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER USE AND SERVICE
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
      
52.   BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS
CHAPTER 50:  WATER USE AND SERVICE
Section
Water Department
   
50.01   Creation
   
50.02   Superintendent of Water; duties
   
50.03   Culinary Water Master Plan
Regulations and Requirements
   
50.15   Applications for connection; service
   
50.16   Fees
   
50.17   Statement of charges; delinquency
   
50.18   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.19   Discontinuance of service by customer
   
50.20   Use without payment or authority
   
50.21   Water lines; installation
   
50.22   Pipe requirements
   
50.23   Water mains extended
   
50.24   Sprinkling vehicles
   
50.25   Access by Department
   
50.26   Motors and certain machinery restricted
   
50.27   Fire hydrants
   
50.28   Scarcity of water
   
50.29   Excessive use of sprinklers
   
50.30   Outside residence watering; waste of water
   
50.31   Service outside town
   
50.32   Non-liability of damages
Water Meters
   
50.45   Number of meters; dispute
   
50.46   Meters furnished by town
   
50.47   Disputes
   
50.48   Meter readings
   
50.49   Tampering
   
50.50   Meter testing
   
50.51   Estimation in case of failure
   
50.52   Damage by customer
 
   
50.99   Penalty
WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 50.01  CREATION.
   The Water Department of the town is hereby created. It shall administer the
operation and maintenance of the water system of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 50.02  SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER; DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Superintendent of Water.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Water shall manage and supervise the town water
system pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and pursuant to resolutions,
rules and regulations adopted by the Town Council from time to time prescribing
his or her powers and duties and directing the manner and frequency with which
he or she shall make reports to the Mayor relating to the water system. All of
the functions and activities of the Superintendent of Water shall be carried
out under the direction of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 50.03  CULINARY WATER MASTER PLAN.
   The 2021 Culinary Water Master Plan is hereby adopted. A full copy of the
plan can be found in the Town Clerk’s office.
(Res. 2021-08, passed 12-16-2021)
REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.15  APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTION; SERVICE.
   (A)   Connection. Any person, other than a subdivider or developer seeking
multiple connections, who desires or is required to secure a new connection to
the town water system, shall file with the Water Department for each such
connection a written and signed connection application, the forms for which are
on file in the office of the Water Department.
   (B)   Connection by subdividers. Whenever a subdivider or developer desires
or is required to install water connections and extensions for a subdivision or
development, the subdivider or developer shall enter into a written extension
agreement, which shall constitute an application for permission to make the
extensions and connections, and an agreement specifying the terms and
conditions under which the water extensions and connections shall be made and
the payments that shall be required.
   (C)   Service. Any person who desires or is required to secure water service
when such service is available from the town water system, shall file with the
Water Department a written application and agreement for the service, the forms
for which are on file in the office of the Water Department.
   (D)   Timely installation of culinary water service connections.
      (1)   Water service applicants have one year from the time their water
service application and agreement is approved and fees, including impact fees,
are paid in full to have their water service installed. This installation rule
will be in effect for any and all past water service applications and
agreements that are currently approved and waiting to be installed.
      (2)   Water service applicants may come before the Town Council to
discuss a three-month extension if necessary. Water service connections are
non-transferable. A full refund of the actual fees paid at the time of the
application will be due to the water service connection applicant in the case
of non-action pertaining to installation.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)  (Ord. 2021-05, passed 12-16-2021)
§ 50.16  FEES.
   (A)   Service rates and connection fees. The rates, penalty fee for
delinquency in payment, connection fee, reservoir fee, inspection fee and other
charges incidental to connection and services from the town water system shall
be fixed from time to time by resolution enacted by the Town Council. The Town
Council may from time to time promulgate rules for levying, billing,
guaranteeing and collecting charges for water services and all other rules
necessary for the management and control of the water system. Rates for
services furnished shall be uniform with respect to each class or classes of
service established or that may hereafter be established. A copy of the
consolidated fee schedule is on file in the city office.
   (B)   Special rates. The Town Council may from time to time fix by agreement
or resolution special rates and conditions for users using exceptionally large
amounts of water service or making use of the water system under exceptional
circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as it may deem proper.
   (C)   Complaints; corrections. The Town Council is hereby constituted a
board of equalization of water rates to hear complaints and make corrections of
any assessments deemed to be illegal, unequal or unjust. It may, if it sees
fit, rebate all or any part of the water bill of any indigent person.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 50.17  STATEMENT OF CHARGES; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Statement. The Town Clerk or Superintendent of Water shall furnish to
each user, or mail to, or leave at his or her place of residence or usual place
of business, a written or printed statement stating thereon the amount of water
service charges assessed against him or her once each month or at such other
regular interval as the Town Council shall direct.
   (B)   Failure to pay. The statement shall specify the amount of the bill for
the water service and the place of payment and date due. If any person fails to
pay the water charges within 30 days of the date due, the Town Clerk or
Superintendent of Water shall give the customer notice in writing of intent to
discontinue the service to the customer unless the customer pays the bill in
full within five days from the date of notice.
   (C)   Discontinued service for delinquent payment. If the water service is
thereafter discontinued for failure to make payment, then before the water
service to the premises shall again be provided, all delinquent water charges
must have been paid to the Town Treasurer or arrangements made for their
payment in a manner satisfactory to the town. In the event water is turned off
for non-payment of water charges, then before the water service to the premises
shall again be provided, the customer shall pay, in addition to all delinquent
water charges, such extra charge for turning the water on and off as the Town
Council may have established by resolution. The consolidated fee schedule is on
file in the city office. Furthermore, in addition to such payments and
penalties, a delinquent customer may be required to make and file a new
application and deposit if the previous deposit has theretofore been applied to
the payment of delinquent bills. The Town Clerk is hereby authorized and
empowered to enforce the payment of all delinquent water charges by an action
at law in the name of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 50.18  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person and
by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or
in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official in charge
of utility billing.  This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $25.
§ 50.19  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE BY CUSTOMER.
   Any customer desiring to discontinue service shall notify the town in
writing of such fact at least ten days before the date when such service shall
be discontinued. On giving such written notice, the customer shall not be
responsible for water bills incurred after the date specified in the notice.
Any credit balance in favor of the customer as a result of an advance payment
of bills or a deposit made will be refunded upon discontinuation of service.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 50.20  USE WITHOUT PAYMENT OR AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person by himself or herself, family,
servants or agents to utilize the town water system without paying therefor, as
herein provided or, without authority, to open any fire hydrant, stopcock,
valve or other fixtures attached to the system of water supply unless it is
done pursuant to proper application, agreement or resolution. It shall be
unlawful to injure, deface or impair any part or appurtenance of the water or
sewer system, or to cast anything into any reservoir or tank belonging to the
water system.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
   (B)   (1)   Turning on after being turned off prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off from the premises
for non-payment of water charges or other violation of the ordinances, rules,
regulations or resolutions pertaining to the water supply, to turn on or allow
the water to be turned on or used without authority from the Superintendent of
Water or Town Clerk.
      (2)   Separate connections. It shall be unlawful for two or more families
or service users to be supplied from the same service pipe, connection or water
meter unless special permission for such combination usage has been granted by
the Town Council and the premises served are owned by the same owner. In all
such cases, a failure on the part of any one of the users to comply with this
division (B)(2) shall warrant a withholding of a supply of water through the
service connections until compliance or payment has been made, and in any
event, the property owner shall be primarily liable to the town for all water
services utilized on all such premises. Nothing herein shall be deemed to
preclude the power of the town to require separate pipes, connections or meters
at a subsequent time.
      (3)   Unauthorized users. It shall be unlawful for any water service user
to permit any person from other premises or any unauthorized person to use or
obtain water services regularly from his or her premises or water facilities,
either outside or inside his or her premises.
      (4)   Adjoining premises. No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water
pipes across lots or buildings to adjoining premises without permission from
the Superintendent of Water and subject to such requirements relating to
controls as may be imposed by him or her.
      (5)   Visitors. Individuals visiting the premises of an authorized user
in a recreational vehicle, not including a mobile home, and continuing to live
therein during the period of visitation may receive water service from the
service pipes or facilities of the host during the visitation period which
shall not exceed two months. Continued use thereafter shall be deemed
unauthorized and violative of the provisions of this chapter relating to
separate connections and unauthorized use.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21  WATER LINES; INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, repair,
alter or connect any water line to the town culinary water system without first
having received a construction permit from the office of the Town Clerk or from
the Superintendent of Water.
   (B)   Application. Applications for permits to make water connections or
other alteration or for laying or repairing lines connected directly or
indirectly to the town water system must be made in writing by a licensed
plumber, his or her authorized agent, or by the owner of the premises who shall
describe the nature of the work to be done for which the application is made.
   (C)   Determination of approval. The application shall be granted if the
Superintendent of Water determines that:
      (1)   The connection, repair, alteration or installation will cause no
damage to the street in which the water main is laid, or that it will not be
prejudicial to the interests of persons whose property has been or may
thereafter be connected to the water main; and
      (2)   The connection conforms to the ordinances, regulations,
specifications and standards of materials required by the town.
   (D)   Line and grade designation. All connections, alterations or
installations shall be to the line and grade designated by the Superintendent
of Water.
   (E)   Fees. Fees for permits or for inspection services shall be of such
amounts as the Town Council shall from time to time determine by resolution.
The consolidated fee schedule is on file in the town office.
   (F)   Moving or replacement of water lines. In the event that the town, in
its sole discretion, determines that any water line of the town must be moved
or replaced, the town shall bear that portion of the cost of such move or
replacement which applies to main lines up to the property line of the
customer. The cost of reconnecting such new line or lines from the house of the
customer to his or her property line shall be borne by the customer.
   (G)   Plumbing requirements. Permission to connect with the town water
system shall not be given unless the plumbing in the house or building to be
connected meets the provisions of the Building and Plumbing Codes of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22  PIPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Good repair. All users of water services shall keep their service
pipes and connections and other apparatus in good repair and protected from
frost at their own expense. No person, except under the direction of the
Superintendent of Water, shall be allowed to dig into the street for the
purpose of laying, removing or repairing any service pipe.
   (B)   Quality of service pipe. All service and other pipe used in
conjunction with the water services of the town shall be of such material,
quality and specifications as the Town Council may from time to time by
resolution provide, and shall be installed at such distances below ground as
may be specified by regulations relating to the Water Department. All work,
alterations or extensions affecting water pipes shall be subject to the
acceptance by the Superintendent of Water, and no connections with any water
mains shall be made without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Town
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23  WATER MAINS EXTENDED.
   (A)   Petition to Town Council. Any person, including any subdivider, who
desires to have the water mains extended within the town, and is willing to
advance the whole expense of such extension and receive the return of an agreed
portion thereof, as hereinafter provided, may make application to the Town
Council by petition. The petition shall contain a description of such proposed
extension accompanied by a map showing the location of the proposed extension
together with an offer to advance the whole expense thereof, which cost shall
be verified by the Superintendent of Water. The Town Council may grant or deny
the petition as, in its discretion, deems best for the welfare of existing
water users in the town.
   (B)   Cost determined. Upon the receipt of such petition and map and before
the petition is granted, the Town Council shall obtain from the Superintendent
of Water a certified statement showing the whole cost or expense of making such
extension.
   (C)   Amount deposited. If the Town Council grants the petition, the amount
of the cost of making the extension, as certified by the Superintendent of
Water, shall be deposited with the Town Clerk before any work shall be done on
such extension. The deposit shall be made within 30 days, or such other time as
the Town Council shall indicate, after the granting thereof.
   (D)   Return of deposit. At the time the Town Council decides whether or not
to grant petition for an extension, it shall also decide whether or not any
portion of the costs is to be refunded and the manner and circumstances under
which such refund shall be made or credited to the applicant, his or her
successors or representatives. Such determination shall be duly recorded in
writing and a copy thereof furnished to the applicant.
   (E)   Forfeiture. In the event any deposit remains unclaimed for a period of
five years after the depositor has discontinued water service, the deposit may
be forfeited and then transferred to the Water Fund.
   (F)   Ownership of extension. Any such extension shall be deemed the
property of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10)
§ 50.24  SPRINKLING VEHICLES.
   Vehicles for sprinkling shall be regulated and controlled by the Water
Department through the Superintendent of Water.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11)
§ 50.25  ACCESS BY DEPARTMENT.
   The Superintendent of Water and his or her agents shall, at all ordinary
hours, have free access to any place supplied with water services from the town
system for the purpose of examining the apparatus and ascertaining the amount
of water service being used and the manner of its use.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-12)
§ 50.26  MOTORS AND CERTAIN MACHINERY RESTRICTED.
   No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the town water system for the
purpose of driving motor, syphon, turbine or other wheels, or any hydraulic
engines or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose,
except by special permission of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-13)
§ 50.27  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Water for fire hydrants will be furnished free of charge by the town for the
use of the town. Installation and repairs on such hydrants shall be at the
expense of the town and shall be made under the direction of the town. All
customers shall grant the town, upon demand, a right-of-way or easement to
install and maintain such hydrants on their premises if the town concludes that
hydrants shall be so installed for the protection of the residents of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-14)
§ 50.28  SCARCITY OF WATER.
   (A)   In time of scarcity of culinary water, whenever in the judgment of the
Mayor, Town Council or appointed town officer, the amount of water available
for culinary use is limited, emergency water schedules and rates shall be
posted at two or more public locations in the community.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the user to be aware of the
emergency gallonage restrictions, watering schedules and rates imposed by the
Town Council as necessary under existing or anticipated shortage periods.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent to violate any
proclamation made pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-15)  (Ord. 87-01, passed 8-2-1987)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29  EXCESSIVE USE OF SPRINKLERS.
   (A)   Effect on town water system. It shall be unlawful for any person to
use such number of outlets simultaneously or to use such number of sprinklers
or combination of sprinklers or outlets as will, in the opinion of the Town
Council or its appointed official, materially affect the pressure or supply of
water in the town water system or any part thereof. The Town Council or its
appointed officials may from time to time specify combinations or numbers of
outlets which may have such effect.
   (B)   Order to discontinue. The Town Council shall, after determining that
such improper use exists, notify the affected water user or the owner of the
premises whereon such use occurs of such determination in writing, order such
use discontinued and advise that such continued usage constitutes a violation
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-16)  (Ord. 87-01, passed 8-20-1987)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.30  OUTSIDE RESIDENCE WATERING; WASTE OF WATER.
   (A)   Irrigation and stock watering. Pressurized culinary irrigation and
stock watering water is available to residents of the town upon compliance with
existing payment schedules and regulations.
   (B)   Violations prohibited. All open lines shall not be allowed to operate
in such a manner as to violate the spirit and intent of this chapter.
   (C)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any water user to waste water or allow it to be
wasted by imperfect stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or to flood irrigate, or
to use the water for purposes other than those for which he or she has paid, or
to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for controlling the
town’s water supply.
      (2)   Users of water from the town culinary system shall not permit water
to continue to run wastefully without due efforts to conserve the supply.
   (D)   Termination of service; meeting. The Town Council may, thereupon,
consider terminating the right of the individual to use culinary water. If it
elects to consider the matter of termination, it shall give notice to the water
user of the intention to terminate his or her water connection at least five
days prior to the meeting of the Town Council at which termination of water
service is to be considered. The notice shall inform him or her of the time and
place of the meeting and the charges which lead to the consideration of the
termination.
   (E)   Appearance by water user. A water user whose right to utilize town
water is being reviewed shall have opportunity to appear with or without
counsel and present the reasons why his or her water service should not be
discontinued.
   (F)   Determination.
      (1)   After due hearing, the Town Council may arrive at a determination.
      (2)   If the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user’s
service connection, the Town Council shall notify him or her of the decision
and of the period during which the service will remain discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-17)  (Ord. 87-01, passed 8-20-1987)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31  SERVICE OUTSIDE TOWN.
   Outside water connections are not available from the town at the current
time.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-19)
§ 50.32  NON-LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   The town shall not be held liable for any damage to a water service
user by reason of stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service
caused by fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains,
or which occurs as the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from
any other unavoidable cause.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to extend the liability of the
town beyond that provided in the Governmental Immunity Act.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see UCA §§ 63G-7-101 et seq.
WATER METERS
§ 50.45  NUMBER OF METERS; DISPUTE.
   Except as otherwise expressly permitted by this chapter, all structures,
dwelling units, establishments and persons using water from the town water
system must have such number of water meters connected to their water system as
are necessary in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water to adequately
measure use and determine water charges to the respective users.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-18)
§ 50.46  METERS FURNISHED BY TOWN.
   Meters will be furnished by the town upon application for a connection, and
upon payment of such connection fees and other costs as may be established by
the Town Council from time to time by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-18)
§ 50.47  DISPUTES.
   (A)   Meters shall be deemed to be and remain the property of the town.
   (B)   Whenever a dispute between the Superintendent of Water and the
property owner arises as to the appropriate number of meters to be installed on
any premises, the matter shall be heard and determined by the Town Council
after due notice in writing to the parties involved.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-18)
§ 50.48  METER READINGS.
   The Superintendent of Water shall cause meter readings to be taken regularly
and shall advise the Town Treasurer thereof for the purpose of recording the
necessary billings for water service.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-18)
§ 50.49  TAMPERING.
   Meters may be checked, inspected or adjusted at the discretion of the town,
and they shall not be adjusted or tampered with by the customer. Meter boxes
shall not be opened for the purpose of turning on or off the water, except by
an authorized representative of the town, unless special permission is given by
the town through its representatives to the customer to do so.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-18)Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.50  METER TESTING.
   If a customer submits a written request to the Superintendent of Water to
test his or her water meter, the town may, if under the circumstances it deems
it advisable and in its discretion, order a test of the meter measuring the
water delivered to such customer. If such request is made within 12 months
after the date of the last previous test, the customer may be required to pay
the cost of such test. If the meter is found in such test to record from 97% to
103% of accuracy under methods of testing satisfactory to the Town Council, the
meter shall be deemed to accurately measure the use of water.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-18)
§ 50.51  ESTIMATION IN CASE OF FAILURE.
   If the town’s meters fail to register at any time, the water delivered
during the period of failure shall be estimated on the basis of previous
consumption during a period which is not questioned. In the event a meter is
found to be recording less than 97% or more than 103% of accuracy, the town
shall make such adjustments in the customer’s previous bills as are just and
fair under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-18)
§ 50.52  DAMAGE BY CUSTOMER.
   All damages or injury to the lines, meters or other materials of the town on
or near the customer’s premises caused by any act or neglect of the customer
shall, in the discretion of the town, be repaired by and at the expense of the
customer, and the customer shall pay all costs and expenses, including
reasonable attorney fees, which may arise or accrue to the town through its
efforts to repair the damage to the lines, meters or to other equipment of the
Department or collect such costs from the customer.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-18)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, or any other
officer of the town, a water user engages in any practice which results in the
needless waste of water, per §
50.29 of this chapter, the following penalties may be applied:
      (1)   First infraction: the user shall receive a warning and have his or
her name placed on a check-back list;
      (2)   Second infraction: requires the payment of a $25 fine; and
      (3)   Third infraction: shall be considered a Class B misdemeanor, which
is punishable by a fine as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-17)  (Ord. 87-01, passed 8-20-1987)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER SYSTEM EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
Section
   
51.01   Introduction; objectives
   
51.02   Emergency classifications
   
51.03   Organization
   
51.04   Updating and training
§ 51.01  INTRODUCTION; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   This Emergency Response Plan (ERP) defines responsibilities and
procedures designed to identify and respond to any unusual and unlikely
occurrence that may endanger the integrity of the town’s Culinary Water
Treatment Plant or Distribution System. The plan provides for the timely
response to any such emergency. It also provides for the notification of proper
public officials, and others, in the case of such an occurrence.
   (B)   A list of individuals and their responsibilities are identified in
Attachment A (attached to the resolution codified herein), and shall be kept
current with their respective phone numbers.
(Res. 2003-01, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 51.02  EMERGENCY CLASSIFICATIONS.
        Routine emergency
        Town personnel and equipment are sufficient to handle the problem
Level 1 The Emergency Control Center is not activated
        The Emergency Coordinator may also serve as the Public Relations
        Coordinator
        Minor emergency
        Town and contractor personnel and equipment are sufficient to handle
        problem with longer shifts than normal
Level 2 Additional personnel or equipment may need to be placed on alert
        The Emergency Control Center is activated and staffed
        The Emergency Coordinator may also serve as the Public Relations
        Coordinator
        Major Emergency
        Town and contractor personnel and equipment are insufficient
        Requires all staff members to work extra hours and/or additional shifts
Level 3 Requires assistance of personnel and equipment from outside sources
        May require a declaration of emergency
        Emergency Control Center is activated and staffed
        Public Relations Coordinator position is activated
        Disaster
        Situation is clearly and immediately beyond the capabilities of the
        town and contractor equipment
        Assistance from any and all agencies must immediately be requested
Level 4 Recovery time will exceed one week
        Extended shifts of all town staff members will be required for at least
        a week
        Requires a declaration of emergency
        The Emergency Control Center is activated and manned
        The Public Relations Coordinator position is activated
 
(Res. 2003-01, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 51.03  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The town owns the town’s culinary water infrastructure. The
responsible official is the Mayor. Daily operations and maintenance of the
culinary water infrastructure may be delegated to the Water Superintendent.
      (2)   The Water Superintendent insures that the culinary water
infrastructure is operated and maintained in compliance with state’s public
drinking water regulations and standard system operating procedures. When the
Water Superintendent is unavailable, the certified water system operator is
responsible to make those decisions required for the maintenance and operation
of the system in consultation with, and under the direction of, the Mayor.
      (3)   As a minimum emergency response, the certified water system
operator or the Water Superintendent shall immediately:
         (a)   Identify the emergency situation;
         (b)   Determine necessary recommendations;
         (c)   Contact the Mayor for appropriate response; and
         (d)   Assist the Mayor in contacting other appropriate emergency
services.
   (B)   Emergency declaration; Emergency Coordinator. The Water Superintendent
shall serve as the Emergency Coordinator for purposes of this chapter, and,
after consultation with the Mayor, is responsible for:
      (1)   Declaring any emergency related to the culinary water
infrastructure;
      (2)   Declaring the level of the emergency;
      (3)   Coordinating all emergency response actions to be taken;
      (4)   Assessing and prioritizing repairs;
      (5)   Coordinating the actions of the contractor or other personnel and
equipment, including such agencies as law enforcement, fire fighting and
medical personnel;
      (6)   Keeping a written log of all actions taken;
      (7)   Communicating with the engineer to determine steps to be taken to
facilitate the rapid repair/replacement of water infrastructure, and requesting
his or her presence, when required:
         (a)   Prioritize the repair or replacement of all damaged facilities/
infrastructure; and
         (b)   The determination of priorities shall be based on:
            1.   The condition of the culinary water treatment plant and
distribution system;
            2.   The effect of the repairs/replacement on future system
integrity;
            3.   Medical and/or emergency care requirements;
            4.   Drinking water and sanitation needs of the public;
            5.   Fire fighting requirements;
            6.   Amount of water remaining in storage; and
            7.   Areas of the distribution system that have the highest
priority water needs.
      (8)   Assuring that the Emergency Control Center is activated and
staffed, when the level of the emergency warrants;
      (9)   Informing and communicating with the state’s Division of Drinking
Water regarding and extraordinary measures taken to deal with the emergency.
This would include, but not be limited to, boil orders, unusual repair methods
or use of unapproved water sources; and
      (10)   Post emergency assessment. To include:
         (a)   A detailed safety inspection of the town’s culinary water
infrastructure;
         (b)   The repairs made or portions of the facilities in an emergency
fashion;
         (c)   Document all contracts, agreements, emergency work or materials
used during the emergency;
         (d)   Procure emergency reimbursement money from state and federal
agencies;
         (e)   Ensure proper payment for all work, equipment and materials used
during the emergency;
         (f)   Inform all key agencies of the system status and of any further
work to be completed; and
         (g)   Certify repaired portions of the system as ready for use.
   (C)   Public Relations Coordinator.
      (1)   The Mayor shall be the Public Relations Coordinator and will be
responsible for all news releases to the media. In a Level 3 or Level 4
emergency, the Mayor shall determine the necessity of making any public
notification, by any reasonable means, including:
         (a)   Having the Fire Department or law enforcement personnel make
announcements by loudspeaker while driving the town streets;
         (b)   Having religious organizations spread notifications to their
members;
         (c)   Posting public notices; and
         (d)   Utilizing any reasonable means of notification.
      (2)   Will be responsible for issuing emergency information to the
public, including:
         (a)   Any possible contamination to the drinking water;
         (b)   Emergency procedures;
         (c)   Boil orders: define areas effected;
         (d)   The availability and location of alternate sources of drinking
water;
         (e)   Any water use restrictions or conservation measures; and
         (f)   Declaring the end of the emergency.
      (3)   Will work closely with the Emergency Coordinator to ensure that all
information released is accurate and timely;
      (4)   Will be responsible for contacting the Department of Environmental
Quality, Division of Drinking Water, for assistance; and
      (5)   After making every reasonable effort to contact the Mayor and being
unsuccessful, the Water Superintendent shall act as Public Relations
Coordinator:
   (D)   Emergency control center.
      (1)   Shall be located at the Town Hall, unless otherwise designated by
the Emergency Coordinator on each emergency occurrence basis;
      (2)   If town staff members are unavailable or occupied with other
duties, the Emergency Coordinator may designate other qualified personnel as
staff; and
      (3)   Should only be activated during a Level 2, Level 3 or Level 4
emergency or as deemed necessary by the Emergency Coordinator.
   (E)   General definitions and responsibilities. (See Attachment A, attached
to the resolution codified herein.)
      CERTIFIED WATER SYSTEM OPERATOR. The individual having responsibility for
the maintenance of the culinary water treatment plant and distribution system.
This person shall possess at least a Grade III operator certification for
culinary water treatment in accordance with the state’s Drinking Water Operator
Certification Regulations. This person shall report directly, first to the
Water Superintendent or, secondly, to the Mayor.
      CONTRACTOR. An individual or corporation, generally having a continuing
relationship with the town, who provides labor and equipment for the repair,
maintenance and operation of the culinary water infrastructure in the event of
an emergency. The CONTRACTOR should possess training and experience with
culinary water infrastructure and be licensed in the state with an E-100
engineering license.
      ENGINEER. An individual or corporation; generally having a continuing
relationship with the town, who provides technical advice and assistance
pertaining to the treatment plant and distribution system. The ENGINEER may be
an employee of the town or a consultant retained to provide advice and support.
The ENGINEER shall possess qualifications, training and experience with
culinary water infrastructure and shall be a licensed professional engineer in
the state.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Oak City. The MAYOR shall generally act
as the Public Relations Coordinator and assist the Water Superintendent in
administrative matters.
      NEIGHBORING COMMUNITY. A city, town or county near the Town of Oak City
that may be called upon to lend assistance in terms of labor, materials,
equipment and advice in times of emergency.
      RURAL WATER AUTHORITY. An agency/individual that has direct
responsibility for the region in which the Town of Oak City is located. The
RURAL WATER AUTHORITY may be contacted for assistance as needed.
      TOWN COUNCIL MEMBER. A member of the Town of Oak City Town Council
designated as the “Water Superintendent” responsible for the culinary water
infrastructure.
      TOWN STAFF MEMBER. Any employee of the Town of Oak City, including town
officials not already listed.
(Res. 2003-01, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 51.04  UPDATING AND TRAINING.
   (A)   This plan does not attempt to identify every type of emergency
situation, but does act as a general guide to any emergency. The Town Council
shall direct that training sessions be held, as deemed necessary, which
addresses specific emergency situations or changing circumstances.
   (B)   Attachment A to this Emergency Response Plan (attached to the
resolution codified herein) shall be reviewed/revised at least annually and
kept current as personnel and phone numbers change.
(Res. 2003-01, passed 1-16-2003)
CHAPTER 52:  BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
52.01   General purposes
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Responsibilities
   
52.04   Requirements
   
52.05   Discontinuance of service
§ 52.01  GENERAL PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are as follows:
   (A)   Protection of water supply. To protect the safe drinking water supply
of the town from the possibility of contamination or pollution by requiring
compliance with state and local plumbing codes, health regulations, OSHA and
other applicable industry standards for water system safety within the
consumer’s internal distribution system or private water system. Compliance
with these minimum safety codes will be considered reasonable vigilance for
prevention of contaminants or pollutants which could backflow into the public
drinking water systems;
   (B)   Elimination or control of cross-connections. To promote reasonable
elimination or control of cross-connections in the plumbing fixtures and
industrial piping systems of the consumer, as required by state and local
plumbing codes, health regulations, OSHA and other applicable industry
standards to assure water system safety; and
   (C)   Administration of backflow prevention. To provide for the
administration of a continuing program of backflow prevention which will
systematically and effectively prevent the contamination or pollution of all
drinking water systems.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)  (Ord. 1999-03, passed 10-21-1999)
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY. Accepted by the state’s Department of Health,
Bureau of Drinking Water/Sanitation, as meeting an applicable specification or
as suitable for the proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the purveyor’s public water supply will be considered as an
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another
purveyor’s public potable water supply or any natural source such as a well,
spring, river, stream, harbor and the like, or “used waters” or “industrial
fluids”. These waters may be contaminated or polluted or they may be
objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water
purveyor does not have authority for sanitary control.
   BACK PRESSURE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
under pressure into the feeding distribution pipes of a potable water supply
system from any source other than the intended source.
   BACK SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source
other than the intended source, caused by the reduction of pressure in the
potable water supply system.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. Specifications for BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES are contained
within the Utah Plumbing Code, Ch. 10, (App. J), and the Cross-Connection
Control Program for Utah.
   CONTAMINATION. A degradation of the quality of the potable water supply by
non-potable water, sewage, industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or
other materials.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures which may allow non-potable water or industrial fluids or other
material of questionable quality to come in contact with potable water inside a
distribution system. This would include any temporary connections, such as
swing connections, removable sections, four-way plug valves, spools, dummy
sections of pipe, swivel or change-over devices or sliding multi-port tubes or
other plumbing arrangements.
   CROSS-CONNECTION, CONTAINMENT. The installation of an approved backflow
assembly at the water service connection to any customer’s premises where it is
physically and economically infeasible to find and permanently eliminate or
control all actual or potential cross-connections within the customer’s water
system; or, it shall mean the installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a portion of a customer’s
water system where there are actual or potential cross-connections which cannot
be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of the cross-connection
(isolation).
   CROSS-CONNECTION, CONTROLLED. A connection between a potable water system
and a non- potable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly
properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the
protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The person designated to be in charge of the Water
Department of the town is vested with the authority and responsibility for the
implementation of an effective cross-connection control program and for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)  (Ord. 1999-03, passed 10-21-1999)
§ 52.03  RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Town.
      (1)   The town shall be responsible for the protection of the public
drinking water distribution system from foreseeable conditions leading to the
possible contamination or pollution of the drinking water system due to the
backflow of contaminants or pollutants into the drinking water supply.
      (2)   Drinking water system surveys/inspections of the consumer’s water
distribution system shall be conducted or caused to be conducted by the
individuals deemed qualified by and representing the town. Survey records shall
indicate compliance with the aforementioned health and safety standards. All
such records will be maintained by the town.
      (3)   The town shall notify in writing all consumers of the need for the
periodic system survey to ensure compliance with existing applicable minimum
health and safety standards.
      (4)   Selection of an approved backflow prevention assembly for
containment control required at the service entrance shall be determined from
the results of the system survey.
   (B)   Consumer. It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to:
      (1)   Comply with this chapter as a term and condition of supply and
consumer’s acceptance of service is admittance of his or her awareness; and
      (2)   Purchase, install, test and maintain any backflow prevention
device/assembly required to comply with this chapter.
   (C)   Plumbing Official.
      (1)   The Plumbing Official’s responsibility to enforce the applicable
sections of the Plumbing Code begins at the point of service (downstream or
consumer side of the meter) and continues throughout the developed length of
the consumer’s water system.
      (2)   The Plumbing Official will review all plans to ensure that
unprotected cross-connections are not an integral part of the consumer’s water
system. If a cross-connection cannot be eliminated, it must be protected by the
installation of an air gap or an approved backflow prevention device/assembly
in accordance with the Utah Plumbing Code.
      (3)   Water vacating the drinking water supply must do so by an approved
air gap or approved mechanical backflow prevention assembly, properly installed
and in accordance with the Utah Plumbing Code.
   (D)   Technician, surveyor or repair person.
      (1)   Whether employed by the consumer or a utility to survey, test,
repair or maintain backflow prevention assemblies, the certified backflow
technicians, surveyors or repair persons will have the following
responsibilities:
         (a)   Ensuring acceptable testing equipment and procedures are used
for testing, repairing or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies;
         (b)   Make reports of such testing and/or repair to the consumer,
water purveyor and the Bureau of Drinking Water/Sanitation on forms approved
for such use by the Bureau of Drinking Water/Sanitation, and within the time
frames prescribed by the Bureau of Drinking Water/Sanitation;
         (c)   The report shall include the list of materials or replacement
parts used;
         (d)   Ensuring replacement parts are equal in quality to parts
originally supplied by the manufacturer of the assembly being repaired;
         (e)   Not changing the design, material or operational characteristics
of the assembly during testing, repair or maintenance;
         (f)   A certified technician shall perform all tests of the mechanical
devices/assemblies and be responsible for the competence and accuracy of all
tests and reports;
         (g)   Ensuring his or her license is current, the testing equipment
being used is acceptable to the state and is in proper operating condition;
         (h)   Be equipped with, and be competent to use, all necessary tools,
gauges and other equipment necessary to properly test and maintain backflow
prevent assemblies; and
         (i)   The certified technician conducting the test must tag each
double check valve, pressure vacuum breaker, reduced pressure backflow assembly
and high hazard air gap, showing the serial number, date tested and by whom.
The technician’s license number must also be on this tag.
      (2)   In the case of a consumer requiring a commercially available
technician, any certified technician is authorized to make the test and report
the results of that test to the consumer, water purveyor and the Bureau of
Drinking Water/Sanitation. If such a commercially tested assembly is in need of
repair, a licensed plumber shall make the actual repair.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)  (Ord. 1999-03, passed 10-21-1999)
§ 52.04  REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Protection of water supply.
      (1)   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the public water purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by state laws, regulations, codes and this chapter. Service of water
to a consumer found to be in violation of this chapter shall be discontinued by
the water purveyor after due process of written notification of violation and
an appropriate time suspension for voluntary compliance, if:
         (a)   A backflow prevention assembly required by this chapter for
control of backflow and cross-connections is not installed, tested and
maintained;
         (b)   If it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been
removed or bypassed;
         (c)   If an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises; or
         (d)   If the periodic system survey has not been conducted.
      (2)   Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
   (B)   Inspection of customer’s system. The customer’s system shall be open
for inspection at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the
public water purveyor to determine whether cross-connections or other
structural or sanitary hazards, including violation of this chapter, exist and
to audit the results of the required survey (§
52.03 of this chapter).
   (C)   Installation of approved prevention assembly. Whenever the public
water purveyor deems a service connection’s water usage contributes a
sufficient hazard to the water supply, an approved backflow prevention assembly
shall be installed on the service line of the identified consumer’s water
system at or near the property line, or immediately inside the building being
served; but, in all cases, before the first branch line leading off the service
line.
   (D)   Type of protective assembly. The type of protective assembly required
under division (C) above shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists at
the point of cross-connection (whether direct or indirect), applicable to local
and state requirements resulting from the required survey.
   (E)   Previously approved assemblies. All presently installed backflow
prevention assemblies which do not meet the requirements of this section, but
were approved assemblies for the purposes described herein at the time of
installation and which have been properly maintained shall, except for the
inspection and maintenance requirements under division (F) below, be excluded
from the requirements of these rules so long as the water purveyor is assured
that they will satisfactorily protect the public water system. Whenever the
existing assembly is moved from the present location, or requires more than
minimum maintenance, or when the water purveyor finds that the operation or
maintenance of this assembly constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be
replaced by an approved backflow prevention assembly meeting the local and
state requirements.
   (F)   Inspection and maintenance requirements. It shall be the
responsibility of the consumer at the premises where backflow prevention
assemblies are installed to have certified surveys/inspections and operational
tests made at least once per year at the consumer’s expense. In those instances
where the public water purveyor deems the hazard to be great, he or she may
require certified surveys/inspections and tests at a more frequent interval. It
shall be the duty of the public water purveyor to see that these tests are made
according to the standards set forth by the state’s Department of Health,
Bureau of Drinking Water/Sanitation.
   (G)   Testing backflow prevention assemblies. All backflow prevention
assemblies shall be tested within ten working days of initial installation.
   (H)   Safety hazards. No backflow prevention assembly shall be installed so
as to create a safety hazard. Example: installed over an electrical panel,
steam pipes, boilers, pits or above ceiling level.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4)  (Ord. 1999-03, passed 10-21-1999)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   If violations of this chapter exist or if there has not been any corrective
action taken by the consumer within ten days of the written notification of
deficiencies noted within the survey, then the public water purveyor shall deny
or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a physical
break in the service line until the customer has corrected the conditions in
conformance with the state and town statutes relating to plumbing, safe
drinking water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5)  (Ord. 1999-03, passed 10-21-1999)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
   
70.01   State Traffic Code adopted
§ 70.01  STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah Traffic Code (UCA Title 41), as amended,
are hereby adopted by the town. Any and all violations thereof shall be
considered violations of this section, and each such violation shall subject
the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this code of ordinances if
proceeded hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
CHAPTER 71:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Off-Highway Vehicles and Operators
   
71.01   License required
   
71.02   Operational regulations and requirements
   
71.03   Designated areas; exceptions
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND OPERATORS
§ 71.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All operators of off-highway vehicles shall be duly licensed to operate such
vehicles in accordance with state laws, rules and regulations, including the
obtaining of a safety certificate issued by the Division of Parks and
Recreation, as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)  (Ord. 1997-01, passed 12-18-1997)
§ 71.02  OPERATIONAL REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Age restrictions. No person who is eight years of age or older, but
under 16 years of age, may operate, and no owner may give that person
permission to operate, an off-highway vehicle on any public land, trail, street
or highway of this state unless the person is operating the vehicle under one
of the following conditions.
      (1)   He or she is under the direct supervision of a certified off-
highway vehicle safety instructor during a scheduled safety training course.
      (2)   He or she has in his or her possession the appropriate safety
certificate issued by the Division.
   (B)   Vehicle registration. No person may operate or transport and no owner
may give permission to operate or transport any off-highway vehicle on any
public land, trail, street or highway in the state unless the off-highway
vehicle has been registered by the state for the current year.
   (C)   Use in designated areas. Off-highway vehicles shall be used and
operated only on or over such public lands, trails, streets, roads or highways
within the town that are designated by this subchapter as open to such vehicle
use. Further, to the full extent possible, off-highway vehicles shall be
operated only on the outer four feet of asphalt paved roadways or of unimproved
gravel or dirt roads within the town limits.
   (D)   Compliance with laws and regulations; speed limit. Off-highway
vehicles shall be operated at all times in accordance with all applicable
state, county and town laws and regulations, and shall not be operated at
speeds in excess of 15 mph on town roadways, and, further, if equipped with a
headlight, shall be operated only with the headlight functioning and turned on.
   (E)   Equipment.
      (1)   An off-highway vehicle operated in the town shall be equipped with:
         (a)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold
the vehicle under normal operating conditions;
         (b)   Headlights and taillights when operated between sunset and
sunrise;
         (c)   Noise control devices; and
         (d)   A safety flag when operated on sand dunes.
      (2)   Anyone under 18 years of age operating an off-highway vehicle on
the streets of the town is required to wear properly fitted, safety rated
headgear.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)  (Ord. 1997-01, passed 12-18-1997)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03  DESIGNATED AREAS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Specified. All roadways within the town, except Main Street (Utah
State Highway 125), are hereby designated as open to off-highway vehicle use in
conformance with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations of town and
the state. A person may not operate an off-highway vehicle on any street or
highway for any other purpose than to gain direct access to or from a private
or public area open for off-highway vehicle use. Off-highway vehicles (except
town-owned maintenance vehicles) shall not be operated on town parks,
cemeteries, ballfields or sidewalks.
   (B)   Map. Attached to the ordinance codified herein, and incorporated by
reference, is a map showing such designated roadways within the town, which
shall be on file in the town office.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3)  (Ord. 1997-01, passed 12-18-1997)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   CEMETERY
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   License and registration
   
90.03   Tag and collar
   
90.04   Running at large
   
90.05   Rabies control
   
90.06   Females in heat
   
90.07   Strays
   
90.08   Nuisance dogs
   
90.09   Vicious dogs
   
90.10   Impounding
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his immediate family, either by leash, cord, chain or
within immediate view of the above mentioned persons.
   DOG. Any male, female or spayed female dog of any age.
   IMPOUNDED. Having been received into the custody of the town pound or into
the custody of any authorized agent or representative of the town.
   OWNER. When applied to the proprietorship of a dog, shall mean any person or
persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or harboring a dog.
   POUND. An animal shelter, lot, premises or building maintained by, or
authorized or employed by, the town for confinement or care of dogs seized
either under the provisions of this chapter or otherwise.
   POUND MASTER. The custodian selected by the Town Council to be responsible
for the operation of the dog pound.
   UNLICENSED DOG. A dog for which the license for the current year has not
been paid, or to which the tag provided for in this chapter is not attached.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that has bitten without provocation or a dog that has a
known propensity to attack or bite.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)  (Ord. 87-02, passed 12-17-1986)
§ 90.02  LICENSE AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or maintain
any dog three or more months old unless such dog has been registered and
licensed in the manner herein provided.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Application for registration and licensing shall be made to the
pound master or such other person as the Town Council may authorize to receive
such applications.
      (2)   The owner shall state at the time application is made for such
license, the owner’s name and address. The owner shall specify the sex, breed
and color of each dog owned or kept by him or her. The license fee shall cover
the calendar day in which the license was issued, expiring on December 31 of
the year of issuance, regardless of the date when issued.
   (C)   Issuance. A dog license shall be issued by the pound master or such
other person as the Town Council may authorize.
   (D)   Fee for license. No dog license shall be issued by the town until the
fee required herein is paid. The amount of the fee shall be in such amount as
established by resolution of the Town Council.
   (E)   Date due; penalty. The fee due and payable pursuant to this section
shall be due July 1 and shall be delinquent after August 1 of each year. A
penalty in such amount as established by resolution of the Town Council shall
be added to delinquent accounts.
   (F)   Newly acquired dog. The owner of any newly acquired dog of licensing
age or of any dog which attains licensing age after April 1 of any year shall
make an application for registration and license within 30 days after such
acquisition or dogs attain the above stated age; provided that, the license fee
shall be reduced to one-half of the above rates for new applications received
after July 1 of any year.
   (G)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Temporary non-residents. The provisions of this section shall not
be intended to apply to dogs whose owners are non-residents temporarily within
the town, nor to dogs brought to the town for the purpose of participating in
any dog show, nor to commercial kennels.
      (2)   Guide dogs. Dogs used as guide dogs for blind persons and commonly
known as seeing-eye dogs shall be licensed and registered as other dogs
hereinabove provided; except that, the owner or keeper of such dog shall not be
required to pay any fee therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)  (Ord. 87-02, passed 12-17-1986)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  TAG AND COLLAR.
   (A)   Issuance. Upon payment of the license fee, the Town Clerk shall issue
to the owner a license certificate and a weather impervious tag for each dog so
licensed. The tag shall be changed every year and shall have stamped thereon
the year for which it was issued and the number corresponding with the number
on the certificate. Every dog owner, except those operating a kennel, shall
provide each dog with a collar to which the license tag shall be affixed, and
shall see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. It shall be unlawful to
deprive a registered dog of its collar and/or tag.
   (B)   Duplicate tag. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate
will be issued by the Town Clerk upon presentation of a receipt showing the
payment of the license fee for the current year and the payment of a fee in
such amount as established by resolution of the Town Council for such
duplicate.
   (C)   Tag not transferrable. Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog
to another, and no refunds shall be made on any dog license fee because of
death of the dog or the owner leaving the town before expiration of the license
period.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3)  (Ord. 87-02, passed 12-17-1986)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For the owner or keeper of any dog to permit such dog to run at
large; and
      (2)   For an owner of a dog to permit such dog to go upon or be upon the
private property of any person without the permission of the owner or person
entitled to the possession of such private property.
   (B)   Violation regardless of precautions. The owner of any dog running at
large shall be deemed in violation of this section, regardless of the
precautions taken to prevent the escape of the dog and to prohibit it from
running at large.
   (C)   Declared nuisance. Any dog running at large in violation of the
provisions of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a menace to
the public health and safety, and the dog shall be taken up and impounded as
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4)  (Ord. 87-02, passed 12-17-1986)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Rabies vaccination required. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dog to suffer, allow or permit such dog to be or go upon any sidewalk, street,
alley, public place within the town without having had such dog vaccinated
every two years against rabies, as provided in division (B) below, and without
there being on such dog a collar or harness with a license tag thereon showing
that such dog has been so vaccinated.
   (B)   Vaccination by licensed veterinarian; exception. Every owner of any
dog over the age of six months within the town shall have the dog vaccinated
against rabies by a duly licensed veterinarian, shall secure from the
veterinarian a certificate thereof, and shall attach to the collar or harness,
which such person is hereby required to place upon the dog, a tag showing that
such vaccination has been done; provided that, the Town Council may, by
resolution, provide that the owners of any dog may themselves purchase serum
and vaccinate their own dogs. The resolution shall also prescribe the
conditions with which the owner must comply to obtain the tag herein required.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5)  (Ord. 87-02, passed 12-17-1986)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  FEMALES IN HEAT.
   The owner of a female dog in heat shall cause such dog to be penned or
enclosed in such a manner as to preclude other dogs from attacking such female
dog or being attracted to such female dog so as to create a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6)  (Ord. 87-02, passed 12-17-1986)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07  STRAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep within the town any
lost or stray dog. Whenever any dog shall be found which appears to be lost or
stray, it shall be the duty of the finder to notify the Town Treasurer or any
Town Council member. The dog shall be impounded for running at large contrary
to the terms of this chapter. If there shall be attached to such dog a license
tag for the then current year, the pound master shall notify the person to whom
such license was issued, at the address given on the license application.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7)  (Ord. 87-02, passed 12-17-1986)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  NUISANCE DOGS.
   No person, persons, firm or corporation shall own, keep or harbor any dog
which by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling, yelping or by noxious or
offensive odors shall annoy, disturb or endanger the health and welfare of any
person or neighborhood. This section shall not apply to the town dog pound,
veterinary hospitals or medical laboratories.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8)  (Ord. 87-02, passed 12-17-1986)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Unlawful to own and possess. It shall be unlawful for any person to
own and possess a vicious dog within the town. Whenever a prosecution for this
offense is commenced under this section, the dog so involved may not be
redeemed, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, while awaiting final
decision of the court as to the disposition to be made of such dog.
   (B)   Disposition after conviction of offense. Upon the trial of any offense
under this section, the court may, upon conviction and in addition to the usual
judgment of conviction, order the pound master or other authorized personnel of
the town to put the dog to death or may order such other disposition of the dog
as will protect the inhabitants of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9)  (Ord. 87-02, passed 12-17-1986)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10  IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Dog pound. The Town Council may contract with some humane person as
pound master, with an adjoining municipality or with the county for the purpose
of providing suitable premises and facilities to be used by the town as the dog
pound. It shall be maintained in some convenient location and shall be sanitary
and so operated as to properly feed, water and protect the dogs from injury.
   (B)   Duty of official to impound. It shall be the duty of every designated
official to apprehend any dog found running at large, not wearing his or her
tag, or which is in violation of this chapter and to impound such dog in the
pound or other suitable place. The pound master, or some other designated
official, upon receiving any dog, shall make a complete registry, entering the
breed, color and mix of such dog and whether licensed. If licensed, he or she
shall enter the name and address of the owner and number of the license.
   (C)   Interference with impounding prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct the pound master, his or
her assistant or any designated official of the town, while engaging in
capturing, securing or taking to the dog pound any dog or dogs liable to be
impounded, or to break open or in any manner directly or indirectly aid,
counsel or advise the breaking open of any dog pound or ambulance, wagon or
other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs to the dog pound.
   (D)   Records maintained by Animal Control Officer. The pound master shall
keep a record of each animal impounded by him or her, the date of receipt of
such animal, the date and manner of its disposal and, if redeemed, reclaimed or
purchased, the name and address of such person, the amounts of all fees
received or collected for or because of the impounding, reclaiming or
purchasing thereof, together with the number of any tag and the date of any tag
exhibited or issued upon the redemption or sale of such animal.
   (E)   Redemption of impounded dogs. Any dog impounded as a licensed or
unlicensed dog may be redeemed and taken from such pound by the owner or any
authorized person, upon exhibiting to the pound master or person having charge
of said pound, a certificate of registry as provided in division (B) above,
showing that the license imposed by this chapter has been paid for such dog and
upon paying the person in charge of the pound an impounding fee in such amount
as established by resolution of the Town Council. All impounded dogs not
redeemed within five days shall be sold for the best price obtainable at either
private or public sale, and all monies received from such sales shall be paid
daily to the Town Treasurer. All dogs that are not sold or redeemed in the
required time shall be disposed of in a humane manner. Under no circumstances
will any dog be boarded in impound for more than five days. The Town Council
may, by resolution, adjust the charges for impounding dogs as costs warrant.
   (F)   Disposition of unclaimed or infected dogs. All impounded dogs not
redeemed within five days of the date of impounding may be destroyed or sold to
the person first making written request for purchase at such price as may be
deemed agreeable. In the case of dogs severely injured or having contagious
disease other than rabies and which, in the pound master’s judgment, are
suffering and recovery is doubtful, the pound master may destroy the dog
without awaiting the five-day period.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-10)  (Ord. 87-02, passed 12-17-1986)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   A violation of §
90.08 of this chapter shall be a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and such is hereby declared to be a nuisance,
and each day a violation is permitted to exist or continue shall be considered
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8)  (Ord. 87-02, passed 12-17-1986)
CHAPTER 91:  CEMETERY
Section
   
91.01   Cemetery name
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Scope of chapter
   
91.04   Cemetery Superintendent
   
91.05   Burials
   
91.06   Fees and charges
   
91.07   Lot sales
   
91.08   Rules and regulations
   
91.09   Unlawful acts
   
91.10   Placement of markers
   
91.11   Perpetual care
§ 91.01  CEMETERY NAME.
   The burial ground of the town is hereby called and shall be known by the
name of “Oak City Cemetery”.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOT. The partial lots or single graves in the town cemetery.
   LOT OWNER OR PURCHASER and GRAVE OWNER OR PURCHASER. The owner or purchaser
of burial privileges or the collateral right of use of any burial lot evidenced
by a deed or burial right for a described lot or by proved and recognized
descent or devise from the original owner.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2)
§ 91.03  SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   Any cemetery owned and/or maintained by the town shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3)
§ 91.04  CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby created the position of Cemetery
Superintendent.
   (B)   Duties. The Cemetery Superintendent shall have the general supervision
and administration for the maintenance and perpetual care of the town cemetery,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Recommending to the town such additional rules and regulations as
may be necessary for the operation, maintenance, use and protection of the
cemetery;
      (2)   Perform those duties required by the law and this chapter;
      (3)   Subdividing the cemetery into lots and grave sites;
      (4)   Maintaining a record of information and the location of the graves
through the cemetery mapping computer program and preventing any lot from being
used beyond its capacity;
      (5)   Keeping in proper repair the enclosure around the cemetery and
preventing its being entered by animals and, so far as practical, preventing
the destruction or defacing of any tablet or marker placed or erected therein;
      (6)   Keeping a duplicate plat of the cemetery and, at the request of any
person wishing to purchase any of the lots or parts of lots, pointing out any
of the lots or parts of lots for sale;
      (7)   Dig or cause to be dug and close or cause to have closed all graves
in the cemetery;
      (8)   Mowing of all lots and graves at reasonable intervals and sodding
of the surface of the graves to lot level;
      (9)   Removing dead flowers and trimming trees and shrubbery when needed;
      (10)   Raking and cleaning the lots and straightening of tilting stones
or markers (this does not include repairing damaged stones, markers or
memorials not damaged by the town);
      (11)   Supervise every interment and shall cover and neatly trim the
grave immediately after the coffin is placed in the grave;
      (12)   Fill and trim all graves that have settled or may hereafter
settle;
      (13)   Remove floral pieces or displays left on the grave as he or she
deems it necessary for the appearance of the cemetery, but such floral pieces
or displays shall not be removed sooner than five days after original
placement, except in case of an emergency;
      (14)   Keep the streets, alleys, walks and avenues in the cemetery in
good order and unobstructed so that every access can be had to any lot;
      (15)   Shall inform the owner of any lot or relatives of deceased persons
buried in any lot of the requirement to place or to cause to be placed a
suitable marker with the name of the deceased plainly inscribed thereon upon
the grave of every person interred therein within 60 days of interment; and
      (16)   Perform such other duties that the Town Council shall direct.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4)
§ 91.05  BURIALS.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disinter any body buried in
said cemetery, except under direction of the Cemetery Superintendent or order
of a court of competent jurisdiction. The Cemetery Superintendent shall not
order any grave opened unless:
         (a)   A permit from the county’s Health Officer has been issued; or
         (b)   A written order from the owner of the lot authorizing such
removal has been filed with the town. All such removals shall be recorded in a
book kept for such purposes.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disinter the body of a
person whose death was caused by a contagious disease unless two years has past
since his or her burial. This division (A)(2) shall not apply to bodies buried
in hermetically sealed coffins.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to inter anything other than human remains in
the town cemetery.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to inter a human body in a location that is
not a legal cemetery, whether a private cemetery or cemetery of the town,
unless by special permission of the Town Council under such rules and
regulations that it may apply.
   (B)   Indigents. The Cemetery Superintendent may designate a portion of the
cemetery to the burial of indigents. The Mayor shall have authority to
determine indigence for the purposes of burial in the cemetery. The Mayor shall
have the duty to disclose to the Town Council all deceased persons declared
indigent for the purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   Vaults for caskets required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be buried in the cemetery
unless the casket shall be placed in a vault made of concrete, steel or brick
that covers the casket on all six sides.
      (2)   No wood shall be used as a permanent part of the construction of
any part of the vault.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06  FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The Town Council is hereby empowered to regulate by resolution the
selling price and size of the lots and the amount to be paid therefor. The
Cemetery Superintendent shall deliver to each purchaser a certificate for each
lot or part of lot showing the description thereof by block, lot and plot, and
stating the purchase price. Any purchase price shall include all perpetual care
and maintenance.
   (B)   All fees pertaining to the cemetery shall be set by the Town Council
through resolution or policy and may be amended as deemed necessary by the Town
Council. The consolidated fee schedule is on file in the town office.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6)
§ 91.07  LOT SALES.
   (A)   Purchase of a cemetery lot conveys burial rights, not real property
ownership. The town retains ownership and purchasers are subject to all
ordinances and policies which govern the cemetery. The purchase price includes
the burial right and a one-time perpetual care fee for upkeep and maintenance.
   (B)   The Cemetery Superintendent is hereby empowered to sell lots in the
cemetery and to collect all sums arising from said sales. All money so
collected shall be remitted promptly to the Town Treasurer.
   (C)   The certificates shall be issued and signed by the Cemetery
Superintendent. All lots or parts of lots, together with all improvements,
shall be exempt from taxation.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to sell any grave lot in a town-owned cemetery to
any entity other than the town. The town shall repurchase any grave lot that
does not contain a deceased person. The repurchase price shall be the price
originally paid for the lot or the current price, whichever is lower.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authority to regulate; procedure; right of entry.
      (1)   The Town Council shall have the authority to set rules and
regulations regarding cemetery fees and other details regarding cemetery
maintenance and operations through this chapter, which may be amended as
necessary for the efficient and safe operation and maintenance of the cemetery.
      (2)   The town reserves the right to enter upon any grave and to perform
all work necessary for the care and upkeep of all lots and graves in said
cemetery.
      (3)   Any changes in the rules and regulations shall be adopted by the
Town Council before such changes shall be official.
      (4)   Every lot or single grave sold is subject to all rules and
regulations that the Town Council may adopt through ordinance or policy and may
be amended as necessary for the protection of lot owners and the remains of the
dead.
   (B)   Traffic ordinances. It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle
within the boundaries of the cemetery unless authorized by the Cemetery
Superintendent.
   (C)   Animals prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any dog or other animal,
except dogs used by the blind, to enter upon cemetery property. Any animal
found on cemetery property may be removed by the pound master.
   (D)   Decorum. Cemetery grounds are sacredly devoted to the interment and
repose of the dead. Strict observance of decorum due such a place shall be
required of all persons.
   (E)   Errors in opening graves. Under no circumstances will the town assume
responsibilities for errors in opening graves when orders are given by
telephone.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Injury to cemetery property. It is a Class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, for any person to injure, deface, break,
remove or otherwise damage any headstones, tombstones, monuments, trees,
shrubs, flowers or any other property situated within the cemetery boundary.
   (B)   Theft of property. It shall be unlawful to remove or cause to be
removed, or to damage or cause to be damaged, any flowers, shrubs, trees or any
other property from the grave site of another. Violators of this division (B)
shall be punished in conformity with the Utah Code Annotated sections that
pertain to theft of property.
   (C)   Private additions to cemetery grounds.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any fence,
corner post, coping, hedge or boundary of any kind upon any lot or lots,
street, alley or walk in the cemetery or grade the ground thereof. The Cemetery
Superintendent shall, whenever required, furnish the true lines of any lots
according to official survey, and shall prevent and prohibit any boundary
marking by private individuals of lots.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant flowers, shrubs,
trees, lawns and the like upon any lot or lots in the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-9)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.10  PLACEMENT OF MARKERS.
   (A)   Compliance required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or place or cause to
be placed any marker in the cemetery in violation of the rules and regulations
as set forth by the Town Council regarding the placement, construction and
design of all such markers.
      (2)   No marker shall be set in the cemetery without first notifying the
Cemetery Superintendent.
   (B)   Monument size.
      (1)   No monument or headstone shall exceed 24 inches in height and 36
inches in length for a single grave site.
      (2)   No monument or headstone shall exceed 24 inches in height and five
feet in length for a double grave site.
      (3)   Monuments for more than a double grave site must have approval from
the Town Council.
   (C)   Mowing strip. There will be a six-inch mowing strip around the base of
the monument or headstone.
   (D)   Prohibited dates of placement. No monument or headstone shall be
delivered or laid in place between October 1 and March 31 of any year without
prior approval of the Cemetery Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.11  PERPETUAL CARE.
   (A)   Fund created. There is hereby created a Perpetual Care Fund for the
care of the cemetery pursuant to the laws of the state.
   (B)   Perpetual care moneys.
      (1)   All funds received from the sale of lots and from the sale of
perpetual care services shall not be used for general municipal expenses. The
funds shall be placed in a special Perpetual Care Fund according to the laws of
the state.
      (2)   The income from the Perpetual Care Fund shall be used to pay for
the upkeep and development of the cemetery. The town shall have the authority
to borrow from the fund from time to time, but any funds borrowed shall be
repaid to the fund with interest thereon at a rate equal to the average prime
interest rate of the bank or banks located near the town. If the town borrows
from the fund, it shall pay into the fund for the operation of the cemetery an
amount equal to the interest that the principal amount of the fund would have
earned had the town not borrowed money from it. This shall be done at least
annually.
      (3)   In the event that the interest earned from the perpetual care fund
exceeds the amount needed for upkeep and development, any surplus interest
income shall be added to the principal amount of the Perpetual Care Fund.
   (C)   Duties of Treasurer. It shall be the duty of the Town Treasurer to
keep an accurate record of the Perpetual Care Trust Fund Account, including
investments, and to see that the principal portion thereof is properly invested
in accordance with resolutions of the Town Council and to advise the Mayor when
funds are available for investment in the amount of $1,000 or more. The Mayor
shall advise the Town Council of such availability of funds.
   (D)   Investment income. Income from investments held in the Perpetual Care
Fund may be credited to the Cemetery Maintenance Fund for the use in providing
the perpetual care or credited back to the investment fund.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-11)
CHAPTER 92:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Declaration of nuisance
   
92.03   Toilet or sewer facilities
   
92.04   Blocking water
   
92.05   Nuisances on property
   
92.06   Abatement procedure
   
92.07   State statute provisions applicable
Weeds
   
92.20   Definition
   
92.21   Standard of weed control
Litter; Handbills
   
92.35   Definitions
   
92.36   Handbills and posters; restricted activity
   
92.37   Litter regulations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
NUISANCES
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHOR. Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the outgrowth of the
usual, natural or necessary use of the property, the landlord or his or her
agent, the tenant or his or her agent, and all other persons having control of
the property on which such nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors
thereof and shall be equally liable and responsible. Where any such nuisance
shall arise from the unusual or unnecessary use of such property or from the
business thereon conducted, then the occupants and all other persons
contributing to the continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed the AUTHORS.
   NUISANCE. Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders
soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome is declared to be a nuisance and
unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person either as an owner, agent or
occupant to create or aid in creating or contributing to or maintaining a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Statement. Every act or condition made, permitted, allowed or
continued in violation of §
92.01 of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated
and punished as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Specified. Nuisances include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Befouling water. Befouling water in any spring, stream, well or
water source supplying water for culinary purposes;
      (2)   Privies, cesspools. Allowing any privy vault or cesspool, or other
individual wastewater disposal system, to become a menace to health or a source
of odors or contamination to air or water;
      (3)   Garbage containers, offensive. Permitting any garbage container to
remain on premises when it has become unclean and offensive;
      (4)   Garbage accumulation. Allowing vegetable waste, garbage, litter,
filth or refuse of any nature to accumulate within or upon any private alley,
yard or area, except when it is temporarily deposited for immediate removal;
      (5)   Manure accumulation. Permitting the accumulation of manure in any
stable, stall, corral, feed yard, yard or in any other building or area in
which any animals are kept;
      (6)   Slaughterhouses, feed yards. Permitting any slaughterhouse, market,
meat shop, stable, feed yard or other place or building wherein any animals are
slaughtered, kept, fed or sold to remain unclean or in any state or condition
detrimental to health or creating a nuisance because of odors, or in which
flies or rodents breed;
      (7)   Discharging offensive water or liquid waste. Discharging or placing
any offensive water, chemical spray, liquid waste or refuse of any kind into
any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural watercourse, ditch,
canal or any vacant lot or which, as the result of continued discharge, will
render the place of discharge offensive or likely to become so;
      (8)   Collecting grease, offensive matter. Keeping or collecting any
stale or putrid grease or other offensive matter;
      (9)   Flies and mosquitos. Having or permitting upon any premises any
fly- or mosquito- producing condition;
      (10)   Public drinking vessels. Keeping any drinking vessel for public
use without providing a method of decontamination between uses;
      (11)   Ablutions near drinking fountain. Permitting or performing any
ablutions in or near any public drinking fountain;
      (12)   Boarding house or factory, sanitary condition. Failing to furnish
any dwelling house, boarding house or factory or other place of employment with
such privy vaults, water closets, sinks or other facilities as may be required
to maintain the same in sanitary condition;
      (13)   Discontinue use of privy vaults. Neglecting or refusing to
discontinue use of, clean out, disinfect and fill up all privy vaults and
cesspools or other individual wastewater disposal systems within 20 days after
notice from an enforcement officer or official of the town;
      (14)   Stagnant water; offensive substances. Permitting any lot or
excavation to become the repository of stagnant water or any decaying or
offensive substances; and
      (15)   Obstructing public ways, watercourses, parks. Obstructing or
tending to obstruct or interfere with or render dangerous for passage any
street or sidewalks, lake, stream, drainage, canal or basin or any public park
without first obtaining the written permission of the Town Council.
   (C)   No limitation. The types of nuisances above stated shall be deemed in
addition to and in no way a limitation of the nuisances subject to this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  TOILET OR SEWER FACILITIES.
   All toilet or sewer facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with state law and town ordinances. All such facilities that do not
comply with such provisions are hereby declared to be a nuisance and are
subject to abatement as herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  BLOCKING WATER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any drainage system,
canal, ditch, conduit or other watercourse of any kind or nature, natural or
artificial, to become so obstructed as to cause the water to back up and
overflow therefrom, or to become unsanitary.
   (B)   Maintenance of any such watercourse in such condition shall constitute
a nuisance and the same shall be subject to abatement.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  NUISANCES ON PROPERTY.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in any manner causing substantial diminution in the
value of the other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are
located.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Nuisance Inspector.
      (1)   Established. The Mayor or a Council member shall act as nuisance
inspector to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Duties. The Nuisance Inspector is authorized to:
         (a)   Perform all functions necessary to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter; and
         (b)   Inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as needed, all
buildings, structures, lots or places for the purpose of determining whether
such are in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Existence of objectionable condition. If he or she concludes there
exists an objectionable condition in violation of this subchapter, the Nuisance
Inspector shall:
         (a)   Ascertain the names of the owner and occupant and descriptions
of the premises where such objects and conditions constituting a nuisance
exist;
         (b)   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such
premises, either personally or by mailing notice prepaid, addressed to the
owner and occupant at his or her last known post office addresses as disclosed
by the records of the County Assessor, or as otherwise ascertained, requiring
such owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy
and remove the nuisance within such time as the Nuisance Inspector may
designate; provided that, any person notified pursuant to this division (A)(3)
(b) shall be given at least ten, but not more than 20 days, as determined by
the Nuisance Inspector following the date of service of such notice, to correct
the objectionable condition. The notice shall:
            1.   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation
and generally describe the premises on which the violation exists;
            2.   Inform the owner, occupant or other person that, in the event
he or she disagrees with the determination of the Nuisance Inspector and does
not wish to comply with the provisions of the notice or that he or she objects
to the factual or legal basis for the notice, he or she may request in writing
a hearing before the Town Council at a time and place to be set by the Town
Council. A written application for a hearing shall state the time within which
the person must conform to the provisions of the notice; and
            3.   Inform the person that in the event he or she fails or
neglects to correct the objectionable condition, the town will correct the
objectionable condition and will collect the costs of so correcting the
objectionable condition by either a court action, in which case he or she will
be assessed such costs, together with reasonable attorney fees and court costs,
or will charge the cost of correcting the violation against the property as a
tax.
         (c)   In the event the owner or occupant makes such request for a
hearing, the Town Council shall set the time and place for hearing objections
and the Town Clerk shall notify the owner, occupant or other persons, in
writing, of the time and place at which he, she or they may appear and be
heard. The hearing shall be heard within less than five days from the date of
service or mailing of the notice of hearing.
   (B)   Hearing.
      (1)   Informal hearing; written decision. At the written request of an
owner, occupant or other person having an interest in property which is the
subject of a notice to remove or abate weeds, objectionable conditions or
objects from the property, the Town Council shall conduct an informal hearing
(which need not be reported), wherein such persons may present such evidence
and argument as is pertinent to the question of whether or not the removal or
abatement of the objects or conditions is properly within the purview of this
subchapter. The Town Council shall also permit the presentation of evidence and
argument by the Nuisance Inspector and other interested parties. Thereafter,
within not less than five, nor more than ten, days, the Town Council shall,
over the signature of the Mayor, or such other member of the Town Council as it
may designate, render its written decision, a copy of which shall be mailed to
or served upon the owner or any other person to whom the original notice was
given by the Nuisance Inspector.
      (2)   Notice of decision; abatement by owner or occupant. In the event
the decision of the Town Council upholds the determination of the Nuisance
Inspector, the notice originally given by the Nuisance Inspector as above
provided shall be deemed to be sufficient to require the owner or occupant to
remove or abate the objectionable objects or conditions, and he or she shall
have up to ten days from the date of notice of the decision within which to
conform thereto, unless additional time, not to exceed 30 days, is authorized
by the Nuisance Inspector.
      (3)   Time period for compliance. In the event that the decision of the
Town Council either overrules or modifies the determination of the Nuisance
Inspector, the written decision of the Town Council shall apprise the owner or
occupant of that fact and set forth the details and extent to which the owner
or occupant must make removal or other abatement of the objectionable objects
or conditions, if any. The owner or occupant shall be required to conform to
the decision of the Town Council within ten days after service or mailing of a
copy of the decision, and the decision shall be deemed to be the modified
decision of the Nuisance Inspector, unless additional time is authorized by the
Town Council.
      (4)   Filing of amended notice. The Nuisance Inspector shall file an
amended notice and proof of service of notice and file the same in the office
of the County Treasurer.
   (C)   Failure to comply; abatement by town. If any owner, occupant or other
person having an interest in land described in such notice of decision to whom
the notice was given shall fail or neglect to conform to the requirements
thereof relating to the eradication, destruction or removal of such weeds,
garbage, refuse, objects or structures, the Nuisance Inspector shall employ all
necessary assistance to cause such objectionable objects or conditions to be
removed or destroyed at the expense of the town.
   (D)   Itemized statement. The nuisance inspector shall prepare an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of nuisances,
and shall mail a copy thereof to the owner or occupant, or both, or to persons
having an interest in the property, demanding payment within 20 days of the
date of mailing. The notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered
mail, addressed to the last known address of the property owner, occupant or
persons having an interest in the property.
   (E)   Failure to make payment. In the event the owner, occupant or person
having an interest in the property fails to make payment of the amount set
forth in the statement to the Town Treasurer within the 20 days, the Nuisance
Inspector may either cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law or
may refer the matter to the County Treasurer as provided in this subchapter.
   (F)   Collection.
      (1)   Lawsuit. In the event collection of expenses of destruction and
removal are pursued through the courts, the town shall sue and receive judgment
for all of said expenses of destruction and removal, together with reasonable
attorney fees, interest and court costs, and shall execute upon such judgment
in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Taxes. In the event that the Nuisance Inspector elects to refer the
expenses of destruction or removal to the County Treasurer for inclusion in the
tax notice of the property owner, he or she shall make in triplicate an
itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the destruction and removal of
the same, and shall deliver three copies of the statement to the County
Treasurer within ten days after the completion of the work of destroying or
removing such weeds, refuse, garbage, objects or structures. Thereupon, the
costs of the work shall be pursued by the County Treasurer in accordance with
the provisions of UCA § 10-11-4, as amended, and the recalcitrant owner shall
have such rights and shall be subject to such powers as are thereby granted.
   (G)   Criminal proceedings.
      (1)   The commencement of criminal proceedings for the purpose of
imposing penalties for violations of this subchapter shall not be conditioned
upon prior issuance of a notice or the granting to the defendant an opportunity
to abate or remove the nuisance.
      (2)   The provisions of this subchapter relating to notice and abatement
shall be deemed merely alternative and additional methods of securing
conformity to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6)
§ 92.07  STATE STATUTE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE.
   The city hereby adopts by reference the provisions of UCA §§ 10-11-1 et
seq., with regard to the abatement of weeds, garbage, refuse and unsightly
objects.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7)  (Ord. 1995-03, passed 5-30-1995)
WEEDS
§ 92.20  DEFINITION.
   WEEDS shall include any vegetation commonly referred to as a weed or which
shall have been designated a noxious weed by the state’s Commissioner of
Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 92.21  STANDARD OF WEED CONTROL.
   (A)   Conditions constituting nuisance. It is hereby declared that the above
stated weeds constitute a nuisance when they create a fire hazard, a source of
contamination or pollution of the water, air or property, a danger to health, a
breeding place or habitation for insects or rodents or other forms of life
deleterious to humans or are unsightly or deleterious to their surroundings.
   (B)   Removal. The cut weeds shall be removed from the premises within 96
hours after cutting.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)  Penalty, see §
92.99
LITTER; HANDBILLS
§ 92.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE. A public or private litter storage and collection
receptacle.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest in sales thereof;
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. However, the terms of this
clause shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is
taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided that, nothing contained
in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place
of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without
a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of the state, or
under any ordinance of the town; or
      (4)   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising
matter is predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distribution.
   GARBAGE. Waste from the preparation, cooking or consumption of food,
condemned food products and all refuse and waste from the handling, storage,
preparation and sate of produce. GARBAGE originates primarily in kitchens,
stores, markets, restaurants, hotels and other places where food is handled,
stored, sold, cooked and consumed.
   LITTER. “Garbage”, “refuse” and “rubbish”, as defined herein, and all other
waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety, welfare or appearance of the town.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general or local circulation or any periodical
or current magazine regularly published with not less than four issues per year
and sold to the public.
   NON-COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper,
booklet or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any
matter of literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial
handbill or newspaper.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the town, owned or used by the town.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and solid
market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
non-combustible waste, such as paper, wrapping, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively on
stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
§ 92.36  HANDBILLS AND POSTERS; RESTRICTED ACTIVITY.
   No person or business shall post, stick, stamp, paint or otherwise fix, or
cause the same to be done by any person, any notice, placard, bill, card,
poster, advertisement or other paper or device calculated to attract the
attention of the public, upon any sidewalk, curb or any other portion or part
of any public way or public place or any lamppost, electric light, telegraph,
telephone or railway structure, hydrant, shade tree or tree box, or upon the
columns, trusses, girders, railings, gates or other parts of any bridge or
other public structure or building, or upon any pole, box or fixture of the
fire alarm or police telegraph system, except such as may be authorized or
required by the laws of the United States or state, and the ordinances of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37  LITTER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Public places. No person shall throw or deposit litter in or on any
street, sidewalk or other public place, except:
      (1)   In authorized receptacles for collection or in official town
garbage dumps; or
      (2)   For collection as authorized by the Town Council.
   (B)   Placement in receptacles. Persons placing litter in authorized
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk or other public place or on
private property.
   (C)   Sweeping into gutters prohibited. No person shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place the accumulation of litter
from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway,
except as authorized by the Town Council. Persons owning or occupying property
shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
   (D)   Merchants’ duty to keep sidewalks clear. No person owning or occupying
a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any
public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of
business shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter.
   (E)   Thrown by person in vehicle. No person, while a driver or passenger in
a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter on any street or other public place,
or on private property.
   (F)   Truck loads causing litter. No person shall drive or move any truck or
other vehicle unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any
load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited on any street, alley or
other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck,
the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or
other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of
any kind.
   (G)   Parks. No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park, except in
authorized receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements on any part of the park or on
any street or other public place. Where authorized receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein.
   (H)   Lakes and fountains. No person shall throw or deposit litter in any
fountain, pond, lake, stream or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere
within the town.
   (I)   Occupied private property. No person shall throw or deposit litter on
any occupied private property, whether owned by such person or not; except
that, the owner or person in control of private property may maintain
authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on any private property.
   (J)   Vacant lots. No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or
vacant private property, whether or not owned by such person.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Class C misdemeanor. Any owner, occupant or person having an
interest in property subject to §§
92.01 through
92.07 of this chapter who shall fail to comply with the notice or order given
pursuant to §§
92.01 through
92.07 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances for each offense.
      (2)   Criminal proceedings. Compliance by any owner, occupant or person
to whom a notice has been given subsequent to the commencement of criminal
proceedings as provided in §§
92.01 through
92.07 of this chapter shall not be admissible in any criminal proceeding
brought pursuant to this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 4-2-8)
   (C)   It shall be an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, for any person owning or occupying real
property to allow weeds to grow higher on such property than is permitted by §
92.21 of this chapter or not to remove from such property any cuttings of such
weeds or any refuse, unsightly or deleterious objects after having been given
notice as provided in §
92.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES AND FEES
      
111.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND OTHER MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110:  LICENSES AND FEES
Section
   
110.01   Fee schedule
§ 110.01  FEE SCHEDULE.
   There is hereby imposed and levied a fee in such amount, as established by
resolution of the Town Council, on the business, location, trade, calling or
profession of every person engaged in a business within the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
CHAPTER 111:  SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND OTHER MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   License application
   
111.04   Fees
   
111.05   License requirements
   
111.06   Notice of revocation
   
111.07   Revocation after hearing
   
111.08   Appeal
   
111.09   Additional requirements
   
111.10   Exceptions
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual whether or not a resident of the
town, traveling either by foot, wagon, motor vehicle or other type of
conveyance from place to place, from house to house or from street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or
for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such
individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such
sale, or whether he or she is collecting advance payments on such sales;
provided that, such definition shall include any person who, for himself or
herself, or for another person, firm or corporation, hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, hotel or motel room,
lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the town for the sole
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether or not a resident of the town traveling by
foot, wagon, motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling
from place to place, shall see or offer the same for sale from a wagon, motor
vehicle, railroad car or other vehicle or conveyance; and, further provided
that, one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to
purchasers as part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a PEDDLER subject to the provisions of this chapter.
The word PEDDLER shall include the words HAWKER and HUCKSTER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person, firm
or corporation, whether as owner, agent, cosignee or employee, whether or not a
resident of the town, who engages in a temporary business of selling and
delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the town, and who in furtherance
of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, public room in any hotel, motel, lodging house,
apartment, shop or any street, alley or other place within the town, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction. The person, firm or corporation so engaged shall not be
relieved from complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of
associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer,
or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or
in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for:
   (A)   Transient merchant, itinerant merchant or vendor. A transient
merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor to engage in such business
without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter;
   (B)   Peddler. Any person to engage in the business of peddler without first
obtaining a license therefor as provided in this chapter; and/or
   (C)   Solicitor or canvasser. Any solicitor or canvasser to engage in such
business without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03  LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Required; contents. Applicants for licenses under this chapter shall
file a sworn application in writing signed by the applicant if an individual,
by all partners if a partnership, and by the president if a corporation, or by
an agent, including a state or regional agent, with the Town Clerk, which shall
give the following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and if the applicant is an employee or
agent of a corporation, the name of the corporation;
      (2)   The address of the applicant and if the applicant is an agent or
employee of a corporation, the address of the corporation;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold and from whom or where the applicant obtains the goods to be sold;
      (4)   If the applicant is employed by or an agent of another person, the
name and permanent address of such other person;
      (5)   The length of time for which the applicant desires to engage in
business within the town;
      (6)   The places within the town where the applicant proposes to carry on
his or her business; and
      (7)   If the applicant is employed by another person documents showing
that the person for whom the applicant proposes to do business is authorized to
do business within the state.
   (B)   Fee. At the time of filing the application, an application fee in such
amount as established by resolution of the Town Council is required.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3)
§ 111.04  FEES.
   (A)   Established. The license fee which shall be charged by the Town
Treasurer for any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be in such
amount as established by resolution of the Town Council.
   (B)   Interstate commerce. None of the license fees provided for by this
chapter shall be applied as to occasion an undue burden upon interstate
commerce. In any case, where a license fee is believed by the licensee or
applicant for license to place an undue burden upon interstate commerce, he or
she may apply to the Mayor for an adjustment of the fee so that it shall not be
discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair to interstate commerce. Such application
may be made before, at or within six months after payment of the prescribed
license fee.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4)
§ 111.05  LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Exhibit license. Any person licensed pursuant to this chapter shall
exhibit such license at the request of any citizen of the town.
   (B)   Produce license upon request. It shall be the duty of any law
enforcement official or town council member to require any person seen
soliciting, canvassing or peddling, and who is not known by such officer to be
duly licensed, to produce his or her license and to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   Expiration of license. All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter
shall expire on the date specified on the license.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06  NOTICE OF REVOCATION.
   Notice of the  hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
at his or her last known address or at the address shown on his or her
application. The hearing and notice shall, in all other aspects, substantially
comply with §
10.99(C) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6)
§ 111.07  REVOCATION AFTER HEARING.
   Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the town’s law
enforcement agency or the Town Clerk, after notice and hearing, for any of the
following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or a false statement contained in the
application for the license;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his or her business as solicitor, canvasser, peddler or itinerant
merchant;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; and/
or
   (E)   Conducting the business of a solicitor, canvasser, peddler or
itinerant merchant in an unlawful manner as to constitute a breach of the peace
or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the
public.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7)
§ 111.08  APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the town’s law enforcement agency or
the Town Clerk in the denial of a license issued pursuant to this chapter, or
by the action of the Town Council, may file an appeal. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council within 14 days after notice of the action
complained of has been mailed to such person’s last known address or address on
the business application, a written statement setting forth fully the grounds
for the appeal. A time and place for the hearing on such appeal and notice of
such hearing shall be set and given to the applicant in the same manner as
provided in §
111.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-8)
§ 111.09  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   This chapter shall not be construed so as to waive the provisions and
requirements of any other ordinance of the town and the requirements and fees
required herein shall be in addition to any other requirements and fees of any
other ordinance of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-9)
§ 111.10  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any individual who is, at
the time he or she is engaged in any activity which would otherwise require
licensing by this chapter, engaged in an activity which is authorized by any
church or charity which has a permanent structure located within the state;
provided, such church or charity has had such permanent structure for at least
six months prior to the date when the individual engaged in the activity which
would otherwise require licensing by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-10)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Criminal Code adopted by reference
   
130.02   Discharging firearms
Curfew for Minors
   
130.15   Purpose
   
130.16   Hours established; exceptions
   
130.17   Parental liability
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01  CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah Criminal Code (UCA Title 76), as amended,
are hereby adopted by the town. Any and all violations thereof shall be
considered violations of this section, and each such violation shall subject
the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this section if proceeded
hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
§ 130.02  DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any kind of firearm from an
automobile or other vehicle or to discharge a firearm from upon or across any
highway. It shall also be unlawful for any person to discharge any rifle, gun
or pistol within the limits of the town, except within an approved facility and
except in self-defense; or, in the case of any peace officer or animal control
officer, in the discharge of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)  Penalty, see §
130.99
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.15  PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is designed to curtail vandalism and other incidents
detrimental to the well-being and safety of citizens of the town by prohibiting
juveniles from remaining idly and purposelessly on the public streets late at
night.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)  (Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-21-1999)
§ 130.16  HOURS ESTABLISHED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Established.
      (1)   Sunday through Thursday, it shall be unlawful for any minor under
the age of 18 years to remain or loiter upon any of the sidewalks, streets,
alleys, parks or other public places in the town between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day.
      (2)   Friday and Saturday, it shall be unlawful for any minor under the
age of 18 years to remain or loiter upon any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys,
parks or other public places in the town between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:
00 a.m. the following day.
   (B)   Exceptions. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any
circumstances in which the minor is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other responsible adult having
care and custody of such minor;
      (2)   Engaged in a legitimate trade, employment or occupation which
requires the minor’s presence in or on the sidewalks, streets, alleys, parks or
other public places while working or traveling to or from such employment;
      (3)   Engaged in an errand directed by the minor’s parent, guardian or
other responsible person having care and custody;
      (4)   In a motor vehicle engaged in normal travel beginning in, traveling
through or ending in the town;
      (5)   Attending any religious, municipal, social, entertainment,
sporting, political, library or school function or engaged in travel between
such a function and the minor’s place of residence; or
      (6)   Within the immediate vicinity of the minor’s place of residence.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)  (Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-21-1999)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17  PARENTAL LIABILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian having care of a minor to
knowingly permit or, by ineffective control, allow such minor to violate the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)  (Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-21-1999)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Violations of §
130.02 of this chapter shall be a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)
   (C)   (1)   Arrest, citation. Any person who is in violation of the
provisions of §
130.16 of this chapter is subject to arrest and citation.
      (2)   Return to custody of parent. Any minor arrested or cited shall be
returned to the custody of the parent, guardian or other person charged with
the care and custody of the minor.
      (3)   Parent’s refusal to appear/take custody. It shall be unlawful for
any parent, guardian or other person charged with the care and custody of a
minor who is in violation of §
130.16 of this chapter to knowingly refuse to appear and take custody of such
minor within a reasonable time after being ordered to do so by a peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4)
(Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-21-1999)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PLAN
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PLAN
Section
   
150.01   Plan adopted by reference
§ 150.01  PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s General Plan, including any and all amendments and updates, is
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2003-02, passed 1-16-2003)
CHAPTER 151:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Building inspection services; agreement
   
151.02   State building standards
   
151.03   Building numbering; street naming
   
151.04   Fire Code adopted
Impact Fees
   
151.15   Definitions
   
151.16   Plan adopted
   
151.17   Service area established
   
151.18   Impact fees levied
   
151.19   Time of collection
   
151.20   Use of fees
   
151.21   Adjustments
   
151.22   Exemptions
   
151.23   Accounting, expenditures and refunds
   
151.24   Challenges and appeals
   
151.25   Administrative development fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  BUILDING INSPECTION SERVICES; AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts by reference Res. 2000-01, as may be amended
from time to time, which approves the interlocal agreement between the county
and the town for building inspection services.
   (B)   Said resolution and agreement are on file in the town office.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 151.02  STATE BUILDING STANDARDS.
   The town hereby adopts by reference the provisions of the state’s
Construction Code or an approved code under Title 15A, State Construction and
Fire Codes, UCA Title 15A, Ch. 2.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
§ 151.03  BUILDING NUMBERING; STREET NAMING.
   (A)   Uniform numbering system established. There is hereby established a
uniform system for numbering buildings fronting on all streets, avenues and
public ways in the town, and all houses and other buildings shall be numbered
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
   (B)   Baseline streets for dividing town.
      (1)   Streets running north and south. Center Street shall constitute the
baseline which will divide the town into northern and southern parts.
Hereafter, all streets north of this baseline and running generally in a
northerly direction shall be considered “north” streets and likewise, all
streets south of this baseline and running in a generally southerly direction
shall be considered “south” streets.
      (2)   Streets running east and west. Main Street shall be considered the
baseline which divides the town into east and west parts. Hereafter, streets
east of this baseline and running in a generally easterly direction shall be
considered “east” streets and likewise, streets west of and running in a
generally westerly direction shall be considered “west” streets.
      (3)   Numbering buildings north and south.
         (a)   Each building north of Center Street and facing a street running
in a northerly direction shall carry a number indicating its location north of
such base street.
         (b)   Each building south of Center Street and facing a street running
in a southerly direction shall carry a number and address indicating its
location south of such base street.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2)
(Ord. 1990-03, passed 10-18-1990)
§ 151.04  FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted as the Fire Code by the town, for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and protecting
property from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the “Uniform Fire
Code”, current edition, as recommended by the Western Fire Chiefs Association
and the International Conference of Building Officials, except to the extent it
is modified or amended, one copy of which has been and is now filed in the
office of the Town Clerk for use and inspection by the public.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1)
IMPACT FEES
§ 151.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. UCA §§ 11-36a-101 et seq., entitled Impact Fees Act, or any successor
enactment of said statute.
   CAPITAL FACILITIES PLAN. Those portions of the town culinary water master
plan which pertain to the town’s capital facilities, including the improvement
or expansion of the town’s culinary water system, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any construction or expansion of a building, structure
or use, any changes in use of a building or structure, or any change in the use
of land that creates additional demand and need for public facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. Any written authorization from the town that
authorizes the commencement of development activity.
   IMPACT FEE. A payment of money imposed upon development activity as a
condition of development approval. IMPACT FEE does not mean a tax, a special
assessment, a building permit fee, a hook-up fee, a fee for project
improvements or other reasonable permit or application fees.
   PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS. Site improvements and facilities that are:
      (1)   Planned and designed to provide service for development resulting
from a development activity; and
      (2)   Necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of
the development resulting from a development activity.
   SERVICE AREA. The geographic area designated by the town in which a defined
set of public facilities provides service within the area.
   TOWN. Oak City, Utah, a Utah municipal corporation.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)  (Ord. 1999-02, passed 8-19-1999)
§ 151.16  PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the report from Sunrise Engineering, Inc.,
dated May 1999, entitled “Oak City, Utah, Culinary Water Master Plan”, which
includes, but is not limited to, recommended system improvements, proposed
financing plan and written analysis for impact fees, and which establishes the
costs for providing certain public facilities occasioned by development
projects within the town and certain credits allowable against impact fees in
the town. The Culinary Water Master Plan is set forth as Exhibit A, attached to
the ordinance codified herein, and incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)  (Ord. 1999-02, passed 8-19-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Water System Emergency Response Plan, see
Ch. 51
§ 151.17  SERVICE AREA ESTABLISHED.
   The town shall constitute a single service area and all real property
located within the corporate boundaries of the town shall be included within
such service area.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3)  (Ord. 1999-02, passed 8-19-1999)
§ 151.18  IMPACT FEES LEVIED.
   The impact fees for the town service areas are hereby established and/or
levied and are contained in the consolidated fee schedule, as adopted by
resolution and by this reference made a part hereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4)  (Ord. 1999-02, passed 8-19-1999)
§ 151.19  TIME OF COLLECTION.
   Unless otherwise provided by the Town Council, impact fees shall be payable
prior to or at the time of the issuance of a building permit by the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5)  (Ord. 1999-02, passed 8-19-1999)
§ 151.20  USE OF FEES.
   The fees shall be used solely to:
   (A)   Pay for the described public facilities to be constructed by the town;
   (B)   For reimbursing the town for the development’s share of those capital
improvements already constructed by the town; or
   (C)   To reimburse developers who have constructed public facilities where
those facilities were beyond that needed to mitigate the impacts of the
developer’s project.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)  (Ord. 1999-02, passed 8-19-1999)
§ 151.21  ADJUSTMENTS.
   The town may, upon a proper showing, adjust the standard impact fee at the
time the fee is charged to:
   (A)   Respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases;
   (B)   Ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly; and
   (C)   Allow credits as specified by the act or as contained in the Culinary
Water Master Plan for the town;
   (D)   Adjust the amount of the fee based upon studies and data submitted by
the developer which are approved by the town after review of the same; and
   (E)   Allow credits as approved by the town for dedication of land for,
improvement to or new construction of public facilities providing services to
the community at large; provided, such facilities are based upon a reasonable
plan and are required by the town as a condition of approving the development
activity. No credit shall be given for project improvements, as defined in the
act.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-7)  (Ord. 1999-02, passed 8-19-1999)
§ 151.22  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Specified. The following may be exempted from payment of the impact
fee:
      (1)   Alterations or expansion of an existing building where no
additional residential units or equivalent residential units are created and
where the use is not changed;
      (2)   The construction of accessory buildings or structures where no
additional residential units or equivalent residential units are created and
where the use is not changed;
      (3)   The installation of a replacement mobile home, manufactured home or
modular unit on a lot or other such site when an impact fee for such mobile
home, manufactured home or modular unit site has previously been paid pursuant
to this subchapter and where a mobile home, manufactured home or modular unit
legally existed on such site on or prior to the effective date hereof; and
      (4)   The construction of buildings by a government agency or other
development activities with broad public purpose as determined by the Mayor. In
the event that an exemption is granted, the Town Council shall establish the
source of funding to pay for the impact of the development activity.
   (B)   When claim made; waiver. Any claim of exemption must be made no later
than the time of application for a building permit or permit for mobile home,
manufactured home or modular unit installation. Any claim not so made shall be
deemed waived.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-8)  (Ord. 1999-02, passed 8-19-1999)
§ 151.23  ACCOUNTING, EXPENDITURES AND REFUNDS.
   The town shall account for, expend and refund impact fees in accordance with
the provisions of the act.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-9)  (Ord. 1999-02, passed 8-19-1999)
§ 151.24  CHALLENGES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Authority. Any person or entity residing in or owning property within
a service area, and any organization, association or corporation representing
the interests of persons or entities owning property within a service area, may
file a declaratory judgment action challenging the validity of the fee.
   (B)   Request for information. Any person or entity required to pay an
impact fee imposed by the town who believes the fee does not meet the
requirements of law may file a written request for information with the town as
provided by law.
   (C)   Analysis. Within two weeks of the receipt of the request for
information, the town shall provide the person or entity with the written
analysis required by the act and with any other relevant information relating
to the impact fee.
   (D)   Challenge. Within 30 days after paying an impact fee, any person or
entity who has paid the fee and wishes to challenge the fee shall:
      (1)   File a written appeal with the Town Council by delivering a copy of
such appeal to the Mayor or Town Recorder setting forth in detail all grounds
for the appeal and all facts relied upon by the appealing party with respect to
the fees appealed. Upon receipt of appeal, the Town Council shall thereafter
schedule a hearing on the appeal at which time all interested persons will be
given an opportunity to be heard. The Town Council shall schedule the appeal
hearing and, thereafter, render its decision on the appeal no later than 30
days after the challenge to the impact fee is filed. Any person or entity who
has failed to comply with the administrative appeal remedies established by
this section may not file or join an action challenging the validity of any
impact fee.
      (2)   Within 90 days of a decision upholding an impact fee by the town or
within 120 days after the date the challenge to the impact fee was filed,
whichever is earlier, any party to the appeal that is adversely affected by the
Town Council’s decision may petition the fourth judicial district court in and
for the county for review of the decision.
      (3)   In the event of a petition to the fourth judicial district court,
the town shall transmit to the reviewing court the record of its proceedings,
including its minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a true and correct
transcript of its proceedings.
      (4)   If the proceeding was tape recorded, a transcript of that tape
recording is a true and correct transcript for purposes of division (D)(3)
above.
      (5)   If there is a record:
         (a)   The district court’s review is limited to the record provided by
the town; and
         (b)   The district court may not accept or consider any evidence
outside the town’s record, unless that evidence was offered to the town and the
court determines that it was improperly excluded by the town.
      (6)   If there is an inadequate record, the district court may call
witnesses and take evidence.
      (7)   The district court shall affirm the decision of the town if the
decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record.
      (8)   The judge may award reasonable attorney fees and costs to the
prevailing party in any action brought under this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-10)  (Ord. 1999-02, passed 8-19-1999)
§ 151.25  ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT FEES.
   (A)   Established. In addition to construction and dedication of any
required public improvements and the payment of impact fees, fees may also be
established by the town for building permits, excavation permits, filing of
various applications, inspection of improvements, site plan reviews, connection
to water facilities and other similar purposes. The amounts of these fees shall
be listed in a consolidated fee schedule adopted by resolution and may
hereafter be set or amended by resolution of the Town Council.
   (B)   Payment of fee required. No application or request shall be accepted
or application taken thereon until the applicant has paid to the town the
required fees listed in the consolidated fee schedule applicable to such
application or request.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-11)  (Ord. 1999-02, passed 8-19-1999)
CHAPTER 152:  STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Department of Streets
   
152.02   Obstructions in streets
   
152.03   Doors obstructing streets, alleys and the like
   
152.04   Discharge of water
   
152.05   Crossing at intersections
   
152.06   Sidewalks
Street and Sidewalk Construction
   
152.20   Permit required; inspection
   
152.21   Conformance to established specifications
   
152.22   Changing existing construction
   
152.23   Building materials in street; permit
   
152.24   Mixing concrete on paved streets or sidewalks
   
152.25   Overflowing water
   
152.26   Irrigation ditches
Excavations
   
152.40   Permit requirements
   
152.41   Bond required
   
152.42   Subject and excluded excavations
   
152.43   Standards
   
152.44   Protection of public
   
152.45   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
152.46   Revocation or refusal of permit
   
152.47   Exception in emergency
Use and Control of Municipal Property
   
152.60   Unlawful use
   
152.61   Repair after unlawful use
   
152.62   Franchise; easement
   
152.63   Acts exempted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  DEPARTMENT OF STREETS.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a Department of Streets, which shall
have general supervision of streets, sidewalks, bridges and other public ways.
   (B)   Superintendent. The Department shall be under the direction and
control of the Superintendent of Streets.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Department shall:
      (1)   Have charge of the construction, maintenance and repair of streets,
sidewalks, bridges, curbs, gutters, culverts, drains, waterways and other
public ways. It shall have control of all waters flowing on the streets,
sidewalks and public ways whether originating from storm, flood, drainage or
irrigation waters;
      (2)   Keep a record of and promptly investigate all complaints of
defective streets, culverts, drains, ditches, sidewalks and other public ways
and, when proper, repair, replace or take such action as deemed best, and shall
record the action taken on each complaint;
      (3)   Enforce the provisions of this subchapter and all other ordinances
relating to the maintenance and use of streets, culverts, drains, ditches,
waterways, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and other public ways; and
      (4)   Repair, or cause to be repaired, all defects coming to the
Department’s attention and take reasonable precautions to protect the public
from injuries due to such defects pending their repair.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 152.02  OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of
any premises to place, or permit to be placed upon or in the sidewalk, parking
area, gutter or on the half of the street next to such premises:
   (A)   Refuse. Any broken ware, glass, filth, rubbish, sweepings, refuse
matter, ice, snow, water, garbage, ashes, tin cans or other like substances;
   (B)   Building materials. Any wagons, lumber, wood boxes, fencing, building
material, dead trees, tree stumps, merchandise or other thing which shall
obstruct such public street, gutter, parking area or sidewalk, or any part
thereof, or the passage over and upon the same, or any part thereof, except as
expressly authorized by ordinance, without the permission of the Town Council
first had and obtained; and
   (C)   Permanent or temporary structures. Any permanent or temporary
structure, mechanism, device, vehicle or other thing of any kind or character,
except trees planted pursuant to the provisions of applicable ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03  DOORS OBSTRUCTING STREETS, ALLEYS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning or having
the control or management of any alley, road or passageway to construct or hang
gates or doors to such alley, road or passageway so that the gates or doors
thereto, when open, shall project outwardly more than two feet over or upon the
sidewalk beyond the property line.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04  DISCHARGE OF WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of
any premises to fail, refuse or neglect to prevent water from the roof or eaves
of any house, building or other structure, or from any other source under the
control of such person, to be discharged upon the surface of any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05  CROSSING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or park a self-propelled
vehicle or lead, drive or ride any animal upon any sidewalk, except across a
sidewalk at established crossings.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06  SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Businesses to keep clean. It shall be unlawful for any owners or
occupants of any place of business to refuse, neglect or fail to cause the
sidewalk abutting thereon to be swept or cleaned.
   (B)   Placing goods for sale or show. No goods, wares or merchandise shall
be placed, maintained or permitted for sale or show in or on any parking area,
street or sidewalk beyond two feet from the front line of the lot, without
first obtaining the written approval of the Town Council. Such approval shall
be granted only when such sale or show shall be a promotional activity not
exceeding 48 hours and when participated in by a majority of firms seeking
approval in their business areas. The Town Council’s written approval shall
specifically provide that no goods, wares or merchandise shall be placed in
such a manner as to leave less than a six-foot passageway for pedestrians.
   (C)   Playing. Every person who obstructs the sidewalk or street by playing
any game or engaging in any activity which obstructs the free travel thereon is
guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Congregating. It is an infraction and subject to penalty as provided
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances for any person or persons to congregate about
or upon any sidewalk, stairway, doorway, window or in front of any business or
dwelling house, theater, lecture room, church or elsewhere and by so doing to
obstruct or interfere with the free passage of persons entering, leaving or
occupying such building or premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 152.20  PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Required. No person, either as owner, agent, servant, contractor or
employee, shall construct any permanent sidewalk for public use without first
obtaining from the Superintendent of Streets a permit to do so. The permit
shall specify that the sidewalk be constructed of cement, the character and
quality of the cement, the consistent parts of the mixture and the thickness of
the walk.
   (B)   Unlawful violation of specifications. It shall be unlawful to
construct a sidewalk in violation of the specifications given by a proper town
official.
   (C)   Inspection. All sidewalks shall be inspected by the Superintendent of
Streets or his or her duly authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.21  CONFORM TO ESTABLISHED SPECIFICATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, agent, servant,
contractor or employee to construct a street or sidewalk which does not conform
to specifications established by the Town Engineer or other authorized
representative of the town unless special permission to deviate from such
specification is first obtained from the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.22  CHANGING EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a driveway across a
sidewalk, or cut or change the construction of sidewalk, curb or gutter without
first making written application and obtaining from the Superintendent of
Streets a permit to do so. The acceptance of such permit shall be deemed an
agreement on the part of such person to construct said driveway in accordance
with specifications furnished by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.23  BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET; PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or use any portion of
the public streets when erecting or repairing any building upon land abutting
thereon, without first making application to and receiving from the Town
Council a permit for the occupation or use of such portions of streets for such
periods of time and under such limitations and restrictions as may be required
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Any such permit may be revoked by the Town Council at any time when
the holder thereof fails to comply with any rule or regulation under which it
was granted or when, in the opinion of the Town Council, the public interest
requires such revocation.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.24  MIXING CONCRETE ON PAVED STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   Unless permission from the Town Council has been obtained, it shall be
unlawful to:
   (A)   Place, pile or permit. Place or pile, or permit to be placed or piled,
any sand, gravel, lime, cement, mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance
or mixture, or allow the same to remain on any portion of any paved street or
sidewalk; and/or
   (B)   Make, mix or permit. Make or mix or permit to be made or mixed any
mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance or mixture on any portion of
any paved street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.25  OVERFLOWING WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow water to overflow from any
ditch, canal, well or irrigation stream onto the streets, sidewalks or property
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.26  IRRIGATION DITCHES.
   (A)   All owners or occupants of lots in the town who require water from a
ditch for irrigation or other purposes shall dig ditches, erect flumes, lay
pipes and install culverts, as needed, and maintain the same to convey water
under sidewalks to or from their respective lots.
   (B)   All culverts, ditches, pipes and flumes conveying water under
sidewalks shall meet such reasonable standards and specifications as may be
established by the Superintendent of Streets.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 152.40  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to break, excavate,
tunnel, undermine or in any manner affect the surface or base of any street or
to place, deposit or leave upon any street any earth or any other excavated
material obstructing or tending to interfere with the free use of the street,
unless such person shall first have obtained an excavation permit therefor from
the Superintendent of Streets.
   (B)   Streets and sidewalks.
      (1)   No person shall make any excavation in any street, land or alley or
remove any pavement or other material from any street or improvement thereon
without first, obtaining a permit from the Superintendent of Streets or other
authorized representative of the town.
      (2)   No person shall excavate any sidewalk without first obtaining a
permit from the Superintendent of Streets or other authorized personnel.
   (C)   Franchise; public utility.
      (1)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to waive
the franchise required for any person by town ordinances or laws of the state.
      (2)   Any public utility regulated by the state or holding a franchise
from the town which, in the pursuit of its calling, has frequent occasion to
open or make excavations in streets, may, upon application, receive a general
permit from the town to cover all excavations such utilities may make within
the streets of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.41  BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   In order to ensure proper backfill and restoration of surface, the
permittee may be required deposit a surety bond or cash deposit with the Town
Clerk, payable to the town; except that, a public utility operating or using
any of the streets under a franchise from the town will not be required to
furnish such bond, providing such franchise obligates the holder thereof to
restore the streets and to hold the town harmless in the event of any injury to
any person or damage to any property due to negligence of such holder in
conducting excavation and restoration operations under such franchise.
   (B)   The required surety bond must be:
      (1)   With good and sufficient surety;
      (2)   By a surety company authorized to transact business in the state;
      (3)   Satisfactory to the town attorney in form and substance;
      (4)   Conditioned upon the permittee’s compliance with this subchapter in
order to secure and hold the town and its officers harmless against any and all
claims, judgments or other costs arising from the excavation and other work
covered by the excavation permit for which the town, the Town Council or any
town officer may be made liable by reason of any accident or injury to any
person or property through the fault of the permittee arising out of failure to
properly guard the excavation or for any other negligence of the permittee; and
      (5)   Conditioned to fill up, restore and place in good and safe
condition, as near as may be to its original condition, and to the satisfaction
of the town, all openings and excavations made in streets, and to maintain any
street where excavation is made in as good condition for the period of 24
months after the work shall be done, usual wear and tear excepted, as it was
before the work shall have been done.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 152.42  SUBJECT AND EXCLUDED EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Types subject to provisions. The following types of excavations are
subject to the provisions of this subchapter: excavations for installation or
repair of water lines, sewer lines, gas lines, electrical cable and conduits,
telephone cable and conduits; and all other excavations for any other purpose
within the street rights-of-way of the town or in other public places.
   (B)   Types not subject to provisions. The following types of excavations do
not come within the scope of this subchapter: excavations of any kind in town
streets in projects designed, contracted for and inspected by the Town Engineer
or other authorized personnel of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 152.43  STANDARDS.
   (A)   Preparation. The pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other surface shall
be cut vertically along the lines forming the trench in such a manner as to not
damage the adjoining pavement or hard surfacing. An undercut bevel at the rate
of one inch per foot of thickness will be provided at the proposed junction
between the old and new surfaces. The portion to be removed shall be broken up
in a manner that will not cause damage to the pavement outside the limits of
the trench. However, any pavement damaged by operations outside the limits of
the trench shall be replaced. All waste material resulting from the excavation
shall be removed immediately from the site of the work.
   (B)   Backfill.
      (1)   Materials. Materials for backfill will be of select nature. All
broken concrete, peat, decomposed vegetable matter and similar materials
obtained from excavation will be removed from the site prior to beginning of
backfilling. All backfill will be placed in layers not over eight inches loose
measure in thickness. Compaction will be obtained by mechanical rollers,
mechanical tampers or similar means. Material for backfilling will have optimum
moisture to ensure compaction to a degree equivalent to that of the undisturbed
ground in which the trench was dug. Jetting or internal vibrating methods of
compacting sand fill or similar methods of compacting sand or similar granular-
free draining materials will be permitted.
      (2)   Density. The density (dry) of the backfill under pavements,
sidewalks, curbs or other structures will be not less than that existing prior
to excavation. The fill shall be restored and placed in a good condition which
will prevent settling.
   (C)   Restoration of surfaces.
      (1)   General. All street surfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, driveways
or other hard surfaces failing in the line of the excavation which must be
removed in performance of the work shall be restored in kind by the excavator,
unless otherwise directed by the Town Council, in accordance with the
specifications contained herein governing the various types of surfaces
involved.
      (2)   Protection of paved surfaces. In order to avoid unnecessary damage
to paved surfaces, track equipment shall use pavement pads when operating on or
crossing paved surfaces.
      (3)   Time. In traffic lanes of paved streets, the excavator shall
provide temporary gravel surfaces or cold mulch in good condition immediately
after backfill has been placed, and shall complete permanent repairs on the
street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, driveway and other surfaces, within five days
from the date of completion of the backfill, except for periods:
         (a)   When permanent paving material is not available;
         (b)   When weather conditions prevent permanent replacement; and
         (c)   When an extension of time is granted by the Superintendent of
Streets.
      (4)   Temporary repair. If temporary repair has been made on the paved
street with gravel and a permanent repair cannot be made within the time
specified above due to any of the above mentioned conditions, then the
excavator shall be required to replace the gravel with cold mulch as soon as
possible.
   (D)   Restoring bituminous on concrete or asphalt surfaces.
      (1)   Temporary grade surface. Where excavations are made in paved areas,
the surface shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface. The gravel shall
be placed deep enough to provide a minimum of six inches below the bottom of
the bituminous or concrete surface. Normally, this will require nine inches of
gravel for bituminous surfaces, 12 inches of gravel for concrete, and concrete
base for asphalt-wearing surfaces. The gravel shall be placed in the trench at
the time it is backfilled. The temporary gravel surface shall be maintained by
blading, sprinkling, rolling, adding gravel, to maintain a safe, uniform
surface satisfactory to the inspector or Superintendent of Streets until the
final surface is laid. Excess material shall be removed from the premises
immediately. Material for use on temporary gravel surfaces shall be obtained
from sound, tough, durable gravel or rock meeting the following requirements
for gradings:
 
Passing 1-inch sieve   100%
Passing 3/4-inch sieve 85 - 100%
No. 4 sieve            45 - 65%
Passing No. 10 sieve   30 - 50%
Passing No. 200 sieve  5 - 10%
 
      (2)   Bituminous surface. The exposed edges of existing pavement shall be
primed with type MC-1 bituminous material. The type, grade and mixture of the
asphalt to be used for street surface replacement shall be approved by the
Superintendent of Streets. The thickness shall be equal to the adjacent surface
thickness, but not less than three inches. The complete surface shall not
deviate more than one-half inch between old and new work.
   (E)   Concrete surfaces. The sub-base for concrete surfaces shall be
sprinkled just before placing the concrete. Joints and surfaces shall be made
to match the original surfaces. The thickness of concrete shall be equal to the
adjacent concrete, but in no case less than six inches thick. The mixing,
cement, water content, proportion, placement and curing of the concrete will be
approved by the Superintendent of Streets. In no case shall the concrete have
less compressive strength than 3,000 pounds per square inch at the end of 28
days.
   (F)   Concrete base, bituminous wearing surfaces. This type of surfacing
shall be constructed as above described.
   (G)   Gravel surfaces. Trenches excavated through gravel-surfaced area, such
as gravel roads and shoulders and unpaved driveways, shall have the gravel
restored and maintained as described in division (E) above; except that, the
gravel shall be a minimum of one inch more than the thickness of the existing
gravel.
   (H)   Jetting pipe. Jetting pipe, by means of water under pressure or
compressed air, is permitted only when approved by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.44  PROTECTION OF PUBLIC.
   Excavation operations shall be conducted in such a manner that a minimum
amount of interference or interruption of street traffic will result.
Inconvenience to residents and businesses fronting on public streets shall be
minimized. Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades shall be available and
used where necessary to prevent accidents involving property or persons.
Barricades must be in place until all of the excavator’s equipment is removed
from site and excavation has been backfilled and proper temporary gravel
surface is in place. From sunset to sunrise all barricades and excisions must
be clearly outlined by acceptable warning lights, lanterns, flares and other
devices. Police and Fire Departments shall be notified at least 24 hours in
advance of any planned excavation requiring street closures or detour.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.45  RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   An excavator shall not interfere with any existing utility without the
written consent of the Town Council and without advance notice to the owner of
the utility. If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing utility, it shall
be done by its owner unless the owner otherwise directs. No utility, whether
owned by the town or by a private enterprise, shall be moved to accommodate the
permittee unless the cost of such work be borne by the permittee or an
expressly-written agreement is made whereby the utility owner and the excavator
make other arrangements relating to such cost. The permittee shall support and
protect by timbers or otherwise all pipes, conduits, poles, wires or other
apparatus which may be in any way affected by the excavation work, and shall do
everything necessary to support, sustain and protect them under, over, along or
across the work. In case any of the pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus
should be damaged (and for this purpose pipe coating or other encasement or
devices are to be considered as part of a substructure), they shall be repaired
by the agency or person owning them, but the utility owner shall be reimbursed
for the expense of such repairs by the permittee. It is the intent of this
subchapter that the permittee shall assume all liability for damage to
substructures, and any resulting damage or injury to anyone because of such
substructure damage and such assumption of liability shall be deemed a
contractual obligation which the permittee accepts upon acceptance of an
excavation permit. The town need not be made a party to any action because of
this subchapter. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and
location of all underground utilities and protect the same against damage.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6)
§ 152.46  REVOCATION OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT.
   All permits shall be subject to revocation and the town may refuse to issue
a permit for failure of the permittee or applicant to abide by the terms and
conditions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 152.47  EXCEPTION IN EMERGENCY.
   Excavation permits will not be requested prior to excavation in case of
emergency endangering life or property; providing, the town is notified as soon
as practicable and a permit is applied for upon the next regular working day
following the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8)
USE AND CONTROL OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 152.60  UNLAWFUL USE.
   Unless authorized by permit or other written authorization issued by the
town or unless authority is granted by provisions of this code or other
ordinance of the town now or hereafter enacted, it shall be a Class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, for any person to:
   (A)   Property controlled by town. Construct, lay, excavate, erect, operate
or maintain over, under, across, in or through any property owned or controlled
by the town, any utility, canal, ditch, construction or building;
   (B)   Restricted areas. Enter upon any property of the town contrary to any
posting or marking restricting or prohibiting use of the area; and/or
   (C)   Damage to property. Intentionally use or perform acts upon property of
the town which materially impairs, alters or damages the property.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.61  REPAIR AFTER UNLAWFUL USE.
   The Town Council, in addition to any other penalty which may be imposed, may
order any person who has damaged, altered or changed any property of the town
to repair or restore the property to its original condition prior to the
damage, alteration or change.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 152.62  FRANCHISE; EASEMENT.
   (A)   Provisions. The Town Council may grant to any person a franchise or
easement on such terms and conditions as it deems reasonable, for the purpose
of entering upon, constructing, building, operating and maintaining any
business or for other use of the property of the town, and the provisions of §§
152.60 and
152.61 of this chapter shall not apply to the extent such provisions are
waived, qualified or made inapplicable to the rights or privileges granted in
the franchise ordinance or easement.
   (B)   In writing. Any franchise or easement granted by the town shall be in
writing and any franchise or easement not in writing shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 152.63  ACTS EXEMPTED.
   It shall not be a violation of this subchapter where any person uses the
public property of the town in the manner or for the purpose for which such
property has been made available for public use.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4)
CHAPTER 153:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Applicable lands
   
153.07   Compliance
   
153.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.09   Interpretation
   
153.10   Disclaimer of liability
   
153.11   Development permit
   
153.12   Building Inspector
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.25   General
   
153.26   Anchoring
   
153.27   Construction materials and methods
   
153.28   Utilities
   
153.29   Subdivision proposals
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Periodic inundation. The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to
periodic inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   Cumulative effect of obstructions. These flood fosses are caused in
part by the cumulative effect of obstructions in flood prone areas which
increase flood heights and velocities, and when inadequately flood-proofed,
elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage, also contribute to the flood
loss.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   (A)   Protection. To protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditures. To minimize expenditure of public money for
costly flood-control projects;
   (C)   Minimize need for rescue efforts. To minimize the need for rescue and
relief efforts associated with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense
of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize interruptions. To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage. To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities
such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and
bridges;
   (F)   Maintain stable tax base. To help maintain a stable tax base by
minimizing future flood blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure responsibility. To ensure that those who occupy the flood-prone
areas assume responsibility for their actions.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.04  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting uses. Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous
to health, safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result
in damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring uses and facilities. Requiring that uses vulnerable to
floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood
damage at the time of initial construction;
   (C)   Controlling alterations. Controlling the alteration of natural
floodplains, stream channels and natural protective barriers, which help
accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Controlling development. Controlling filling, grading, dredging and
other development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Construction of barriers. Preventing or regulating the construction of
flood barriers which will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase
flood hazards in other areas.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure that is transportable in one or more sections,
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required facilities. It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building or mobile home that is principally
aboveground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (3)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specification which is
solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or a state inventory of historic places.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.06  APPLICABLE LANDS.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.07  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.08  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions; however, where this title and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.09  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the Town Council; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.10  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of any officer or
employee thereof, or the federal insurance administration, for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.11  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within the community. Application for a development permit shall be made
on forms furnished by the county’s Building Inspector and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the nature,
location, dimensions and elevations of the areas in question; existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage of materials and drainage facilities; and
the location of the foregoing.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.12  BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Designation. The county’s Building Inspector is hereby appointed to
administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with its provisions.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities for permit review. Duties of the county’s
Building Inspector shall include, but not be limited to, permit review, as
follows:
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied and to determine whether
proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required; and
      (3)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the flood prone
area. For the purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means damage to
adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to physical
changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
         (a)   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration.
         (b)   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then
technical jurisdiction (i.e., a registered professional engineer) for the
proposed development shall be required.
         (c)   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions
of this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.25  GENERAL.
   If a proposal building site is located in a flood prone area, all new
construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
prefabricated buildings and mobile homes) shall conform to the following
standards.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 153.26  ANCHORING.
   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.27  CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.28  UTILITIES.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.29  SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   All subdivision proposals shall:
   (A)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage; and
   (C)   Have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-9)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
CHAPTER 154:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purposes
   
154.002   Definitions
   
154.003   Compliance with subdivision and zoning regulations
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.015   Enforcement officials designated
   
154.016   Permits issued after plat approved
   
154.017   Inspections
   
154.018   Agreement required
Preliminary Review and Subdivision Approval
   
154.030   Compliance with requirements
   
154.031   Concept plan review
   
154.032   Submission of preliminary plat
   
154.033   Planning Commission approval of preliminary plat
   
154.034   Form and contents of preliminary plat
   
154.035   Final plat
   
154.036   Modification of requirements
Dedicated Streets and Public Improvements
   
154.050   Dedications
   
154.051   Time of acceptance
Required Improvements
   
154.065   Application of required improvements
   
154.066   Improvements made prior to recording final plat
   
154.067   Order of making improvements
   
154.068   Guarantee of improvements
Improvements
   
154.080   Time of construction
   
154.081   Streets on property of other public agencies or companies
   
154.082   Streets
   
154.083   Curbs, gutters and sidewalks
   
154.084   Water supply
   
154.085   Fire hydrants
   
154.086   Sewage disposal
   
154.087   Surface water
   
154.088   Ditches and canals
   
154.089   Monuments
   
154.090   Street signs
   
154.091   Fences and guards
   
154.092   Street lights
Design Standards
   
154.105   Streets
   
154.106   Natural drainage and other easements
   
154.107   Protection strips
   
154.108   Blocks
   
154.109   Lots
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   Health, safety and welfare. To promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of the city;
   (B)   Efficient and orderly growth. To promote the efficient and orderly
growth of the town; and
   (C)   Standards for physical development. To provide standards for the
physical development of subdivisions of land, construction of buildings and
improvements within the town, including, but not limited to, the construction
and installation of roads, streets, curbs, gutters, drainage systems, water,
and design standards for public facilities and utilities, access to public
rights-of-way, dedication of land and streets, granting easements or rights-of-
way and to establish fees and other charges for the authorizing of a
subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTORNEY. The person or persons approved by the Town Council to be the Town
Attorney.
   BLOCK. The land surrounded by streets and other rights-of-way other than an
alley, or land which is designated or shown as a block on any recorded
subdivision plot or official map or plat adopted by the Town Council.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The person or persons appointed by the Town Council to
be the town’s Building Inspector.
   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS. The standards and specifications by which
subdivisions may be developed and which are adopted by the Town Council.
   EASEMENTS. A quantity of land set aside or over which the public, a person
or persons have a right, privilege, liberty or use of such land, without
profit, existing distinct from the ownership of land.
   ENGINEER. The person appointed by the Town Council to be the Town Engineer.
   GENERAL PLAN. The General Plan of the town.
   IMPROVED LOT. A lot which has all of the improvements as may be required by
this chapter.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Includes all roads, streets, curbs, gutters, gradings,
landscaping, water and drainage systems, and public facilities required by this
chapter.
   LOT. A parcel or tract of land within a subdivision which is or may be
occupied by a building or structure and the accessory buildings, structures or
uses customarily incident thereto, including such open spaces as are arranged
and designed to be used in connection with the building according to the zone
within which the lot is located.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. The Major Street Plan of the town.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The official map or maps adopted by the town pursuant to the
municipal zoning and planning enabling legislation.
   PERSON. Any individuals, tenants in common, joint tenants, a corporation,
partnership, firm, limited partnership or association of individuals, however
styled or designated. Any use of the word PERSON, as defined in this section,
shall be deemed to include the singular or plural and each gender, as
appropriate.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the town.
   PROTECTION STRIP. A strip of land of less than the minimum size required by
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances for a building lot bordering the boundary of
a subdivision or a street within the subdivision for the purpose of controlling
the access of property owners abutting the subdivision to the street.
   STREET. A thoroughfare which has been dedicated and accepted by the Town
Council, which the town has acquired by prescriptive right or which the town
owns, or which has been offered for dedication on an approved final plat, or a
thoroughfare of at least 66 feet in width which has been abandoned or made
public by right of use and which affords access to abutting property, including
highways, roads, lanes, avenues and boulevards.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street existing or proposed which is the main means of
access to a major street system.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street provided with a turnaround at the end of
the street.
   STREET, MAJOR. A street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended
to serve as a major trafficway or access highway, a major street, parkway or
other equivalent term to identify those streets comprising the basic structure
of the Street Plan.
   STREET, MINOR. A street, existing or proposed, which is supplementary to a
collector street, and of limited continuity, which serves or is intended to
serve the local needs of a neighborhood.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A thoroughfare within a subdivision which has been reserved
by dedication to the subdivider or lot owners to be used as private access to
serve the lots platted within the subdivision and complying with the adopted
street cross-section standards of the town, and which is maintained by the
subdivider or other private agency.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be
divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other division
of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions. Refer also to the definition of SUBDIVISION set forth in
UCA § 10-9a-103(65).
   TOWN COUNCIL. The governing body of Oak City, Utah.
   UTILITIES. Includes culinary water lines, electric power, gas and telephone
transmission lines, underground conduits and junction boxes.
   ZONING CHAPTER.
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.003  COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION AND ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Subdividing land. It shall be unlawful for any person to subdivide,
for the purpose of transferring, selling, conveying or assigning any tract or
parcel of land which is located wholly or in part within the town, except in
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Building permits prohibited until approval. It shall be unlawful for
any person to receive a building permit until a subdivision plat has been
approved and recorded and until approved bonds have been posted guaranteeing
installation of all improvements. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued
and there shall be no human occupancy of any dwelling or building until all
improvements have been accepted by the town and the building and lot fully
comply with the subdivision and zoning titles of the town. It shall be unlawful
for any developer to sell any lot in any subdivision without advising the buyer
that all improvements must be installed before an occupancy permit will be
issued.
   (C)   Improved lots. It shall be unlawful to build any residential unit on
any lot less than the area required by
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances. All buildings constructed within the town
shall have the required frontage on a dedicated, improved street.
   (D)   Scope of application. All lots, plots or tracts of land located within
a subdivision shall be subject to this chapter whether the tract is owned by
the subdivider or a subsequent purchaser, transferrer or holder of the land.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.015  ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS DESIGNATED.
   The Town Council and Building Inspector are hereby designated and authorized
as the officers charged with the enforcement of this chapter. They shall
enforce all the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.016  PERMITS ISSUED AFTER PLAT APPROVED.
   The Building Inspector shall not grant a permit, nor shall any town officer
grant any license or permit, for the use of any land or the construction or
alteration of any building or structure on a lot which would be in violation of
any state law or rule or regulation of the state or any ordinance of the town
until a subdivision plat has been approved pursuant to this chapter. Any
license or permit issued in conflict with such provisions shall be null and
void.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.017  INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Inspector or Town Council shall inspect or cause to be
inspected all buildings, fire hydrants, and water supply, and sewage disposal
systems in the course of construction, installation or repair. Excavations for
fire hydrants and water mains shall have been approved by the Town Council. If
any such installation is covered before being inspected and approved, it shall
be uncovered after notice to uncover has been issued to the responsible person
by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.018  AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Form. Prior to any final approval of a subdivision, the subdivider
shall enter into an agreement with the town, which agreement shall be in such
form as determined by the Town Council and on file in the office of the Town
Clerk. The agreement shall set forth all requirements and responsibilities of
the city and the subdivider.
   (B)   Corporation or partnership. The form of a corporate or partnership
signature shall include a provision for a notary in which the subdivider
represents that the person signing for the corporation or partnership has the
authority to execute the agreement for the corporation or partnership.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
PRELIMINARY REVIEW AND SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
§ 154.030  COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to subdividing any tract of land, a subdivider shall comply with the
requirements of this chapter as set out below.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.031  CONCEPT PLAN REVIEW.
   Prior to submitting a preliminary plat, a subdivider may submit an initial
written concept plan to the Planning Commission, including a sketch plan of the
proposed subdivision, in which the proposed subdivision is sufficiently
described to enable the Planning Commission to determine whether the proposed
subdivision complies with the town’s zoning title, capital growth and general
plans, street plans and services. The Planning Commission shall advise the
subdivider of its findings and possible problems with the proposed subdivision
within 30 days after it receives the initial application, including sketch
plans. Approval of the concept plan shall not constitute approval of the
preliminary plan. This section is not mandatory and a subdivider may submit a
preliminary plat plan in lieu of the concept plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.032  SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   At least 14 days prior to the date of the Planning Commission meeting at
which the preliminary subdivision plat is to be reviewed, the subdivider shall
submit ten copies of the proposed preliminary plat to the Planning Commission.
The Planning Commission shall circulate for comment and review copies of the
proposed preliminary plat to all affected departments and divisions of
municipal government and to any districts which may be providing special
services.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.033  PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Conditions. The Planning Commission shall approve only those
preliminary plats which it finds have been developed in accordance with the
standards and criteria specified in this chapter and all ordinances of the
town, including, but not limited to, the zoning regulations and General Plan.
   (B)   Soil controls. The Planning Commission shall determine from the
concept plan review or the preliminary plat the possible need for any
environmental impact report which would take into account the soil, slope,
vegetation, drainage and other geological characteristics of the site. If the
site requires substantial cutting, clearing, grading or other earth moving
operations in construction of structures or roads in the proposed development,
the Planning Commission shall require the applicant to provide soil erosion and
sedimentation control plans and specifications prepared by a licensed civil
engineer.
   (C)   Approval or disapproval. The Planning Commission shall, within 45 days
after the preliminary plat is filed with the Commission, approve the
preliminary subdivision plat if it finds that the subdivision complies with the
requirements of the town’s ordinances. The Planning Commission may
conditionally approve a preliminary subdivision plat imposing such conditions
as it may require in order to bring the subdivision plat into compliance with
the requirements of the town’s ordinances. In the event that the Planning
Commission disapproves the preliminary plat, it shall do so within 45 days
after the date the subdivider made application for approval and it shall state
in writing to the subdivider each reason for the disapproval.
   (D)   Authorization to proceed. One copy of the approved preliminary plat
with written conditions attached and signed by the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission shall be retained by the Commission and one copy shall be given to
the subdivider. Receipt of the signed copy by the subdivider shall be
authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of plans and
specifications for the improvements required in the final plat. Prior to the
construction of any improvements required by this chapter, the subdivider shall
provide the Town Engineer with all plans, information and data necessary to
install and construct the improvements. This information shall be examined by
the Town Engineer and shall be approved if he determines them to be in
accordance with the requirements of the town’s ordinances. Construction of
buildings shall not commence until after the final plat has been approved and
filed with the County Recorder. Approval of the preliminary plat does not
constitute acceptance of the subdivision.
   (E)   Approval valid for 12 months. Approval of the preliminary plat shall
be valid for 12 months unless an extension is granted by the Planning
Commission upon application by the subdivider. If the final plat has not been
recorded within the 12-month period, the preliminary plat shall be null and
void and shall thereafter require resubmission to the Planning Commission for
reapproval.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.034  FORM AND CONTENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Scale. The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale of not smaller
than 100 feet to the inch and shall be on standard 24-inch by 36-inch paper.
   (B)   Content. The preliminary plat shall show the following:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
      (2)   Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider’s
tract, or is part of a larger vacant area, the plat shall show the location of
the subdivision as it forms part of the larger tract or parcel of land. In such
case, a sketch of the prospective future street system of the unplanned parts
shall be submitted and the street system of the part submitted shall be
considered in light of adjustments and connections with the future street
system of the larger area;
      (3)   Sufficient information to locate accurately the property shown on
the plat;
      (4)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdivider and
the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to be subdivided as shown
in the records of the County Recorder;
      (5)   Contour map with contour lines at appropriate intervals, unless
waived by the Planning Commission;
      (6)   The boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided;
      (7)   Existing water lines, gas lines, phone lines and power lines within
the tract;
      (8)   The location, widths and other dimensions of proposed streets,
alleys, easements, parks and other open spaces and lots, with proper labeling
of spaces to be dedicated to the town;
      (9)   The location, dimension and names of all existing streets, alleys
or easements within the proposed subdivision or adjacent thereto. The location
of and dimensions to the nearest known benchmark or monument. The principal
location of any watercourses, public utilities or other important features
located within or adjacent to the land proposed to be subdivided;
      (10)   The proposed location of all utility easements and utility lines,
including water, irrigation water, sewer, telephone, power, gas or any other
utility easements or lines;
      (11)   A tentative plan by which the subdivider plans to handle storm
water drainage, water, sewage and other public improvements that may be
required; and
      (12)   The north point and scale of the map.
   (C)   Preliminary and final plat fees. The subdivider shall pay a filing fee
at the time of filing of the preliminary plat to offset the cost of plat
review. The fee shall be in an amount established from time to time by
resolution of the Town Council.
   (D)   Use of fees. The fee shall be used by the town to pay the cost of
preliminary and/or final review of the subdivision and shall not be refundable.
If the plat is found to comply with this chapter, or if the plat is not found
to be in compliance, one copy shall be returned to the subdivider, with red
line indications thereon showing the items, figures, words or other plat
elements which are not accurate or otherwise not in compliance with this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.035  FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Required. After compliance with the provisions of §
154.034 of this chapter, a plat of the subdivision covering all or part of an
approved preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed surveyor in
conformance with the design standards and submitted within one year from the
date of preliminary plat approval, unless the time is extended.
   (B)   Contents, procedures and form.
      (1)   The final plat shall be on a sheet of approved paper having outside
dimensions of 24 inches by 36 inches. The plat shall be drawn so that the plat
faces north. All lines, dimensions and markings shall be shown on this final
plat;
      (2)   The subdivision name and the general location of the subdivision
shall be shown in the lower right-hand corner of the plat in the space
provided;
      (3)   A north point and scale of the drawing shall be on the final plat;
      (4)   Accurately drawn boundaries, showing the proper bearings and
dimensions of all boundary lines of the subdivision, properly tied to public
survey monuments with the basis for bearings shown and clearly defined;
      (5)   The names, widths, lengths, bearings and curve data on centerlines
of proposed streets, alleys and easements; also the boundaries, bearings and
dimensions of all portions within the subdivision intended to be dedicated to
the use of the public; the lines, dimensions, bearings and numbers of all lots,
blocks and parts reserved for any reason within the subdivision. All lots are
to be numbered consecutively under a definite system. All proposed streets
shall be named or numbered in accordance with and in conformity with the
adopted street naming and numbering systems. Each lot shall show the street
address assigned thereto by the town;
      (6)   The description of the boundaries of the subdivision, together with
a certification by the subdivider’s surveyor stating that the lots described
comply with the requirements of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances;
      (7)   The registered professional land surveyor’s certificate of survey;
      (8)   The owner’s certificate of dedication;
      (9)   The town engineer’s approval;
      (10)   A notary public’s acknowledgment;
      (11)   The Planning Commission’s approval as shown by the signature of
the Chairperson of the Planning Commission;
      (12)   The Town Attorney’s approval;
      (13)   The Town Council’s approval shown by the signature of the Mayor
and attested by the Town Clerk; and
      (14)   A space for the certification of the County Recorder.
   (C)   Method of processing. The final plat shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for final approval. The Planning Commission shall circulate
the plat for comment and review to all affected departments and districts. The
Planning Commission shall have 45 days after the plat is submitted to approve
or disapprove the plat. If no action is taken within 45 days, the plat shall be
deemed to have been approved by the Planning Commission; except that, such
approval shall not operate to waive any requirements of this chapter or any
other ordinance of the town. At the time of submission of the final plat, the
subdivider shall furnish to the town a complete set of construction plans and
profiles, prepared by a licensed professional engineer, of all existing and
proposed streets within the subdivision.
   (D)   Disapproval. If the Planning Commission disapproves the final plat, it
shall so notify the subdivider in writing stating the reasons for disapproval
based upon the ordinances of the town or of the laws of the state. The written
notice shall be delivered or mailed to the subdivider within ten days after the
action by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Conditional approval. The Planning Commission may approve a final plat
subject to written conditions. Before proceeding on the basis of a plat
conditionally approved, the subdivider shall agree in writing to the conditions
imposed by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   City Attorney and City Council approval. Following approval by the
Planning Commission and the town engineer, the subdivider shall secure the
approval of the Town Attorney. The final plat shall then be taken before the
Town Council which shall approve the plat if it finds that the plat fully
complies with the ordinances of the town and the laws of the state, or that the
plat, together with the conditions to which the subdivider has agreed, fully
complies.
   (G)   Recording. The final plat, together with any conditions to which the
subdivider has agreed, bearing all official approvals as above required, shall
be deposited in the office of the County Recorder for recording at the expense
of the subdivider. No lot included in a subdivision shall be sold or exchanged
and no offer shall be made to sell or exchange any such lot until the plat is
so approved and recorded and until a public disclosure statement has been
issued by the state’s Department of Business Regulation.
   (H)   Form requirements. The forms shall be as determined by the Town
Council and on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (I)   Guidelines for approval.
      (1)   Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall approve the
subdivision if it finds that the subdivision complies with the physical
development standards of this chapter,
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances, the laws of the state and the rules and
regulations promulgated pursuant thereto; and that the subdivision will have
adequate fire protection; that there is a sufficient supply of culinary water
to the proposed subdivision; and that the addition of the subdivision will not
decrease the pressure in the culinary water system at any point within the town
to less than 45 pounds per square inch; that the traffic created thereby will
not unduly congest traffic; and that it will not create unreasonable potential
for flooding.
      (2)   Town Engineer. The Town Engineer shall approve the final plat if it
is found that the subdivision fully complies with the requirements of this
chapter and that the survey description is correct and that the easements are
appropriately located.
      (3)   Town Attorney. The Town Attorney shall approve the final plat if he
or she finds that:
         (a)   There is a current title opinion from a licensed title company
showing that the person dedicating the property described on the final plat is
the titled owner as shown on the records of the County Recorder;
         (b)   The bond, escrow, trust deed or letter of credit on deposit with
the town is in appropriate form and signed by the necessary parties to the
bond, trust deed, deposit escrow or letter of credit;
         (c)   The subdivider has executed the subdivision agreement required
by this chapter; and
         (d)   The subdivision does not, in his or her opinion, violate any
ordinance of the town, or the laws of the state or the rules or regulations
promulgated pursuant thereto.
      (4)   Town Council. The Town Council shall approve the final plat if it
finds that all other persons required to approve the plat have given their
approval, and that the final plat meets all of the requirements of the town’s
ordinances, and that it does not violate any state laws or rules and
regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, and that all fees and assessments
have been fully paid.
   (J)   Special fees. Prior to final approval or issuance of a building
permit, as determined by the Town Council upon recommendation from the Planning
Commission, there shall be collected for each lot the following fees.
      (1)   For each connection to the town water system, the amount set by
resolution of the Town Council for water hookup fees.
      (2)   For each lot shown on the final plat, an impact fee in the amount
set by resolution of the Town Council. These fees may be used by the town for
the following purposes.
         (a)   The fees collected pursuant to this division (J) shall be
deposited in a capital improvement fund and used for fire protection, public
safety, solid waste, storm drainage, street improvements, lighting, snow
removal or recreational capital improvements, with priority given to the needs
of the persons residing in the subdivision.
         (b)   The town may accumulate in separate accounts, revenues for the
purpose of acquiring or constructing the capital improvements until such time
as there are sufficient revenues to purchase or construct the capital
improvements.
         (c)   The Planning Commission, with the concurrence of the Town
Council on application by a subdivider, may postpone the fees required by this
division (J), but such fees shall be collected prior to the time, and as a
condition, of issuing each building permit. Any fee so postponed shall be
subject to any fee increase passed by the Town Council, and the applicant for
the building permit shall pay the increased cost.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.036  MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   Where, because of the size of the tract to be subdivided, its topography,
the condition or nature of adjoining areas, or the existence of other unusual
physical conditions, strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter
would cause an unusual and unnecessary hardship on the subdivider, the Planning
Commission and the Town Council may waive, modify or adjust the requirements of
this chapter. In granting the change, the Planning Commission or the Town
Council may impose such additional conditions as will, in its judgment, secure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so waived,
adjusted or modified. Any changes authorized shall be entered in the minutes of
the Planning Commission and Town Council meeting, together with the
circumstances that justified the changes granted. The decision of the Town
Council shall prevail when in conflict with the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-7)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
DEDICATED STREETS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.050  DEDICATIONS.
   The subdivider shall dedicate the streets, easements and other public
improvements to the town at the time the final plat is approved. The dedication
shall be deemed an offer by the subdivider, which shall be irrevocable until
one year after all the improvements are completed. The town shall accept the
offer of dedication only if it finds that the subdivider has constructed,
installed and maintained the public improvements required by this chapter and
that the improvements comply with the minimum development standards of the town
at the time of acceptance.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.051  TIME OF ACCEPTANCE.
   Unless the Town Council extends the time for acceptance of the dedicated
improvements, the dedication shall be accepted on action by the Town Council,
or at the expiration of one year following the completion of the public
improvements. In the event that the Town Council does not accept the dedicated
public improvements, the subdivider shall be so advised in writing of the
reason for the non- acceptance.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.065  APPLICATION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The improvements required by this chapter apply to all subdividers and to
all persons that purchase, lease, rent or receive any interest in any land
which is located within a subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.066  IMPROVEMENTS MADE PRIOR TO RECORDING FINAL PLAT.
   The improvements required by this chapter shall be constructed, installed
and maintained by the subdivider until the dedication is accepted by the town
and the final plat recorded in the office of the County Recorder, unless the
construction, installation and maintenance is guaranteed in the manner provided
in this chapter. Improvements shall not be installed until their location and
specifications have been approved by the Town Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.067  ORDER OF MAKING IMPROVEMENTS.
   Unless waived in writing by the town, underground utilities, water lines and
fire hydrants shall be installed prior to surfacing the streets and installing
road base, curbs, gutters and sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.068  GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In lieu of the actual completion and acceptance by the Town Council of
the improvements required by this chapter and before approval of the final plat
by the Town Council, the subdivider may guarantee the installation and
construction of the required improvements within two years from the date of
approval of the final plat and shall also guarantee that the improvements shall
be maintained in a state of good repair, free from defective material or
workmanship, for a period of 12 months from the date of completion. Guarantee
of the improvements shall be made by bond, escrow or letter of credit as set
out in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) below. The Town Council may, upon
application by a subdivider, and at its sole discretion, extend by 12 months
the period of time within which improvements must be completed upon finding of
good cause therefor and upon finding that the subdivider has made a diligent
and good faith effort to complete the improvements within the time period
permitted. Upon granting such a 12-month extension, the Town Council shall
establish the reasons therefor, in writing, and include the same within the
minutes of the Town Council meeting in which the extension is granted.
   (B)   The bond, escrow or irrevocable letter of credit by which guarantee is
made shall be substantially in compliance with the following forms.
      (1)   Bond. The subdivider shall furnish and file with the Town Treasurer
a bond, with corporate surety, in an amount equal to the cost, plus 10%, of the
improvements not previously installed as estimated by the engineer of the
subdivider and approved by the Town Engineer, to ensure the installation and
construction of such improvements within 24 months following the approval of
the subdivision plat by the Town Council, and which bond shall guarantee that
the improvements shall be maintained in a state of good repair, free from
material or workmanship defects for a period of 12 months following the
completion of the improvements. After 12 months, the subdivider shall call for
inspection by the Town Engineer, such inspection to be made within 20 days from
the date of the request. If inspection shows that the standards and
specifications have been met to completion of such improvements, the bond
therefor shall be released within 14 days from the time of inspection.
      (2)   Escrow agreement. The subdivider shall deposit with any insurance
company, bank or savings and loan institution in an escrow account, an amount
of money equal to at least 125% of the costs of the improvements required by
this chapter not previously accepted by the town. The costs of the improvements
not accepted and not installed or constructed shall be estimated by the
engineer of the subdivider and approved by the Town Engineer. The escrow
agreement shall be subject to approval of the Town Attorney and shall be signed
by the subdivider, the town and the escrow holder. Such agreement shall be on
file in the office of the Town Clerk.
      (3)   Irrevocable letter of credit. The subdivider shall file with the
town an irrevocable letter of credit from a duly chartered state or national
bank or savings and loan institution, which letter shall contain provisions
substantially similar to that required in the escrow agreement.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.080  TIME OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The improvements required by this chapter shall be installed prior to
recording the final plat, except as provided in §
154.068 of this chapter. Improvements shall not be installed until their
location and specifications are approved by the Town Engineer. Water mains and
laterals and fire hydrants shall be installed prior to the surfacing of streets
and the installation of road base, curbs, gutters and sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.081  STREETS ON PROPERTY OF OTHER PUBLIC AGENCIES OR COMPANIES.
   Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property controlled by a
public agency or utility company, approval of the location, improvement and
maintenance of such streets shall be obtained from the public agency or utility
company.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.082  STREETS.
   All streets shall be constructed by the subdivider in accordance with cross-
section, design and material requirements set out as the design standards and
specifications for the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.083  CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Curbs and gutters shall be installed on existing and proposed streets by the
subdivider in ail subdivisions which adjoin streets with curb and gutter and
where a drainage plan, including grades, has been established for the proper
drainage of the area. Sidewalks shall be constructed in all subdivisions except
where the Town Council, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, has
waived the sidewalk requirement. All curbs, gutters and sidewalks, when
required, shall be installed according to the design standards and
specifications for the town.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.084  WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   A culinary water supply, which must be approved by the Town Engineer
and the state’s Department of Health, shall be available to each lot in the
subdivision and shall be provided in conformance with the standards and rules
and regulations of the town.
   (B)   Where an approved public water supply is available, the subdivider
shall install water mains and service lines or laterals from such mains to each
lot within the subdivision prior to the installation of road base, surfacing,
curbs, gutters and sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.085  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Fire hydrants shall be installed by the subdivider at locations determined
by the Town Engineer and Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.086  SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   Individual sewer disposal systems or public disposal facilities shall be
provided and must meet municipal and state codes and regulations for each lot
in the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-7)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.087  SURFACE WATER.
   If the subdivision is within an area where there is a storm water runoff,
the subdivider shall construct and install a storm water drainage system within
the subdivision which shall be constructed of materials and in accordance with
the specifications of generally accepted engineering standards based on a 12-
year pattern.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-8)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.088  DITCHES AND CANALS.
   Open ditches or canals are prohibited within or adjoining a subdivision,
except along rear or side lot lines. Where there is an open ditch or canal, the
subdivider shall install a six-foot chainlink fence or the equivalent thereof
along the ditch or canal adjacent to the subdivision, but outside the canal and
maintenance right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-9)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.089  MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Permanent monuments shall be accurately set and established at such
points as may be required by the Town Engineer to definitely establish all
lines of the plat.
   (B)   Monuments shall be of a type approved by the Town Engineer.
   (C)   All subdivision plats shall be tied to a corner or monument of record
or established land office survey corner.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-10)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.090  STREET SIGNS.
   The subdivider shall furnish and install all necessary street name signs and
traffic-control signs as approved by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-11)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.091  FENCES AND GUARDS.
   In locations where a land subdivision abuts or is adjacent to public or
private grazing land, a fence of material and quality satisfactory to the
Planning Commission shall be erected around the outer limits of the subdivision
on the side abutting such grazing land. The Planning Commission may also
require installation of cattle guards where it deems such are needed.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-12)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.092  STREET LIGHTS.
   Street lights of a type approved by the Planning Commission and by the Town
Council shall be installed at all locations within the subdivision as required
by the Planning Commission or Town Council. Installations shall be made by the
subdivider and inspected by the Town Engineer. Street lighting shall be
dedicated to the town in the same manner as other improvements to be dedicated
under this chapter and shall be subject to all provisions hereof relating to
such improvements.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-13)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.105  STREETS.
   (A)   Design. Subdividers shall locate streets within the subdivision so
that the streets will connect with existing streets. Streets shall be located
and designed so that the adjoining land shall not be diminished in value. If
the adjoining land is zoned for residential use, streets shall be located so
that the adjacent land may be most efficiently subdivided. Partial streets on
the boundary of a subdivision shall be permitted only upon approval of the
Planning Commission and the Town Council.
   (B)   Angles. Streets shall approach each other at an angle of at least 90
degrees.
   (C)   Conform to Major Street Plan. Major streets and collector streets
shall conform to the width designation of the Major Street Plan wherever a
subdivision is in an area for which a major street plan has been adopted. For
territory where such street plan has not been completed at the time of the
preliminary plat being submitted to the Planning Commission, major or collector
streets shall be provided as required by the Planning Commission, with minimum
right-of-way width of 100 feet for major streets.
   (D)   Minimum width. Minor residential streets shall have a minimum right-
of-way width of 66 feet.
   (E)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sacs must be terminated by a turnaround not less
than 100 feet in diameter. If surface water drainage runs into the turnaround
due to the grade of the street, necessary catch basins and drainage easements
shall be provided. Where a street is designed to remain only temporarily as a
dead-end street, an adequate temporary turning area shall be provided at the
dead-end thereof to remain and be available for public use so long as the dead-
end exists.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.106  NATURAL DRAINAGE AND OTHER EASEMENTS.
   Easements shall be provided through the property for drainage and all
utility services. Easements shall be located along all side property lines to a
width of not less than 12 feet. All utilities shall be located underground
unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.107  PROTECTION STRIPS.
   Unless specifically approved by the Planning Commission, protection strips
shall not be approved and provisions shall be made for extension of roadways to
adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.108  BLOCKS.
   Blocks shall not be longer or wider than 660 feet unless specifically
approved by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 154.109  LOTS.
   (A)   Size requirements. All lots shown on the subdivision plat shall
conform to the minimum requirements of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances for the zone in which the subdivision is to
be located and to any requirements that may be needed for adequate sewage
disposal.
   (B)   Frontage. All lots shall abut a dedicated and improved town street or
shall have access to a dedicated and improved street through a private access
right-of-way approved by the Planning Commission. Streets shall be improved to
the width and in the manner required by the town standards.
   (C)   Lot lines. Lot lines shall be as nearly as possible at right angles
with the adjacent street.
   (D)   Remnants of lots. All remnants of lots less than minimum size left
over after subdividing a larger tract shall be added to adjacent lots rather
than allowed to remain as lot remnants.
   (E)   Further division prohibited. No plat hereinafter approved by the town
and recorded in the office of the County Recorder may be further subdivided or
split in any manner without having first received approval for an amended plat
by the Planning Commission and Town Council. Such plat shall contain the
signatures of all owners of record and all contract owners having property
within the bounds of the subdivision prior to receiving approval from the town
to record the amended plat. Said plat shall comply with all other provisions of
this chapter that may be applicable at the time of approval of the amendment.
No lot in any recorded subdivision may be further divided or sold off in any
manner.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
CHAPTER 155:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Authority
   
155.002   Short title
   
155.003   Purpose
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.015   Administrative Official
   
155.016   Administrative liability
   
155.017   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses
   
155.018   Violations
   
155.019   Permits and certificates; compliance
   
155.020   Variances
Amendments
   
155.035   Statement of policy
   
155.036   Application for amendment
   
155.037   Review of application
   
155.038   Public hearing
   
155.039   Findings and recommendations
   
155.040   Decision of Town Council
   
155.041   Diagram
Board of Adjustment
   
155.055   Membership; appointment; term; removal and vacancies
   
155.056   Officers
   
155.057   Powers and duties
   
155.058   Meetings
   
155.059   Minutes
   
155.060   Quorum
   
155.061   Action taken
   
155.062   Vote necessary for reversal
   
155.063   Appeals to Board
   
155.064   Stay of proceedings pending appeal
   
155.065   Decision on appeal
   
155.066   Rules
   
155.067   Judicial review of Board’s decision
Planning Commission
   
155.080   Memberships; officers
   
155.081   Meetings
   
155.082   Agenda for regular meetings
   
155.083   Minutes and records
   
155.084   Hearings
   
155.085   Quorum
Districts; Map
   
155.100   Classifications
   
155.101   Map incorporated
   
155.102   Rules for interpretation of boundaries
   
155.103   Application of regulations
Zoning Districts
   
155.115   A, Agricultural District
   
155.116   RR, Rural Residential District
   
155.117   GC, General Commercial District
Mobile Home Parks
   
155.130   Purpose
   
155.131   Permitted uses
   
155.132   Lot and yard areas
   
155.133   Height restrictions
   
155.134   Utilities
   
155.135   Regulations
Non-Conforming Uses and Structures
   
155.150   Intent and scope
   
155.151   Non-conforming lots of record
   
155.152   Non-conforming uses of land or land with minor structures
Supplementary Regulations
   
155.165   Visibility at intersections in residential districts
   
155.166   Fences
   
155.167   Height regulations; exceptions
   
155.168   Yard encroachments
   
155.169   Accessory buildings
   
155.170   Structures to have access
   
155.171   Unlicensed vehicles or trailers
   
155.172   Performance standards
   
155.173   Use of public right-of-way
   
155.174   Outdoor storage and waste disposal
Home Occupations
   
155.185   Definition
   
155.186   Permit and license required
   
155.187   Application procedure
   
155.188   Fees
   
155.189   Conditions
   
155.190   Signature of awareness from neighbors
   
155.191   Revocation
   
155.192   Appeal
Signs
   
155.205   Scope
   
155.206   General requirements
   
155.207   Exemptions
   
155.208   Prohibited signs; exceptions
Parking and Loading
   
155.220   Parking spaces; driveways
   
155.221   Request for reduction
   
155.222   Employee parking
   
155.223   Unusual or extreme circumstances
   
155.224   Minimum standards
Conditional Uses
   
155.235   Purpose
   
155.236   Permit required
   
155.237   Application
   
155.238   Fee
   
155.239   Development plan
   
155.240   Planning Commission action
   
155.241   Appeal to Town Council
   
155.242   Expansion of conditional use
   
155.243   Inspection
   
155.244   Time limitation
   
155.245   Signature of awareness from neighbors
   
155.246   Revocation and/or reinstatement
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001  AUTHORITY.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter is adopted pursuant to and in
accordance with the authority vested in the Town Council under UCA §§ 10-9a-101
et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.002  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Zoning Ordinance
of Oak City, Utah”.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.003  PURPOSE.
   These regulations have been made in accordance with the policies and
recommendations set forth in a duly adopted general plan and have been enacted:
   (A)   To lessen congestion in the streets by coordinating land use with
transportation policies;
   (B)   To secure safety from fire, floods and other hazards;
   (C)   To provide for adequate provision of needed public facilities to serve
present and future population;
   (D)   To conserve the value of buildings and land by ensuring a compatible
arrangement of land uses; and
   (E)   To otherwise promote the public health and general welfare of the
community.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.015  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Official designated; assistants. An Administrative Official designated
by the Town Council shall administer and enforce this chapter. He or she may be
provided with the assistance of such other persons as the Town Council may
direct.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Administrative Official shall have the powers
and duty to:
      (1)   Establish and administer rules and procedures for conducting the
duties outlined in this section;
      (2)   Receive and promptly review all applications for building permits
and/or certificates of zoning compliance for construction, alteration or change
of use or occupancy of land or structures and approve or disapprove the same,
based on their conformance with the provisions of this chapter. If an
application is denied, he or she shall specify in writing the reasons for such
denial;
      (3)   Receive and review copies of all notices of appeals to the Board of
Adjustment;
      (4)   Conduct investigations or inspections of land, premises, buildings,
structures, construction projects in progress, uses and occupancies to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. With the aid of the Town
Council and/or Planning Commission, he or she shall establish rules and
procedures for the conduct of these investigations;
      (5)   Upon discovery of a violation of the provisions of this chapter, he
or she shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violation,
indicating the nature of the violation and the action necessary to correct it;
      (6)   Upon reasonable cause, he or she shall order discontinuance of
illegal use of land, buildings or structures, or of illegal additions,
alterations or structural changes, discontinuance of any illegal work in
progress, or shall take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure
compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions;
      (7)   Participate in meetings, where deemed necessary, of the Board of
Adjustment, Planning Commission or Town Council and, when required, attend
public hearings relating to zoning issues; and
      (8)   Maintain such records and files as may be necessary in the
efficient conduct of the above duties, including records of all building
permits, certificates of zoning compliance and the like.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.016  ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   The town shall hold harmless the Planning Commission and the Administrative
Official and their official agents and representatives, when acting in good
faith and without malice, from all personal liability for any damage that may
accrue to any person or property as a result of any act required by this
chapter or for the omission of any act on the part of the Planning Commission,
the Administrative Official or his, her or their authorized agents in the
discharge of his, her or their duties hereunder. Any suit brought against the
town because of any such act or omission in the carrying out of the provisions
of this chapter shall be defended by the town’s Legal Department through final
determination of such proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.017  SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   The Town Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and expenses
and a collection procedure for building permits, certificates of zoning
compliance, appeals and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The schedule
of fees shall be posted in the office of the Administrative Official, and may
be altered or amended only by the Town Council. Until all applicable fees,
charges and expenses have been paid in full, no action will be taken on any
application or appeal.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.018  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notification of violation. No person shall locate, erect, construct,
reconstruct, enlarge, change, maintain or use any building or use any land in
violation of this chapter. Whenever the Administrative Official discovers any
violation of this chapter, he or she shall notify in writing the person
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation, the
action necessary to correct it and the time by which the violation must be
corrected. After any such order has been served, no work shall proceed on any
structure or tract of land covered by such an order except to correct such
violation or to comply with the order.
   (B)   Written complaint by any person. Any other person discovering a
violation may file a written complaint with the Administrative Official stating
fully the causes and basis thereof. The Administrative Official shall record
properly such complaint, immediately investigate and take action thereon as
provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.019  PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Building permits.
      (1)   A building permit shall be required if building a structure with a
total footprint greater than 200 square feet and/or that exceeds 12 feet in
height.
      (2)   Required. It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation or
filling of any lot for construction of any building, or to commence
construction of any building, or to commence the moving of any building, or the
alteration of any building, or to commence the development of land for a use
not requiring a building, until the Administrative Official has issued a
building permit for such work as required by the Uniform Building Code. No
building permit shall be issued by the Administrative Official except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter and the Uniform Building Code,
unless he or she receives a written order from the Board of Adjustment as
provided by this chapter.
      (3)   Application. All applications for building permits shall be
accompanied by plans in triplicate, drawn to scale. They shall show, where
pertinent:
         (a)   Actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon;
         (b)   The exact sizes and locations of buildings already existing on
subject property and adjoining properties, with utility lines, poles and the
like, fully dimensioned;
         (c)   Location and dimensions of the proposed building or alteration,
including the location and dimensions of all signs; and
         (d)   Motor vehicle access, circulation patterns, with individual
parking stalls and curb, gutter and sidewalk location.
      (4)   Additional information. The application shall include such other
information as lawfully may be required by the Administrative Official,
including existing or proposed uses of the building and land; the number of
families, housekeeping units or rental units the building is designed to
accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and such other matters as may be
necessary to determine conformance with this chapter.
      (5)   Expiration and cancellation.
         (a)   Work commenced within six months. If the work described in any
building permit has not begun within six months from the date of issuance
thereof, said permit shall expire, unless an extension is asked for and
approved. It shall be canceled by the Administrative Official, and written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected.
         (b)   Completion within two years. If the work described in any
building permit has not been substantially completed within two years of the
date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and be canceled by the
Administrative Official, and written notice thereof shall be given to the
persons affected, together with notice that further work as described in the
canceled permit shall not proceed unless and until a new building permit has
been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-1)
   (B)   Certificate of zoning compliance. It shall be unlawful to use or
occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or
part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed, converted or wholly or partly
altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a permit has been issued
therefor by the Administrative Official stating that the proposed use of the
building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter. The certificate
of zoning compliance shall not be valid unless accompanied by a certificate of
occupancy issued by the Chief Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-2)
   (C)   Compliance with approved plans and applications required.
      (1)   Building permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the
basis of plans and applications approved by the Administrative Official
authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set forth in such approved
plans and applications, and no other use, arrangement or construction.
      (2)   Use, arrangement or construction at variance with that authorized
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-10-3)
(Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001; Ord. 2019-02, 11-21-2019)   Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.020  VARIANCES.
   (A)   Authorization by Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment may authorize, upon appeal, such variances
from the terms of this chapter as shall not be contrary to the public interest.
      (2)   The purpose of any variance shall be to modify the strict
application of the requirements of this chapter where it can be shown that by
reason of exceptional topography or other extraordinary or exceptional
circumstances, literal enforcement of the terms of this chapter will result in
an unnecessary hardship to the extent that the property might be prohibited
from being used in a manner similar to other property in the same district.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-1)
   (B)   Rules and procedures.
      (1)   Denial of building permit. Appeals seeking a variance shall be made
only after the denial of a building permit by the Administrative Official. The
following rules and procedures shall govern the process of such appeals.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit to the Administrative Official a
request for variance on forms provided for this purpose, along with a copy of
the denial of the building permit.
         (b)   The Administrative Official shall, upon receipt of a request for
variance, transmit the request, a copy of the denial and any other pertinent
information to the Board of Adjustment for its consideration.
         (c)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time and place
for a public hearing. Public notice shall be given of all hearings and shall
consist of the posting of a sign by the designated town official on the
affected property at least five days prior to the date of the hearing and one
publication of a notice by the town in a newspaper of general circulation at
least five days prior to the hearing. Both the sign and the newspaper notice
shall identify the applicant, shall briefly state the nature of the appeal of
the variance sought and shall give the date, time and place of the hearing. All
hearings shall be open to the public. Due notice of the hearing shall also be
given to all parties of interest, including the Administrative Official and the
Planning Commission Chairperson.
         (d)   The Board of Adjustment shall vote on the decision. The
concurring vote of three members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision or determination of the Administrative Official.
         (e)   The Board of Adjustment shall render a written decision on each
case heard within 30 days of the hearing. Where the request for variance is
approved, such written decision shall demonstrate the following:
            1.   Exceptional topography, or extraordinary or exceptional
circumstances exist which are peculiar to land, structures or buildings
involved which are not applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in
the same district;
            2.   Owing to extraordinary circumstances, literal interpretation
of the provisions of this chapter would deprive the applicant of rights
commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same district under the terms of
this chapter;
            3.   The extraordinary circumstances were not created by the owner
of the property and do not represent a general condition of the district in
which the property is located;
            4.   The variance will not authorize a use other than those
specifically enumerated in the zoning district in which the variance is sought;
            5.   The circumstances found to constitute a hardship cannot be
practically corrected;
            6.   The variance granted is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the land, building or structure;
            7.   The granting of the variance would not be out of harmony with
the intent and purpose of this chapter or the general plan of the town, or any
portion thereof; and
            8.   The variance would not injure the land value, or use of, or
prevent the access of light and air to the adjacent properties or to the area
in general, or would not be detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of
the public.
      (2)   Non-conforming use not grounds for issuance. Existence of a non-
conforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in the same
district, or of non-conforming use of lands, structures or buildings in other
districts, shall not be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
      (3)   Request denied. Where the request for variance is denied, the
written decision must be accompanied by reasons therefor, and be based on
findings of fact.
      (4)   Request approved.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall cause a description of each
variance granted to be filed in the office of the County Recorder with a legal
description of the affected property.
         (b)   The description shall include the nature of the variance, any
time limitations and any special conditions imposed by the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 10-11-2)
   (C)   Diagram. The following diagram applies to the provisions of this
chapter:
 
Proceedings Before Board of Adjustment on Variances
Submittal of application
Transmittal to Board
Public hearing
Vote on decision
Written decision from Board within 30 days
Recording of variance
 
(Prior Code, § 10-11-3)
(Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
AMENDMENTS
§ 155.035  STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   It is the intent of the town that this chapter and the district zoning
map has been established for the purpose of promoting sound and desirable
development and for maintaining stable land use patterns. In harmony with this
purpose, this chapter and map shall not be amended except to:
      (1)   Correct an obvious error or oversight in the regulations; or
      (2)   To recognize changing conditions in the town, which require that
amendments be adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety and
general welfare.
   (B)   In conformity with this statement of policy, amendments may be
initiated by any person, firm, corporation or bureau of the governing body of
the town in the manner hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.036  APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Submission; types of amendments. The petitioner shall submit an
application for amendment to the Town Council on forms provided for that
purpose. The two types of amendments which may be requested are:
      (1)   Language amendments which seek to change the wording of the zoning
ordinance; and
      (2)   Map amendments which seek to change the district boundary lines on
the district zoning map.
   (B)   Required information. When applying for an amendment to the district
zoning map, the petitioner shall file, along with his or her application, the
following information:
      (1)   A legal description and a map of the area sought to be rezoned;
      (2)   The existing zoning district designation and the proposed district
designation; and
      (3)   The names and addresses of all owners of land within the area
proposed for rezoning and within 140 feet of the outer limits of the area
proposed for rezoning. In determining the 140 feet, the width of any
intervening street or alley shall not be included.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.037  REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Administrative official. The Administrative Official shall review the
application for correctness and completeness and shall report to the Town
Council concerning the nature of the application and the date of its filing.
The Administrative Official shall refer a copy of the application to the
Planning Commission for its recommendation and may refer a copy to any other
agency which might be affected by the amendment for comment.
   (B)   Other agencies. Agencies which receive copies of the application for
amendment shall respond within 30 days from the date on which the application
was sent. If no response is received, it will be assumed that such agency shall
have no objection to the proposed amendment.
   (C)   Planning Commission. The Administrative Official shall assemble and
transmit all comments, including those of the Plan Review Board, to the
Planning Commission for its consideration.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.038  PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Town Council shall fix a reasonable time and place for a public hearing
at which all interested parties shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice
of the time and place of the public hearing and the nature of the amendment
sought shall be given by two publications in a newspaper of general circulation
in the town at least 15 days before the date of such hearing. All property
owners within 140 feet of the proposed rezoning shall be notified of the public
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.039  FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
   Following the public hearing, the Town Council shall consider the amendment.
The hearing may be continued, if necessary, without republication of notice.
Any recommendations of the Planning Commission are advisory only, and the Town
Council may overrule the recommendations of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.040  DECISION OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   Following the public hearing, the Town Council shall approve, disapprove or
modify and approve, the proposal before it. Town Council action on amendments
to this chapter or to the zoning map requires the affirmative vote of three or
more Town Council members. The Town Council may act on the petition at the time
of the hearing or at subsequent meetings.
(Prior Code, § 10-12-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.041  DIAGRAM.
   The following diagram applies to the provisions of this chapter:
 
Amendment Procedures
Submittal of application
Transmittal to Plan Review Board, Planning Commission and Town Council
Public hearing
Approval of Planning Commission within 30 days
Decision of Town Council within 30 days
 
(Prior Code, § 10-12-7)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 155.055  MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM; REMOVAL AND VACANCIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members, each to be appointed
by the Mayor with the advise and consent of the Town Council for the term of
five years; provided that, the term of one member shall expire each year. Any
member may be removed for cause by the appointing authority upon written
charges and after public hearing, if such public hearing is requested.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term
becomes vacant. One member, but not more than one, of the Planning Commission
shall be a member of the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.056  OFFICERS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairperson and a Chairperson pro
tempore from among its members, who shall serve for a term of one year.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.057  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   (A)   Appeals. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is
error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Administrative Official in the enforcement of this chapter or of any ordinance
adopted pursuant thereto;
   (B)   Exceptions. To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
chapter upon which such board is required to pass under the provisions of this
chapter; and
   (C)   Variances. To authorize upon appeal such variance from the terms of
this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to
special conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will
result in unnecessary hardship; provided, that the spirit of this chapter shall
be observed and substantial justice done. Before any variance may be
authorized, however, it shall be shown that:
      (1)   The variance will not substantially adversely affect the general
plan or this chapter and that adherence to the strict letter of this chapter
will cause difficulties and hardships, the imposition of which upon the
petitioner is unnecessary in order to carry out the general purpose of the
General Plan;
      (2)   Special circumstances are attached to the property covered by the
application which do not generally apply to other property in the same
district; and
      (3)   That because of said special circumstances, property covered by
application is deprived of privileges possessed by other properties in the same
district; and that the granting of the variance is essential to the enjoyment
of a substantial property right that is possessed by other property in the same
district.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.058  MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson, and at such other times as the Board may determine. The
Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the public. Notice of
Board of Adjustment meetings shall be mailed to all property owners appearing
on the latest ownership plat in the County Records Office within a 300-foot
radius of any property for which an action of the Board of Adjustment is being
requested. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant for such action to
provide the stamped, addressed envelopes necessary to provide such notice.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.059  MINUTES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the
vote of each member on each question, or if absent or failure to vote,
indicating such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be filed with the Town Clerk and shall be
public record.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.060  QUORUM.
   A quorum shall be considered three members of the Board of Adjustment, and
no evidence shall be presented to the Board unless a quorum is present.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.061  ACTION TAKEN.
   Approval or disapproval, rejection or modified approval of an application
shall be based upon findings which shall be made a part of the official record.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-7)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.062  VOTE NECESSARY FOR REVERSAL.
   The concurring vote of three members of the Board of Adjustment shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement or determination of any such
Administrative Official, or to decide in favor of the appellant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any
variation in the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-8)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.063  APPEALS TO BOARD.
   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved or
by any officer, department or board of the town affected by any decision of the
administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within 15 days as provided
by the rules of the Board by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is
taken and with the Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-9)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.064  STAY OF PROCEEDINGS PENDING APPEAL.
   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of
Adjustment after the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of
Adjustment or by a court of record on application, on notice to the
Administrative Official from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-10)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.065  DECISION ON APPEAL.
   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board of Adjustment may, in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement decision or determination appealed
from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought
to be made and, to that end, shall have all the powers of the officer from whom
the appeal is taken.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-11)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.066  RULES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the regulation of its
procedure and the conduct of its duties not inconsistent with the provisions of
this chapter or of the state law. Such rules, to become effective, shall be
first approved by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-12)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.067  JUDICIAL REVIEW OF BOARD’S DECISION.
   The town or any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustment
may have and maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction; provided, petition for such relief is presented to the
court within 30 days after the filing of such decision in the office of the
Board.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-13)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 155.080  MEMBERSHIP; OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five regular members, which
shall be appointed by the Town Council. Alternate non-voting members shall
include the Mayor and one Council member. The members shall serve a five-year
term with one Commission member being replaced each year. The senior
Commissioner will become the new Chairperson each year.
   (B)   The officers of the Planning Commission shall be a Chairperson and a
Vice Chairperson. In the absence of both the Chairperson and the Vice
Chairperson, the members present at such a meeting shall elect a Chairperson
pro tempore. The Chairperson pro tempore shall serve only for the meeting at
which he or she is appointed or until relieved of the Chair by the Chairperson
or Vice Chairperson.
   (C)   The Town Clerk will act as secretary to the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.081  MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular. The regular meetings of the Commission shall be held the
first Wednesday of every quarter; providing that:
      (1)   All meetings have been advertized and posted as required by law, by
the Town Clerk;
      (2)   A quorum of the commission at any regular meeting may, by formal
action, substitute another day for a regular meeting for the following quarter;
      (3)   If, for any reason, the business to be considered at the meeting
cannot be completed, the commission may designate the time for an adjourned
meeting to consider the unfinished business. Such action shall serve an
adequate notice to those present at such meeting and the Town Clerk shall
advise absentee members of the adjourned meeting; and
      (4)   In the event of lack of quorum at a regular meeting, the
Chairperson or Vice Chairperson or Chairperson pro tempore, in that order,
shall adjourn the meeting to another date in the same calendar month. Such
action shall serve an adequate notice to those present at such meeting, and the
Town Clerk shall advise absentee members of the adjourned meeting.
   (B)   Special. Special meetings may be called:
      (1)   By action of the Commission at a regular or adjourned meeting;
      (2)   By order of the Chairperson or, in his or her absence, by the Vice
Chairperson; and/or
      (3)   By written request to three or more members of the Commission.
Written notice for special meetings shall be provided by the Town Clerk. In the
event of emergency, a telephone notice and a hand- delivered written notice
shall be given to each Commission member. Action on matters at special meetings
shall be limited to subjects announced in the call for such special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.082  AGENDA FOR REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   Agenda items to be considered at the regular meetings will be
submitted to the Town Clerk not less than three days prior to the meeting. A
copy of the agenda for regular meetings of the Planning Commission shall be
provided to each member not less than two days prior to the date of the meeting
at which such agenda is to be considered.
   (B)   None of the following subject matters shall be placed on the agenda
for any given meeting which are not formally filed with the Town Clerk in the
manner provided by law or which were not initiated by motion of the Planning
Commission more than three days prior to the meeting at which such matters are
to be considered:
      (1)   Subdivision plats;
      (2)   Applications for amendments to zoning or other official plan
ordinances;
      (3)   Applications for variances;
      (4)   Application for, or proceedings initiated by the Planning
Commission for the consideration of the general plan or elements thereof, or
precise plans, or any amendments thereof; and
      (5)   Any matter which, by law, is required to be considered at a public
hearing.
   (C)   When any matter is filed with the Town Clerk for consideration and
action by the Planning Commission which is of concern to other city
departments, the Town Clerk shall notify the Department and request a report or
recommendation on the impending matter. The Town Clerk shall provide any
information or materials required to clearly indicate the action under
consideration. The Town Clerk shall present the reports to the Commission at
the time the matter is before it.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.083  MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to keep the minutes of all
official meetings of the Planning Commission, including public hearings whether
presided over by the Commission as a whole or by a designated member or
members. It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to maintain all of the records
of the Planning Commission, including all applications made under provisions of
the law and the complete files of the proceedings and actions taken in
connection therewith.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall, not less than two calendar days prior to any
regular meeting of the Planning Commission, transmit to each member of the
Commission a full and complete copy of the minutes of the previous meeting,
including copies of any resolutions referred to therein.
   (C)   Formal resolutions considered by the Planning Commission shall
constitute a part of the minutes of the meeting at which such resolution was
considered; provided, the text of any such resolution may be considered as
being contained in the minutes when such minutes make proper reference to such
resolutions.
   (D)   All resolutions shall be clearly identified by number, nature of
subject matter and by date, so as to be clearly identified by reference, and
each such resolution shall contain as part thereof a record of the names of the
Commissioners voting aye, the names of the Commissioners voting no, and the
names of the commissioners absent:
 
Moved by Commissioner                                      seconded by Commissioner            
                                       that an appropriate resolution to be numbered            
                 be adopted (approving, conditionally approving or denying, as the case may be,
and referring to the application, precise plan, general plan, or any other subject matter
involved) and that the Town Clerk be directed to draft such resolution incorporating therein the
findings of fact, the nature of the action, the specific conditions, if any, and all pertinent
matters developed at the hearing
 
   (E)   It shall be the commission’s responsibility to make the
determinations, identify the major findings of fact and indicate the conditions
to be imposed, if any. In making a motion, the commissioner should, as far as
possible, recite those things. Other members can, at that time, add items and
all shall be combined in proper form in the resolution.
   (F)   When made, seconded and passed, such action shall be deemed to
constitute conclusive determination as to the import of the action, such as to
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove. It shall be the responsibility of
the Town Clerk or the person designated in the motion to prepare the exact text
of such resolutions in keeping with the directions incorporated in the motion,
and such resolution shall by reference be incorporated as a part of the minutes
as provided below.
   (G)   All actions of the Commission, whether by motion or by resolution,
shall be considered conclusive as to the general import as of the date of such
action; provided that, such action, as to details, shall be subject to
correction at the time of considering and approving the minutes of meetings at
which such actions are taken, and such correction and conclusive approval shall
apply also to the text of resolutions incorporated by reference in such
minutes.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.084  HEARINGS.
   (A)   Hearings conducted by the Commission shall conform to the provisions
of the law in the matter of public notice, time, number and reporting. A formal
hearing before the Commission which for any reason cannot be completed at the
time and place originally advertised, may be adjourned to a later date and the
announcement of such adjournment and the time and place of such adjourned
meeting shall constitute a sufficient notice to all parties concerned.
   (B)   Any member, or members designated by the Commission for the purpose,
shall be authorized and qualified to preside over and conduct any formal
hearing; provided that, the purpose of such hearing shall be confined to the
taking and recording of all pertinent testimony, and the member or members
conducting such hearings shall summarize the testimony introduced and render
their opinions thereon to the full Commission. Decisions on all matters heard
at such hearings before a member, or members, shall be made only at, and by, a
regular or adjourned or special meeting of the Commission.
   (C)   In the absence of the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson or a member of
the Commission specifically designated to preside at any hearing, any member of
the Commission present at such time and place of hearing may represent the
Planning Commission and conduct the hearing in the manner proscribed in
division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.085  QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the conducting of routine business, and a majority of members present at a
meeting shall be sufficient to act, except when:
   (A)   Actions on “official” matters shall be decided only by a two-thirds’
majority vote of the full membership of the Commission. Such actions shall
include approval of any general plan or element thereof, precise plan or
amendments thereof, or changes in the zoning ordinance text; and
   (B)   Action on subdivisions and routine matters other than those specified
in division (A) above may be decided by a majority (four) of the full
membership of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
DISTRICTS; MAP
§ 155.100  CLASSIFICATIONS.
   In order to effectively carry out the provisions of this chapter, the land
within the corporate limits of the town shall be divided into the following
zoning districts:
   (A)   A, Agricultural District;
   (B)   RR, Rural Residential District; and
   (C)   GC, General Commercial District.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.101  MAP INCORPORATED.
   Boundaries of each of the said zones are hereby established as described
herein or as shown on the map entitled “Zoning Map of Oak City”, which map is
on file in the town offices, and all boundaries shown thereon are made by this
reference as much a part of this chapter as if fully described and detailed
herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.102  RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Centerlines of streets. Boundaries indicated as approximately
following the centerlines of streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to
follow such centerlines.
   (B)   Lot lines. Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot
lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (C)   Town limits. Boundaries indicated as approximately following town
limits shall be construed as following such town limits.
   (D)   Centerlines of waters. Boundaries indicated as approximately following
the centerlines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or other bodies of water
shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   (E)   Interpretation by Town Council. In circumstances not covered by
divisions (A) through (D) above, the Town Council shall interpret the district
boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.103  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   Conformance. No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in
conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located.
   (B)   Buildings or structures. No building or other structure shall
hereafter be erected or altered:
      (1)   To exceed the height or bulk;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces than herein required, or in any other manner contrary to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Yards and open spaces. No part of a yard or other open space, or off-
street parking or loading space required about or in connection with any
building for the purpose of complying with this chapter, shall be included as
part of a yard, open space or off-street parking or loading space similarly
required for any other building.
   (D)   Reduction of area or dimension. No yard or lot existing at the time of
passage of the ordinance codified herein shall be reduced in dimension or area
below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after
the effective date hereof shall meet at least the minimum requirements
established by this chapter.
   (E)   Territory annexed. All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the
town shall be designated at the time of annexation for land use and zoning.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 155.115  A, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Protection. The establishment of the Agricultural District is
intended to allow for and protect agricultural uses within the town by
controlling density and land coverage and providing for compatible land uses.
Its formulation is further intended to protect nearby residential uses from
possible objectionable effects of certain agricultural operations such as
livestock raising and storage of fertilizer.
      (2)   May be rezoned. As the need and demand for additional land suitable
for urban development is determined, selected portions of this district may be
rezoned for more intensive forms of development.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-1)
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Accessory buildings and uses clearly incidental to and commonly
associated with the operation of the permitted use. Such accessory uses do not
include permanent residential occupancy, except by owners or persons employed
on the premises and their immediate family;
      (2)   Campgrounds;
      (3)   Commercial agriculture, dairying, poultry and livestock raising;
provided that, buildings used for housing fowl or animals, storing grain or
feed, or processing products shall not be located closer than 200 feet to any
property line;
      (4)   Commercial kennels for the raising, boarding and training of small
animals; provided that, no portion of a building, structure, outdoor run or pen
used to house or exercise such animals shall be located closer than 200 feet of
any property line;
      (5)   Essential public utility and public service installations. Such
uses shall not include business offices, repair, sales or storage facilities;
      (6)   Greenhouses or plant nurseries;
      (7)   Home occupations;
      (8)   Non-commercial agriculture and poultry, and horse and livestock
raising as an accessory use to a single-family dwelling; provided that, all
related accessory buildings are located in the side or rear yard;
      (9)   Private country clubs, golf courses, swimming pools, park areas,
greenhouses and nurseries;
      (10)   Privately operated day nurseries, preschools and kindergartens;
provided that, any play area is enclosed on all sides to a height of at least
four feet;
      (11)   Public or private schools;
      (12)   Public parks, playgrounds, community buildings and similar public
service facilities;
      (13)   Radio and television transmitting stations and towers, but not
including administrative offices and broadcast studios;
      (14)   Railway right-of-way;
      (15)   Riding stables or academies; provided that, any structure, pen or
corral housing animals (but not including grazing areas) shall not be closer
than 200 feet to any property line;
      (16)   Signs for identification; provided, each use has not more than one
such sign per frontage and that such a sign does not exceed ten square feet in
area;
      (17)   Single-family dwellings;
      (18)   Transmission line, station and tower; and
      (19)   Veterinary clinics, including observation pens.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-2)
   (C)   Lot and yard areas; height restrictions.
 
Maximum height of structures When a building or structure is within 150 feet of
                             a residential district zone, 35 feet
Minimum area of zone lot     4 acres
Minimum lot width            200 feet
Minimum rear yard            40 feet
Minimum setback              30 feet
Minimum side yard            15 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 10-6-3)
   (D)   Additional regulations. See also the following provisions of this
chapter:
      (1)   Sign regulations, §§
155.205 through
155.208 of this chapter;
      (2)   Parking regulations, §§
155.220 through
155.224 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Supplementary regulations, §§
155.165 through
155.174 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-4)
(Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.116  RR, RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Rural Residential Zone is intended as a permanent
residential district for those areas of the community where it is desirable to
maintain residential densities. Although this district is intended primarily
for residential development, it is recognized that agriculture and the raising
of poultry and livestock is desired by some property owners and is acceptable
with appropriate safeguards for nearby residences.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A permanent structure detached from a principle or
primary building located on the same lot and incidental and subordinate to the
principle building or use. Including, but not limited to, a detached private
garage, storage shed, workshop, greenhouse, gazebo, apartment and the like.
      MAJOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. An accessory structure with a total footprint
greater than 200 square feet and/or that exceeds 12 feet in height.
      MINOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. An accessory structure with a total footprint
of less than 200 square feet and which does not exceed 12 feet in height.
      MOBILE HOME. A modular unit built on a chassis, which is eight body feet
or more in width and 35 body feet or more in length, which is designed to be
used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities. The type of foundation requirements will be determined by
the town’s designated Building Inspector.
      RECREATIONAL COACH. A vehicle, such as a pickup truck, camper, motor
home, fifth wheel, travel trailer or other vehicle with or without motive
power, designed and/or constructed to be used for vacation or recreational
purposes. RECREATIONAL VEHICLES are not permitted as dwelling units, except in
an RV park.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-2)
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Accessory buildings and uses clearly incidental and commonly
associated with the operation of the permitted use such as private garages,
greenhouses, swimming pools and the like, but not including residential
occupancy;
      (2)   Cemeteries;
      (3)   Churches and similar places of worship;
      (4)   Essential public utility and public service installations. Such use
shall not include business offices, repair, sales or storage facilities;
      (5)   Home occupations;
      (6)   Libraries;
      (7)   Personal and family agricultural uses only for dairying, poultry
and livestock raising; provided that, buildings used for housing fowl or
animals, storing grain or feed shall not be located closer than 50 feet from
any neighboring inhabited family dwelling;
      (8)   Privately-owned community centers operated on a non-profit basis;
      (9)   Public or private schools;
      (10)   Public parks, playgrounds, community buildings and similar public
service facilities serving residential areas;
      (11)   Signs for identification, provided each use has not more than one
such sign per frontage and that such a sign does not exceed ten square feet in
area;
      (12)   Single-family dwelling. May include the rooming and/or boarding of
up to two persons, provided no separate kitchen is involved; and
      (13)   Multiple-family dwellings to consist of duplexes only.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-3)
   (D)   Lot and yard areas; height restrictions.
Maximum height of structure            35 feet
Minimum area of zone lot               RR-1 0.4 acre
                                       RR-2 1.0 acres
Minimum lot width                      100 feet   
Minimum rear yard
   Principal structure              40 feet
   Major accessory structure        4 feet (more than 200 sq. ft. or 12 ft.
                                       in height)*
   Minor accessory structure        0 feet (less than 200 sq. ft. or 12 ft.
                                       in height)*
   Habitable accessory structure    12 feet
*The requirements of division (E) below shall also be met.
Minimum front setback (all structures) 25 feet
Minimum side yard
   Principal structures             12 feet
   Major accessory structures       4 feet (more than 200 sq. ft. or 12 ft.
                                       in height)*
   Minor accessory structures       0 feet (less than 200 sq. ft. or 12 ft.
                                       in height) *
   Habitable accessory structure    12 feet
*The requirements of division (E) below shall also be met.
 
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-4)
   (E)   Additional regulations.
      (1)   Temporary placement of mobile homes. No “mobile home”, as defined
in division (B) above, shall be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent
residential purposes in any district, except within an approved mobile home
park and except as otherwise provided herein. Temporary placement of a mobile
home on a residential lot may be permitted by a temporary conditional use
permit which is subject to the time limitations stated in this chapter. A
temporary conditional use permit for the placement of a mobile home on a
residential lot will be issued only for lots upon which a permanent dwelling is
being constructed and for which a valid building permit has been issued.
      (2)   Temporary placement of recreational coaches. No “recreational
coach”, as defined in division (B) above, shall be located, placed, used or
occupied for permanent residential purposes in any district. Temporary
placement of a recreational coach on a residential lot may be permitted by a
temporary conditional use permit which is subject to the time limitations
stated in this chapter. A temporary conditional use permit for the placement of
a recreational coach on a residential lot will be issued only for lots upon
which a permanent dwelling is being constructed and for which a valid building
permit has been issued.
      (3)   Accessory structures.
         (a)   No accessory structure shall be built less than 12 feet from the
principle structure or, if built within 12 feet of the principle structure,
then the accessory structure shall leave a distance of at least 12 feet of side
yard or rear yard setback.
         (b)   No portion of any accessory building shall be allowed to extend
over any property line.
         (c)   No storm water runoff from accessory buildings shall be allowed
to run onto adjacent property.
      (4)   Chapter provisions. See also the following provisions of this
chapter:
         (a)   Sign regulations, §§
155.205 through
155.208 of this chapter;
         (b)   Parking regulations, §§
155.220 through
155.224 of this chapter; and
         (c)   Supplementary regulations, §§
155.165 through
155.174 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-7A-5)
(Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001; Ord. 2009-02, passed 10-15-2009; Ord. 2019-01,
11-21-2019)
§ 155.117  GC, GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Policy. Commercial uses, where permitted, should be compatible  with 
the  rural  character  of  the  town. All commercial uses are conditional and
subject to review and approval by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-8A-1)
   (B)   Restrictions; commercial activities.
      (1)   Large industrial and manufacturing land uses shall be prohibited.
Light industrial and manufacturing are to be discouraged. Only those industrial
and manufacturing enterprises that meet cottage industry standards will be
allowed upon approval and permitting of the Town Council. Uses which cause air,
water and noise pollution or are visually unappealing or cause a nuisance will
not be permitted.
      (2)   Commercial activities may be allowed as conditional uses within
other zones, subject to the conditional use review and approval process.
(Prior Code, § 10-8A-2)
   (C)   Acceptable uses. The types of commercial activity most compatible for
development are:
      (1)   Agricultural enterprises;
      (2)   Auto repair service;
      (3)   Beauty salon/barber;
      (4)   Gas station;
      (5)   Grocery store; and
      (6)   Home occupations.
(Prior Code, § 10-8A-3)
(Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 155.130  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of these regulations is to provide an area where mobile
homes can be located within the city limits and to provide a place for low
income housing.
   (B)   This unit is intended to allow for mobile homes in a planned
environment.
   (C)   All mobile homes shall be located in mobile home parks.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.131  PERMITTED USES.
   Mobile homes (coaches) single- or double-wide. Residential use only, parking
with a storage unit. Visitor parking area. Club house for recreation. Laundry
area for park residents and visitors. Swimming pool and spa. Administrative
spaces for park use only.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.132  LOT AND YARD AREAS.
 
Minimum lot length 100 feet
Minimum lot size   5,000 square feet
Minimum lot width  50 feet
Minimum rear yard  40 feet
Minimum setback    25 feet
Minimum side yard  12 feet; no exceptions to side yard so emergency vehicles
                   can get in and out
 
(Prior Code, § 10-9-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.133  HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
 
Maximum height coach 1 story
 
(Prior Code, § 10-9-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.134  UTILITIES.
   All utilities will be front lot line. No exceptions. Gas, power, water,
phone, sewer and storm drains will all be underground. Gas and power will be in
separate trenches with a minimum of a three-foot separation of undisturbed
earth, if any utilities share a trench, it will have a two-foot selection side
to side.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.135  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Fencing. All mobile home parks must have a six-foot cinder block type
fence surrounding the entire outside perimeter of the park.
   (B)   Building permit; inspection. All mobile homes must have a building
permit and have passed a final inspection before being occupied.
   (C)   Speed limit signs. Must have posted speed limit signs.
   (D)   Speed bumps. May have speed bumps for children safety.
   (E)   Map posted. Must have a lighted posted map on plywood as to locations
of streets and lots at entrance to the park.
   (F)   Streets. All streets must be 66 feet wide with sidewalk, curb and
gutter, and must have a street sign kept in good repair at all times.
   (G)   Parking on streets prohibited. All streets are to be kept free of any
parked autos in case of emergency vehicle.
   (H)   Storm drain system. A storm drain system will be required in order to
drain all surface water away from the area so as not to cause flooding of any
coach or the area.
   (I)   Lot size. All lots will be the same size whether single or double.
   (J)   Skirting. All coaches will be skirted within, 30 days of being set
with cinder block.
   (K)   Parking spaces and storage unit. Each unit must have a two-car parking
space with a storage unit.
   (L)   Post lamp. Each unit must have a post lamp with the address number on
the post lamp, and the post lamp cannot be less than 70-watt high pressure
sodium.
   (M)   Grass area. All units will have to be grassed and kept up with no
parking permitted on the grassed area.
   (N)   Sanitation. All units will be required to be trash free.
   (O)   Trash disposal. The park will be required to have one or more large
trash bins that are fenced in and are to be picked up by a commercial disposal
company.
   (P)   Animal control. Only domestic animals will be permitted. All dogs must
be kenneled when not being walked with a leash.
   (Q)   Watchman or similar residence. One permanent residence may be built
for the exclusive use of a watchman, caretaker, owner or manager of a mobile
home park.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
§ 155.150  INTENT AND SCOPE.
   (A)   (1)   Within the districts established by this chapter, there exists:
         (a)   Lots;
         (b)   Structures;
         (c)   Signs;
         (d)   Uses of land and structures; and
         (e)   Characteristics of use which were lawful before the ordinance
codified as this chapter was passed, but which would be prohibited, regulated
or restricted under the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit these non-conformities
to continue until they are removed but not to encourage their survival and to
prohibit any enlargement of such uses.
   (B)   (1)   Non-conforming uses are declared by this chapter to be
incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved.
      (2)   A non-conforming use of land, or a non-conforming use of structure
and land in combination, shall not be extended or enlarged upon in any way
which would be prohibited generally in the district involved.
   (C)   (1)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed
to require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any
building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective
date of adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified herein, and upon which
actual building construction has been carried on diligently.
      (2)   ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner.
      (3)   Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing building
has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation or
demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction; provided that,
work shall be carried on diligently.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.151  NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of the
ordinance codified as this chapter, notwithstanding limitations imposed by
other provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet
the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in
the district: provided that, yard dimensions and requirements other than those
applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations
for the district in which such lot is located.
      (2)   Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained only through action
of the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.152  NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND OR LAND WITH MINOR STRUCTURES.
   Where, at the time of passage of the ordinance codified as this chapter,
lawful use of land exists which would not be permitted by the regulations
imposed by this chapter, and where such use does not involve a principal
structure, the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful;
provided:
   (A)   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified as this chapter without
approval of the Planning Commission;
   (B)   No such non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified as this
chapter;
   (C)   If any such non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than one year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located;
   (D)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected in connection with such non-conforming use of land;
   (E)   Should such non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of its
replacement cost at time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed, except
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter; and/or
   (F)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(Prior Code, § 10-13-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 155.165  VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   On a corner lot in any residential district, nothing shall be erected,
placed, planted or allowed to grow to a height exceeding three feet above the
grade in the triangular area, two sides of which are determined by measuring
along the curb line from the projected intersection of both corner curb lines a
distance of 35 feet, with the third side of such triangle being a line
connecting the two points so determined.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.166  FENCES.
   Notwithstanding any other provision herein, a fence which does not obstruct
the view (e.g., chainlink fence) may be erected to a height of five feet in any
yard abutting a street within a setback area. The fence shall in no way be
closed in with adjacent plant materials or strips of materials inserted into
the fence so as to obstruct vision.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.167  HEIGHT REGULATIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The height limitations contained in the district regulations do not apply to
spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys or
other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level and not
intended for human occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.168  YARD ENCROACHMENTS.
   Belt courses, sills, lintels, exterior columns, chimneys and building
accessories may project 24 inches into all yards. Open or unwalled balconies
and exterior stairways may project three and one-half feet into all yards.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.169  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   The minimum yard requirement established by this chapter shall also apply to
accessory buildings. Accessory buildings may be erected in rear yards in
conformance with yard requirements; provided, they are not located within a
minimum of 12 feet of any other building.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.170  STRUCTURES TO HAVE ACCESS.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a
public street, or with access to an approved private street, and structures
shall be so located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for
servicing fire protection and required off-street parking.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.171  UNLICENSED VEHICLES OR TRAILERS.
   Buildings, uses and lots shall be maintained in such a manner as to enhance
community pride and beautification. No junk, rubbish, weeds or other unsightly
material or conditions shall be permitted on any lot, right-of-way or easement,
or as a part of any building or use. The outside surface of buildings, all or
part of which is constructed of wood, shall, upon completion of construction,
be coated with paint or other wood preservative, unless the exterior wood
material is warranted by the manufacturer not to require such treatment in
order to maintain an attractive appearance.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-7)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.172  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The operation of any use permitted in this chapter is subject to the
standards of performance, as follows.
   (A)   Features confined. All uses must be operated so that all practical
means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration or other
similar feature to the premises upon which located.
   (B)   Enclosure of storage areas. All outdoor storage areas shall be
completely enclosed by a fence or wall at least six feet in height in
commercial zone districts along sides adjacent to street right-of-way or major
streets and such that the area enclosed by the fence or wall is not visible
from outside such fence or wall.
   (C)   Lighting. Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas or for any
other purposes, shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-8)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.173  USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No structures, fence, sign or other permanent, human-made object may
be erected in the public right-of-way without specific permission of the Town
Council after consideration by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   No part of the right-of-way may be used for the storage or display of
goods, wares or merchandise offered for sale or for advertising or for any
other purpose unless authorized by the provisions of the traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-9)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.174  OUTDOOR STORAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Fuel and flammable liquids. Fuel and flammable liquids stored
aboveground and in storage tanks of 300 gallons or more shall be diked to
prevent the complete escape of liquid in the event of a rupture of the storage
tank. Such storage tanks shall be at least 50 feet from any building and 50
feet from the boundary lines of the zone lot.
   (B)   Materials or wastes. No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon
the zone lot in such a manner that they may be carried off the zone lot by
natural forces or causes.
   (C)   Closed containers. All materials or wastes which might cause fumes or
dust, which constitutes a fire hazard, or which might be attractive to rodents
or insects, shall be stored in closed containers.
(Prior Code, § 10-14-10)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 155.185  DEFINITION.
   A HOME OCCUPATION is any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried out by persons residing in the dwelling unit. This accessory use will
be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling
purposes and the principal residence of the occupants. The HOME OCCUPATION
shall not include any display, stock in trade, employees or the use of
advertising, except as provided herein. The HOME OCCUPATION shall not involve
the use of yard space outside the main building; however, accessory buildings
may be involved as a special condition pending approval by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-18-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.186  PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit. To assure compliance with provisions of this chapter and to
protect the character of residential neighborhoods in the town, a home
occupation application shall be obtained from the office of the Town Treasurer
before a dwelling unit in a residential zone may be used for business purposes.
   (B)   Utah sales tax license. If required by the state, a state sales tax
license will be required with the town listed as a business location.
(Prior Code, § 10-18-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.187  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Applications for home occupation permit shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission. Applications will be reviewed by the Planning Commission and
forwarded to the governing body with the Commission’s recommendations for
action. The governing body will then act upon the application. Upon approval of
an application, a home occupation permit will be issued, which permit shall
state the home occupation permitted, the conditions attached thereto, and any
time limitations imposed thereon. The permit shall not be issued unless the
Planning Commission is satisfied that the applicant will meet all of the
conditions listed below, and that the applicant has agreed in writing to comply
with all said standards.
(Prior Code, § 10-18-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.188  FEES.
   A business license will in effect be a home occupation permit. No other fee
is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 10-18-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.189  CONDITIONS.
   Each and every one of the following conditions must be observed at all times
by the holder of a home occupation permit:
   (A)   Not more than one person is employed in the home occupation or office
of a professional person on the premises in addition to the residing family;
   (B)   The home occupation shall be conducted wholly within the structures on
the premises and shall not exceed 25% of the total living area of the home;
   (C)   Inventory and supplies for the home occupation shall not occupy more
than 50% of the permitted area, or 12% of the living area of the home;
   (D)   No business signs are used with the exception of one unlighted sign
concerned with the home occupation or office of a professional person, not to
exceed three square feet which shall be attached to the exterior wall of the
structure in a manner deemed by the Planning Commission and governing body not
to detract from the residential character of the dwelling or the neighborhood
in which the home occupation is to be located;
   (E)   No display of any merchandise shall be visible from the exterior of
the premises;
   (F)   No mechanical or electrical apparatus, equipment or tools shall be
permitted, except those items which are commonly associated with a residential
use or as are customary to home crafts or home occupations;
   (G)   The home occupation shall not generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic
in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is
located;
   (H)   There shall be complete conformity with Fire, Building, Plumbing,
Electrical and Health Codes and to all state and town laws and ordinances;
   (I)   The home occupation shall not cause a demand for municipal or utility
services or community facilities in excess of those usually and customarily
provided for residential uses;
   (J)   The home occupation shall not alter the residential character of the
premises or unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet, including radio and
television reception, of the neighborhood by reason of color, design,
materials, construction, lighting, sounds, noises, vibrations, dust, odors,
noxious fumes and the like;
   (K)   Any special condition established by the Planning Commission and made
of record in the home occupation permit, as it deemed necessary to carry out
the intent of this chapter, shall be met;
   (L)   All home occupation permits shall be valid for one year, and must be
renewed annually, provided there have been no reported violations, complaints
or detrimental characteristics which may, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, require termination of said home occupation, or revocation of the
home occupation permit by the Town Council. Signatures and public hearings will
not be needed on renewals;
   (M)   Retail sales on the premises shall be limited to merchandise directly
related to the services offered by the home occupation; otherwise, there shall
be no delivery or resale to customers of retail merchandise on the premises;
and
   (N)   The premises shall be subject to inspection by the Planning
Commission, after reasonable notice is given with due cause.
(Prior Code, § 10-18-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.190  SIGNATURE OF AWARENESS FROM NEIGHBORS.
   All applications must have signatures of neighbors within 300 feet from the
exterior boundaries of the property involved. Signatures must indicate that
neighbors are aware of the home occupation.
(Prior Code, § 10-18-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.191  REVOCATION.
   Any home occupation permit shall be revoked by the Planning Commission upon
violation of any requirements of this chapter, or upon failure to comply with
any of the conditions or limitations of the permit, unless such violation is
corrected within ten days of receipt of written notice thereof. A permit may be
revoked for repeated violations of four or fewer notices of the requirements of
this chapter, not withstanding compliance to the violation dated notice.
(Prior Code, § 10-18-7)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.192  APPEAL.
   In the event of denial of any permit or of the revocation thereof, or of
objection to the limitations placed thereon, appeal may be made to the Town
Council in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-18-8)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
SIGNS
§ 155.205  SCOPE.
   These regulations shall apply to signs erected, altered and maintained by
and for permitted uses in all districts. Signs governed by several regulations
shall comply with all such regulations. If state regulations for signs along
highways are in conflict with this chapter, the more restrictive rules shall
apply.
(Prior Code, § 10-15-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.206  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Approval. Signs controlled by this chapter shall be erected only after
the approval by a permit from the zoning officials. An application for such
approval shall contain a sketch or drawing to scale of the proposed sign and
notation as to its height, size and location on the structure or zone lot. An
application for a freestanding sign shall also contain engineering
specifications which delineate the wind and snow loads that the sign can
sustain.
   (B)   Maintenance. Signs shall be maintained in a good state of repair.
Broken signs, signs unreadable because of deterioration, and signs on vacant
buildings may be ordered repaired or removed by the zoning officials.
   (C)   Location. Signs shall not be located on any part of the roof of any
structure.
(Prior Code, § 10-15-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.207  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of signs shall be deemed to be outside the scope of
these regulations and shall not require a permit:
   (A)   Cornerstones and historical markers;
   (B)   Danger or warning signs of a cautionary nature;
   (C)   Decorations of a temporary nature;
   (D)   Informational and directional signs with no advertising;
   (E)   Nameplates and addresses for structures;
   (F)   Real estate “for sale”, rental or lease signs not exceeding six feet
in area;
   (G)   Religious symbols;
   (H)   Signs required by law or authorized for a public purpose;
   (I)   Traffic signs; and
   (J)   Window displays of actual merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 10-15-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.208  PROHIBITED SIGNS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Off-premises. Off-premises signs are prohibited in all districts,
except for billboard or temporary business and directional signs as approved by
the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Flashing. No “revolving beacon”, “fountain” or “flashing” signs which
are of such intensity or so located that it could distract a motorist’s vision
from normal, safe driving shall be permitted in any district.
   (C)   Conflict with traffic device. No sign in any district shall conflict
in any manner with the purpose or operation of a public device controlling
public traffic.
   (D)   Overhanging or freestanding. No overhanging or freestanding signs
shall be permitted in any public right-of-way, except those traffic control and
direction devices erected and approved by the public agency having
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 10-15-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
PARKING AND LOADING
§ 155.220  PARKING SPACES; DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, as in an organized parking district,
purchased or leased, off-site parking or otherwise acceptably arranged, the
minimum standards for off-street, on-site parking requirements shall be
mandatory for all new construction and expansions of existing uses unless a
hardship can be clearly demonstrated.
   (B)   Each parking space shall be an area nine feet by 20 feet.
   (C)   Driveways shall be a minimum of 25 feet wide unless otherwise approved
by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-16-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.221  REQUEST FOR REDUCTION.
   (A)   In unusual circumstances, such as those cases listed below, where the
parking requirements create an extreme hardship, a reasonable reduction may be
requested.
   (B)   Examples of hardships which may be considered are as follows:
      (1)   Uses where many employees or tenants do not own or drive vehicles
due to age or other reasons; or
      (2)   Uses where the multiple use parking requirements may be
inappropriate due to the related nature of the uses needing the off-street
parking.
(Prior Code, § 10-16-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.222  EMPLOYEE PARKING.
   (A)   Employee parking shall be addressed and accommodated off-street for
all categories, except where employee parking is specifically addressed and
required in the minimum standards. The amount of employee parking and the
distance it may be located from the proposed use shall be determined from
information obtained through a statement of impact.
   (B)   The statement of impact shall address such things as:
      (1)   Type of use;
      (2)   Number of employees (perceived);
      (3)   Square feet of sales area, service area and the like;
      (4)   Parking spaces proposed on-site;
      (5)   Hours of operation; and
      (6)   Administration (enforcement and maintenance).
(Prior Code, § 10-16-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.223  UNUSUAL OR EXTREME CIRCUMSTANCES.
   All petitioners should be advised that in unusual or extreme circumstances,
a petitioner may be asked to provide more than the minimum number of required
parking stalls.
(Prior Code, § 10-16-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.224  MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Requirements. The following are minimum standards for parking spaces
to be maintained in connection with the buildings and uses indicated. In those
instances where there are clearly identified multiple uses within a structure,
the minimum standards shall apply to each use, resulting in a total parking
requirement when summed.
Use Proposed Parking Requirements
                                                                                 Proposed
Use                                                                              Parking
                                                                                 Requirements
                                                                                 1 space per
                                                                                 300 square
Daycare and nursery schools                                                      feet of
                                                                                 building
                                                                                 area
                                                                                 Residential
                                                                                 uses for all
                                                                                 single-
                                                                                 family
                                                                                 dwellings up
                                                                                 to and
Residential                                                                      including
                                                                                 two-family
                                                                                 dwelling
                                                                                 units, 2
                                                                                 spaces per
                                                                                 dwelling
                                                                                 unit
                                                                                 1 space per
Restaurants                                                                      300 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 floor space
Retail sales/services
   Low volume retail sales (consists of convenience stores, shops, nurseries, 1 space per
greenhouses and similar uses)                                                    500 square
                                                                                 feet
                                                                                 1 space per
                                                                                 each 300
                                                                                 square feet
Service business (consists of beauty/barber shops, food lockers, laundries and   gross floor
similar uses)                                                                    area
                                                                                 (includes
                                                                                 employee
                                                                                 parking)
                                                                                 1 space per
                                                                                 300 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 office area
Warehousing                                                                      1 space per
                                                                                 2,000 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 warehouse
                                                                                 area
                                                                                 1 space per
                                                                                 300 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 office area
Wholesale business                                                               1 space per
                                                                                 2,000 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 wholesale
                                                                                 area
 
   (B)   Space dimensions. Space dimensions shall be nine feet by 20 feet.
   (C)   Uses not specified. In the case of a use not specifically mentioned,
the off-street parking standards for a similar use shall apply.
   (D)   Location. The parking area should be provided on the same property as
the principal building wherever possible, in business and commercial districts,
the parking may be within 200 feet of the property, but within a zone district
permitting such parking use. Such separate parking lots shall be maintained as
long as the principal buildings or uses are maintained. Parking spaces in
residential districts shall not be in a front yard setback as required by
setback regulations.
   (E)   Use of off-street parking by another building. No part of an off-
street parking space identified for any building or use shall be included as a
part of an off-street area for another building or use, unless it is
demonstrated such uses do not conflict with each other.
   (F)   Joint parking facilities. The off-street parking requirements for
churches, auditoriums, clubs or lodges may be supplied with other off-street
facilities, provided other uses such as business offices, retail stores,
manufacturing or wholesale businesses, whose operations are not normally
conducted during the same hours, subject to:
      (1)   Off-street parking designated for joint use shall not be more than
200 feet from the property or use it is intended to serve; except that,
employee parking may be further if it can be reasonably used;
      (2)   A business may purchase or long-term lease off-street parking from
a parking entity (public or private) to satisfy required parking minimums.
Purchased or leased parking will be considered appropriate if it is within 200
feet of the property and can be demonstrated not to have an adverse effect on
the existing parking supply;
      (3)   Sufficient evidence shall be presented to demonstrate that there
will be no substantial conflict in any joint parking arrangement; and
      (4)   Evidence in the form of a written agreement between the owners (or
other parties of interest) of the structures or uses for which joint parking
arrangements are proposed shall be presented with the application for a
building permit and a copy of said agreement shall be maintained in the files
of the town.
   (G)   Plan of parking areas. For any parking area, plans should be submitted
to the Building Inspector, Traffic Engineer and Town Council for investigation
and recommendation.
   (H)   Wall; fence. For each boundary line of a business parking area
abutting directly on a residential use, there shall be a wall, screen or fence
six feet high, except where setback requirements would limit it.
(Prior Code, § 10-16-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 155.235  PURPOSE.
   Certain uses which may be harmonious under special conditions and in
specific locations within a district, but be improper under general conditions
and in other locations, are classed as conditional uses within the various
districts and require conditional use permits for approval.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-1)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.236  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as
conditional uses in the district regulations or elsewhere in this chapter. A
conditional use permit may be revoked upon failure to comply with conditions
precedent to the original approval of the certificate. No building permit or
other permit or license shall be issued for a use requiring conditional use
without first being reviewed and/or approved by the Planning Commission or the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-2)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.237  APPLICATION.
   (A)   A conditional use permit application shall be made to the Planning
Commission as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Applications for a conditional use permit shall be accompanied by
maps, drawings, statements or other documents as required by the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-3)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.238  FEE.
   The application for any conditional use permit shall be accompanied by the
appropriate fee as determined by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.239  DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The applicant for a conditional use permit shall prepare a site plan with
evaluations (as may be necessary) for the site being proposed for development.
The plan shall be drawn to scale and show all existing and proposed buildings,
roads, parking and other information that the Planning Commission may deem
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-5)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.240  PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend approval or denial of the
conditional use permit. In recommending approval of any conditional use, the
Planning Commission shall suggest regulations and conditions which are
necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   In recommending approval of a conditional use permit, the Planning
Commission shall find that:
      (1)   The proposed use is necessary or desirable and will contribute to
the general well-being of the community;
      (2)   The use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of
persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
improvements in the vicinity;
      (3)   The proposed use will comply with the regulations of this chapter;
and
      (4)   The proposed use is in harmony with the intent and purpose of the
master plan, or that the plan shall have first been amended through public
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-6)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.241  APPEAL TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   Upon denial of a conditional use permit by the Planning Commission, the
applicant may appeal in writing within 30 days to the Town Council. The Town
Council may approve, modify and approve or deny the conditional use application
in a public meeting. In approving any conditional use, the Town Council shall
impose regulations and conditions as are necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare. The Town Council shall follow the same conditions
as stated in §
155.240 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-7)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.242  EXPANSION OF CONDITIONAL USE.
   No structure in which a conditional use is located may expand without the
approval of the Planning Commission and the Town Council. Before expanding, the
applicant shall present to the Planning Commission a development plan meeting
the requirements of §
155.239 of this chapter. No public hearing need be held; however, the Planning
Commission may deem a hearing necessary.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-8)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.243  INSPECTION.
   Following the issuance of a conditional use permit for a use which requires
a building permit, the assigned Building Inspector shall approve an application
for a building permit, and shall ensure that development is undertaken and
completed in compliance with said conditional use and all other applicable
codes and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-9)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.244  TIME LIMITATION.
   (A)   All conditional use permits shall expire within a maximum period of
one year of issuance, unless there shall have been substantial performance
toward the completion of the conditions set forth in the permit. The Planning
Commission may recommend and the Town Council may grant a maximum extension of
six months under exceptional circumstances. Hardship cases may be evaluated on
a case-by-case basis. In the event that a conditional use permit is granted on
a temporary basis, the Planning Commission may recommend and the Town Council
may issue a permit for six months, with one maximum extension of six months.
   (B)   A conditional use permit shall be non-transferable.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-10)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.245  SIGNATURE OF AWARENESS FROM NEIGHBORS.
   All applications for a conditional use permit must have signatures of
neighbors within 300 feet from the exterior boundaries of the property
involved. Signatures must indicate that neighbors are aware of the proposed
conditional use.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-11)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.246  REVOCATION AND/OR REINSTATEMENT.
   A conditional use permit may be revoked upon failure to comply with the
conditions imposed with the original approval of the permit and the applicant
shall be so notified of revocation by the town. The permit may be reinstated
upon determination by the Town Council that the cause for revocation has been
corrected and that the applicant intends to proceed according to the plans
approved by the Planning Commission at the time the permit was originally
issued, or as they might have been properly amended by the Planning Commission
from time to time during the period of the conditional use. Revocation or
reinstatement of a conditional use permit is the responsibility of the Town
Council, upon recommendation by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-17-12)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 155.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Classification of violation. Violations of this chapter shall be
classified as a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day of knowing, continued violation
shall constitute a separate offense, punishable separately.
   (B)   Enforcement of title. This chapter shall be enforceable, in addition
to the other remedies provided by law, by injunction, mandamus or proceedings
in abatement. Appeals from judgments rendered in any action instituted to
enforce this chapter shall be permitted and shall be in accordance with the
general appeal provisions of the state’s Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4)  (Ord. 2001-02, passed 10-3-2001)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS
      
II.   EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS AND ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. Date       Description
No.       Passed
2009-01   3-19-2009  Annexing and classifying the zone district classification
                     of territory known as the “Peterson Annexation”
2009-03   10-15-2009 Annexing and classifying the zone district classification
                     of territory known as the “Monte Nielson Annexation”
2020-01   12-17-2020 Annexing and classifying the zone district classification
                     of territory known as the “Zeb Nielson Annexation”
2020-02   12-17-2020 Annexing and classifying the zone district classification
                     of territory known as the “Stewart Rowley Annexation”
2021-01   2-18-2021  Annexing and classifying the zone district classification
                     of territory known as the “Tom Nielson Annexation”
2021-02   3-18-2021  Annexing and classifying the zone district classification
                     of territory known as the “Zeb Nielson Annexation”
2021-04   6-17-2021  Changing the zoning status in certain areas of the town
                    
 
TABLE II:  EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 2000-04    11-16-2000  Accepting an easement and right-of-way from Millard
                          County to the town
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Utah Code Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO UTAH CODE ANNOTATED
UCA Section Code Section
UCA Section                 Code Section
10-3-201                    31.16
10-3-208(4)                 30.16
10-3-607                    31.17
10-3-703                    10.99
10-3-704(1) through (4)     31.33
10-3-706 through 10-3-710   31.34
10-3-709                    31.34
10-3-710                    31.34
10-3-717                    34.01
10-3-1301 through 10-3-1312 32.21
10-3-1310                   32.99
10-3b-401                   31.16
10-9a-101 et seq.           155.001
10-9a-103(65)               154.002
10-11-4                     92.06
10-11-1 et seq.             92.07
11-36a-101 et seq.          151.15
Title 15A, Ch. 2            151.02
Title 20A                   30.15
20A-9-203                   31.01
20A-1-510                   31.02
26-2-22                     10.15
Title 41                    70.01
52-4-101 through 52-4-305   31.18
52-4-101 et seq.            30.01
52-4-301                    31.17
53-2a-209                   34.03
Title 54                    35.04
Title 59, Ch. 12            35.02;
                            35.04
59-12-101                   35.04
59-12-106                   35.04
Title 63G, Ch. 2            32.22
63G-7-101 et seq.           50.31
Title 76                    130.01
76-3-301                    10.99
76-3-104                    10.99
76-3-104(4)                 10.99
76-3-204                    10.99
76-3-205                    10.99
76-3-301                    10.99
76-3-302                    10.99
76-3-301                    31.31
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
1-4-1      10.99
1-4-2      10.99
1-4-3      10.99
1-5-1      31.01
1-5-2      31.02
1-5-5      31.30—
           31.36
1-6-1      32.01
1-6-2      32.02
1-6-3      32.03
1-6-4      32.04
1-6-5      32.05
1-6A-1     32.20
1-6A-2     32.21
1-6A-3     32.22
1-6A-4     32.23
1-6A-5     32.24
1-6A-6     32.25
1-6A-7     32.25
1-6A-8     32.26
1-6A-9     32.27
1-6A-10    32.28
1-6A-11    32.29
1-6A-12    32.30
1-6A-13    32.31
1-6A-14    32.32
1-6A-15    32.33
1-6A-16    32.34
1-6A-17    32.99
1-7-1      30.15
3-1-1      110.01
3-2A-1     35.01
3-2A-2     35.02
3-2A-3     35.03
3-2A-4     35.04
3-2A-5     35.99
3-3-1      111.01
3-3-2      111.02
3-3-3      111.03
3-3-4      111.04
3-3-5      111.05
3-3-6      111.06
3-3-7      111.07
3-3-8      111.08
3-3-9      111.09
3-3-10     111.10
4-1-1      33.01
4-1-2      33.02
4-1-3      33.03
4-1-4      33.04
4-1-5      33.05
4-1-6      33.06
4-1-7      33.07
4-1-8      33.99
4-2-1      92.01
4-2-2      92.02
4-2-3      92.03
4-2-4      92.04
4-2-5      92.05
4-2-6      92.06
4-2-7      92.07
4-2-8      92.37
4-3-1      92.20
4-3-2      92.21
4-3-3      92.37
4-4-1      92.35
4-4-2      92.36
4-4-3      92.37
5-1-1      90.01
5-1-2      90.02
5-1-3      90.03
5-1-4      90.04
5-1-5      90.05
5-1-6      90.06
5-1-7      90.07
5-1-8      90.08
5-1-8      90.99
5-1-9      90.09
5-1-10     90.10
5-2-1      130.01
5-2-2      130.02
5-2-2      130.99
5-3-1      130.15
5-3-2      130.16
5-3-3      130.17
5-3-4      130.99
6-1-1      70.01
6-2-1      71.01
6-2-2      71.02
6-2-3      71.03
7-1-1      152.01
7-1-2      152.02
7-1-3      152.03
7-1-4      152.04
7-1-5      152.05
7-1-6      152.06
7-2-1      152.20
7-2-2      152.21
7-2-3      152.22
7-2-4      152.23
7-2-5      152.24
7-2-6      152.25
7-2-7      152.26
7-3-1      152.40
7-3-2      152.41
7-3-3      152.42
7-3-4      152.43
7-3-5      152.44
7-3-6      152.43
7-3-7      152.46
7-3-8      152.47
7-4-1      152.60
7-4-2      152.61
7-4-3      152.62
7-4-4      152.63
7-5-1      91.01
7-5-2      91.02
7-5-3      91.03
7-5-4      91.04
7-5-5      91.05
7-5-6      91.06
7-5-7      91.07
7-5-8      91.08
7-5-9      91.09
7-5-10     91.10
7-5-11     91.11
8-1-1      50.01;
           50.02
8-1-2      50.15
8-1-3      50.16
8-1-4      50.17
8-1-5      50.19
8-1-6      50.20
8-1-7      50.20
8-1-8      50.21
8-1-9      50.22
8-1-10     50.23
8-1-11     50.24
8-1-12     50.25
8-1-13     50.26
8-1-14     50.27
8-1-15     50.28
8-1-16     50.29
8-1-17     50.30;
           50.99
8-1-18     50.45—
           50.52
8-1-19     50.31
8-1-20     50.32
8-2-1      52.01
8-2-2      52.02
8-2-3      52.03
8-2-4      52.04
8-2-5      52.05
9-1-1      151.01
9-1-2      151.02
9-2-1      151.15
9-2-2      151.16
9-2-3      151.17
9-2-4      151.18
9-2-5      151.19
9-2-6      151.20
9-2-7      151.21
9-2-8      151.22
9-2-9      151.23
9-2-10     151.24
9-2-11     151.25
9-3-1      151.03
9-3-2      151.03
9-4-1      151.04
10-1-1     155.001
10-1-2     155.002
10-1-3     155.003
10-2-1     155.015
10-2-2     155.016
10-2-3     155.017
10-2-4     155.018
10-2-4     155.999
10-3-1     155.055
10-3-2     155.056
10-3-3     155.057
10-3-4     155.058
10-3-5     155.059
10-3-6     155.060
10-3-7     155.061
10-3-8     155.062
10-3-9     155.063
10-3-10    155.064
10-3-11    155.065
10-3-12    155.066
10-3-13    155.067
10-4-1     155.080
10-4-2     155.081
10-4-3     155.082
10-4-4     155.083
10-4-5     155.084
10-4-6     155.085
10-5-1     155.100
10-5-2     155.101
10-5-3     155.102
10-5-4     155.103
10-6-1     155.103
10-6-2     155.103
10-6-3     155.115
10-6-4     155.115
10-7A-1    155.116
10-7A-2    155.116
10-7A-3    155.116
10-7A-4    155.116
10-7A-5    155.116
10-8A-1    155.117
10-8A-2    155.117
10-8A-3    155.117
10-9-1     155.130
10-9-2     155.131
10-9-3     155.132
10-9-4     155.133
10-9-5     155.134
10-9-6     155.135
10-10-1    155.019
10-10-2    155.019
10-10-3    155.019
10-11-1    155.020
10-11-2    155.020
10-11-3    155.020
10-12-1    155.035
10-12-2    155.036
10-12-3    155.037
10-12-4    155.038
10-12-5    155.039
10-12-6    155.040
10-12-7    155.041
10-13-1    155.150
10-13-2    155.151
10-13-3    155.152
10-14-1    155.165
10-14-2    155.166
10-14-3    155.167
10-14-4    155.168
10-14-5    155.169
10-14-6    155.170
10-14-7    155.171
10-14-8    155.172
10-14-9    155.173
10-14-10   155.174
10-15-1    155.205
10-15-2    155.206
10-15-3    155.207
10-15-4    155.208
10-16-1    155.220
10-16-2    155.221
10-16-3    155.222
10-16-4    155.223
10-16-5    155.224
10-17-1    155.235
10-17-2    155.236
10-17-3    155.237
10-17-4    155.238
10-17-5    155.239
10-17-6    155.240
10-17-7    155.241
10-17-8    155.242
10-17-9    155.243
10-17-10   155.244
10-17-11   155.245
10-17-12   155.246
10-18-1    155.185
10-18-2    155.186
10-18-3    155.187
10-18-4    155.188
10-18-5    155.189
10-18-6    155.190
10-18-7    155.191
10-18-8    155.192
11-1-1     154.001
11-1-2     154.002
11-1-3     154.003
11-2-1     154.015
11-2-2     154.016
11-2-3     154.017
11-2-4     154.018
11-3-1     154.030
11-3-2     154.031
11-3-3     154.032
11-3-4     154.033
11-3-5     154.034
11-3-6     154.035
11-3-7     154.036
11-4-1     154.050
11-4-2     154.051
11-5-1     154.065
11-5-2     154.066
11-5-3     154.067
11-5-4     154.068
11-6-1     154.105
11-6-2     154.106
11-6-3     154.107
11-6-4     154.108
11-6-5     154.109
11-7-1     154.080
11-7-2     154.081
11-7-3     154.082
11-7-4     154.083
11-7-5     154.084
11-7-6     154.085
11-7-7     154.086
11-7-8     154.087
11-7-9     154.088
11-7-10    154.089
11-7-11    154.090
11-7-12    154.091
11-7-13    154.092
12-1-1     153.01
12-1-2     153.02
12-1-3     153.03
12-1-4     153.04
12-1-5     153.05
12-1-6     153.06—
           153.10
12-1-7     153.11;
           153.12
12-1-8     153.25—
           153.29
12-1-9     153.99
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2004-04  11-16-2000  TSO Table II
2003-01  1-16-2003   51.01—
                     51.04
2003-06  3-20-2003   34.03
2021-01  2-18-2021   34.01
2021-02  3-18-2021   36.01
2021-03  4-15-2021   32.06
2021-05  8-19-2021   32.07
2021-07  10-21-2021  31.15—
                     31.20
2021-06  8-19-2021   36.01
2021-08  12-16-2021  50.03
2022-01  2-17-2022   31.18
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     90.01—
87-02    12-17-1986  90.10;
                     90.99
                     50.28—
87-01    8-2-1987    50.30;
                     50.99
                     33.01—
-        5-19-1988   33.07;
                     33.99
                     35.01—
1990-01  1-18-1990   35.04;
                     35.99
1990-03  10-18-1990  151.03
                     32.20—
1993-01  4-15-1993   32.34;
                     32.99
1995-03  5-30-1995   92.07
1997-01  12-18-1997  71.01—
                     71.03
                     130.15—
1999-01  1-21-1999   130.17;
                     130.99
1999-02  8-19-1999   151.15—
                     151.25
1999-03  10-21-1999  52.01—
                     52.05
2001-02  7-27-2001   30.16
                     153.01—
                     153.12;
2001-02  10-3-2001   153.25—
                     153.29;
                     153.99
                     154.001—
                     154.003;
                     154.015—
                     154.018;
                     154.030—
                     154.036;
2001-02  10-3-2001   154.050;
                     154.051;
                     154.065—
                     154.068;
                     154.080—
                     154.092;
                     154.105—
                     154.109
                     155.001—
                     155.003;
                     155.015—
                     155.020;
                     155.035—
                     155.041;
                     155.055—
                     155.067;
                     155.080—
                     155.085;
                     155.100—
                     155.103;
                     155.115—
                     155.117;
2001-02  10-3-2001   155.130—
                     155.135;
                     155.150—
                     155.152;
                     155.165—
                     155.174;
                     155.185—
                     155.192;
                     155.205—
                     155.208;
                     155.220—
                     155.224;
                     155.235—
                     155.246;
                     155.999
2003-02  1-16-2003   150.01
2007-01  3-15-2007   34.02
2009-01  3-19-2009   TSO Table I
2009-03  10-15-2009  TSO Table I
2009-05  12-17-2009  30.01;
                     30.02
2019-01  11-21-2019  155.116
2019-02  11-21-2019  155.019
2020-01  12-17-2020  TSO Table I
2020-02  12-17-2020  TSO Table I
2020-03  12-17-2020  32.05
2021-01  2-18-2021   TSO Table I
2021-02  3-18-2021   TSO Table I
2021-04  6-17-2021   TSO Table I
2021-05  12-16-2021  50.15
2021-06  12-16-2021  32.05
 
