CITY CODE
of
PLAIN CITY, UTAH
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-09, passed 6-19-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Plain City, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 2025-09, passed June 19, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
                     
ORDINANCE # 2025-04
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF PLAIN CITY, UTAH AMENDING THE CITY’S DEFINITION OF FRONTAGE;
AND ESTABLISHING AN EFFECTIVE DATE
 
Section 1.   Recitals
 
WHEREAS, The City Council finds, that the City of PLAIN CITY (herein “City”) is
a municipal corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State
of Utah; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that in conformance with the provisions of UCA
§ 10-3-717, the governing body of the city may exercise all administrative
powers; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that in conformance with the provisions of UCA
§ 10-3-702, the governing body of the City may pass any ordinance to regulate,
require, prohibit, govern, control, or supervise any activity, business,
conduct or condition authorized by State law or any other provision of law; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that this issue related to the definition of
frontage has been reviewed by the Planning Commission and certain
recommendations made by them; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the public health, welfare and safety are
at issue in this matter; now,
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of PLAIN CITY as follows:
 
Section 2.        City’s Definition for frontage amended
 
 
The following amendment is made to Title 10 Chapter 2 Section 1 of the Plain
City Code:
 
10-2-1 DEFINITIONS:
 
FRONTAGE: The distance between the two (2) side lot lines of a parcel measured
along the street, or streets of a corner lot, to which the parcel is allowed
main access. No state or federal highway to which no access is allowed shall be
considered as frontage. Frontage on a corner lot shall be limited to one street
only. 
 
 
 
 
The following amendment is made to Title 10 Chapter 12 Section 2 of the Plain
City Code:
 
10-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
FRONTAGE: The distance between the two (2) side lot lines of a parcel measured
along the street, or streets of a corner lot, to which the parcel is allowed
main access. No State or Federal highway to which no access is allowed shall be
considered as frontage. Frontage on a corner lot shall be limited to one street
only.
 
The following amendment is made to Title 11 Chapter 1 Section 2 of the Plain
City Code:
 
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
FRONTAGE: The distance between the two (2) side lot lines of a parcel measured
along the street, or streets of a corner lot, to which the parcel is allowed
main access. No state or federal highway to which no access is allowed shall be
considered as frontage. Frontage on a corner lot shall be limited to one street
only.
 
 
 
Section 3.    Prior Ordinances And Resolutions  The body and substance of any
and all prior Ordinances and Resolutions, together with their specific
provisions, where not otherwise in conflict with this Ordinance, are hereby
reaffirmed and readopted.
 
Section 4.    Repealer Of Conflicting Enactments   All orders, ordinances and
resolutions with respect to the changes herein enacted and adopted which have
heretofore been adopted by the City, or parts thereof, which are in conflict
with any of the provisions of this Ordinance Amendment, are, to the extent of
such conflict, hereby repealed, except that this repeal shall not be construed
to revive any act, order or resolution, or part thereof, heretofore repealed.
 
Section 5.    Savings Clause If any provision of this Ordinance shall be held
or deemed to be or shall, in fact, be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable for
any reason, such reason shall not have the effect of rendering any other
provision or provisions hereof invalid, inoperative or unenforceable to any
extent whatever, this Ordinance and the provisions of this Ordinance being
deemed to be the separate independent and severable act of the City Council of
Plain City.  
 
 
Section 6.    Date Of Effect This Ordinance shall be effective on the 20th day
of February 2025, and after publication or posting as required by law.
         
          
 
    DATED this 20th day of February, 2025
                                                      
PLAIN CITY, a municipal corporation
____________________________________
MAYOR – Jon Beesley
 
 
 
 
ATTESTED AND RECORDED:
 
____________________________________
Diane Hirschi, CMC
CITY RECORDER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                     
ORDINANCE # 2025-07
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF PLAIN CITY, UTAH AMENDING THE CITY’S PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
TITLE 7 CHAPTER 1 STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS; AND ESTABLISHING AN
EFFECTIVE DATE
 
Section 1.   Recitals
 
WHEREAS, The City Council finds, that the City of PLAIN CITY (herein “City”) is
a municipal corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State
of Utah; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that in conformance with the provisions of UCA
§ 10-3-717, the governing body of the city may exercise all administrative
powers; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that in conformance with the provisions of UCA
§ 10-3-702, the governing body of the City may pass any ordinance to regulate,
require, prohibit, govern, control, or supervise any activity, business,
conduct or condition authorized by State law or any other provision of law; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that this issue has been reviewed by the
Planning Commission and certain recommendations made by them; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the public health, welfare and safety are
at issue in this matter; now,
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of PLAIN CITY as follows:
 
Section 2.        City’s Street, Sidewalks, and Public Ways Ordinance Amended.
 
 
The following amends and entirely replaces Plain City Code Title 7 Chapter 1:
 
TITLE 7 PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1 STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
 
7-1-1: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
 
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created a public works department, which
shall have general supervision of streets, sidewalks, bridges and other public
ways.
   B.   Director: The department shall be under the direction and control of
the public works director. (1982 Code § 11-311; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Powers And Duties: The department shall:
      1.   Have charge of the construction, maintenance and repair of streets,
sidewalks, bridges, curbs, gutters, culverts, drains, waterways and other
public ways. It shall have control of all waters flowing on the streets,
sidewalks and public ways, whether originating from storm, flood, drainage or
irrigation waters.
      2.   Keep a record of and promptly investigate all complaints of
defective streets, culverts, drains, ditches, sidewalks and other public ways
and, when proper, repair, replace or take such action as deemed best, and shall
record the action taken on each complaint.
      3.   Enforce the provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances
relating to the maintenance and use of streets, culverts, drains, ditches,
waterways, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and other public ways.
      4.   Repair, or cause to be repaired, all defects coming to the
department's attention and take reasonable precautions to protect the public
from injuries due to such defects pending their repair. (1982 Code § 11-312)
 
7-1-5: DISCHARGE OF WATER:
 
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control
of any premises to fail, refuse or neglect to prevent water from the roof or
eaves of any house, building or other structure, or from any other source under
the control of such person, to be discharged upon the surface of any sidewalk. 
   B.   Discharge Of Pollutants: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the city storm drain system or watercourse, any materials
including, but not limited to, pollutants, or water containing any pollutants,
that cause or contribute to a violation or applicable water quality standards,
other than stormwater in the drain. (1982 Code § 11-365; amd. Ord. 2020-10, 10-
15-2020)
C. It shall be unlawful to knowingly, intentionally or recklessly: Release or
direct the flow of any water into any conveyance facilities or onto any
neighboring property, without the legal right to do so. 
 
 
Section 3.    Prior Ordinances And Resolutions  The body and substance of any
and all prior Ordinances and Resolutions, together with their specific
provisions, where not otherwise in conflict with this Ordinance, are hereby
reaffirmed and readopted.
 
Section 4.    Repealer Of Conflicting Enactments   All orders, ordinances and
resolutions with respect to the changes herein enacted and adopted which have
heretofore been adopted by the City, or parts thereof, which are in conflict
with any of the provisions of this Ordinance Amendment, are, to the extent of
such conflict, hereby repealed, except that this repeal shall not be construed
to revive any act, order or resolution, or part thereof, heretofore repealed.
 
Section 5.    Savings Clause If any provision of this Ordinance shall be held
or deemed to be or shall, in fact, be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable for
any reason, such reason shall not have the effect of rendering any other
provision or provisions hereof invalid, inoperative or unenforceable to any
extent whatever, this Ordinance and the provisions of this Ordinance being
deemed to be the separate independent and severable act of the City Council of
Plain City.  
 
Section 6.    Date Of Effect This Ordinance shall be effective on the 19th day
of June 2025, and after publication or posting as required by law.
         
          
 
    DATED this 19th day of June, 2025
                                                      
PLAIN CITY, a municipal corporation
____________________________________
MAYOR – Jon Beesley
 
ATTESTED AND RECORDED:
 
____________________________________
Diane Hirschi, CMC
CITY RECORDER
 
 
 
 
 
 
                     
ORDINANCE # 2025-08
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF PLAIN CITY, UTAH AMENDING THE CITY’S BUILDING REGULATIONS TITLE
9 CHAPTER 1 BUILDING CODE; AND ESTABLISHING AN EFFECTIVE DATE
 
Section 1.   Recitals
 
WHEREAS, The City Council finds, that the City of PLAIN CITY (herein “City”) is
a municipal corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State
of Utah; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that in conformance with the provisions of UCA
§ 10-3-717, the governing body of the city may exercise all administrative
powers; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that in conformance with the provisions of UCA
§ 10-3-702, the governing body of the City may pass any ordinance to regulate,
require, prohibit, govern, control, or supervise any activity, business,
conduct or condition authorized by State law or any other provision of law; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that this issue has been reviewed by the
Planning Commission and certain recommendations made by them; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the public health, welfare and safety are
at issue in this matter; now,
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of PLAIN CITY as follows:
 
Section 2.        City’s Building Code Ordinance Amended.
 
 
The following amends and entirely replaces Plain City Code Title 9 Chapter 1:
 
TITLE 9 BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1 BUILDING CODE
 
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Building Official
9-1-3: Building Permit Required
9-1-4: Fee Schedule
9-1-5: Ditches
9-1-6: Limitation On Plan Check Fees
9-1-7: Penalty; Exception
 
9-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
 
   A.   Adopted: Pursuant to the terms of Utah Code Annotated section 58-56-4
(2) and Utah administrative code section R156-56-701, the city hereby adopts
the international building code (IBC), as modified by chapter 11 of the
supplement to the international building code, promulgated by the International
Code Council, and amendments thereto as adopted under the Utah administrative
code, together with standards incorporated into the IBC by reference,
including, but not limited to, the international energy conservation code
(IECC) promulgated by the International Code Council and the international
residential code 1 (IRC) promulgated by the International Code Council. (1982
Code § 9-531; amd. Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-2002, eff. 4-18-2002; 2003 Code)
   B.   IBC Amendments: The IBC adopted in subsection A of this section is
amended by the statewide amendments contained in Utah administrative code
section R156-56-704. All of those amendments included in said section R156-56-
704 are hereby incorporated into this section by this reference.
   C.   Update Of Amendments: The amendments adopted in subsection B of this
section shall be automatically updated whenever additional amendments are
adopted by the division of occupational and professional licensing and/or the
uniform building code commission pursuant to their authority under Utah Code
Annotated sections 58-56-4(4) and 58-56-7, and added to the amendments included
in Utah administrative code section R156-56-704 as referenced herein.
   D.   Exemptions: Structures used in relation to tilling of soil, raising of
crops or keeping or raising domestic animals for the purpose of food production
and which are not occupied by human beings are exempt from the permit
requirements of the IBC. Construction, expansion, maintenance, repair or
replacement of such buildings are still subject to the permit requirements of
the other city ordinances or codes, as applicable. (Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-2002,
eff. 4-18-2002)
 
Notes
 
1 1. See also chapter 4 of this title.
 
9-1-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
 
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the position of building official who
shall also be known as the building inspector. (1982 Code § 9-511)
   B.   Powers:
      1.   Stop Order: The building inspector shall have the power to order all
work stopped on construction, alteration or repairs of buildings in the city
when such work is being done in violation of any provisions of any ordinance
relating thereto, or in violation of the subdivision or zoning ordinances of
the city. Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of such order, except on
the written permission of the inspector; provided, that if the stop order is an
oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such
written stop order may be served by any peace officer or other authorized
person. (1982 Code § 9-512)
      2.   Entry: The building inspector shall have the power to enter into any
building or the premises where the work of altering, repairing or constructing
any building or structure is going on, for the purpose of making inspections at
any reasonable hour, pursuant to any of the provisions of this title. (1982
Code § 9-513)
   C.   Duties: The building inspector shall, in addition to all other duties
imposed on him by the city: (1982 Code § 9-514)
      1.   Enforce the provisions of the building code. (1982 Code § 9-514;
amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Inspect all buildings, structures, ditches, signs, fences and
objects to determine their safety and effect on the persons who are within the
city.
      3.   Until such time as a plumbing inspector is appointed or designated,
the building inspector shall be responsible for enforcing chapter 3 of this
title.
      4.   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building site is in a location
that has a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or substantial
improvement (including prefabricated and mobile homes) must:
         a.   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
         b.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         c.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      5.   Review subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments to
assure that:
         a.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
         b.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage;
         c.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
d. Ensure that public improvements required by City ordinances or contemplated
in an applicable subdivision improvement plan approved by the City are
completed before work on any buildings or other private improvements begins.
      6.   Require new or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary
sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters,
and require on site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid
impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding. (1982 Code § 9-
514)
 
9-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
 
   A.   Application And Plans:
      1. A building permit shall be secured from the city recorder on written
application accompanied by plans and specifications in duplicate, which plans
must conform to the structure and design requirements of the building code, as
a minimum.
A.   Where an applicant seeks a building permit to begin construction on
buildings or other private improvements on lots in a subdivision, the City
shall withhold said permit until:
1.   The applicable final subdivision plat approved by the City is properly
recorded with the County Recorder’s Office; and
2.   All public improvements required by City ordinances or contemplated in the
applicable subdivision improvement plan approved by the City are completed.
      2. Any permit issued under this chapter may be withheld, suspended or
revoked if any contractors or subcontractors fail to obtain the necessary
license required herein.
      3. The building inspector may issue a written certificate of exception
which may be submitted to the city recorder in lieu of an engineer's statement
if such permit is based on approval or authority consistent with the building
code. (1982 Code § 9-522; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Variations Of Plan Prohibited: No material variation from the approved
plan shall be allowed unless such variations shall first have been approved in
writing by the building inspector. (1982 Code § 9-524)
   C.   Approval Of Plan: The application and plans shall be forwarded from the
city recorder to the building inspector, who shall review the plan to determine
whether the proposed construction or alteration conforms to the building codes
and ordinances of the city. The building inspector shall return the plans to
the city recorder within ten (10) days with the statement "approved" if the
plans do conform or "disapproved" if the plans do not conform. If the plans are
disapproved, the reasons therefor shall be annexed to the plans. Upon receipt
of an approved plan, the city recorder shall issue a permit to the applicant,
together with one set of the approved plan. One set of the plans shall be
retained by the building inspector. The building inspector may revoke at any
time a permit which has been issued for any building constructed or being
constructed or which would be or result, if constructed, in violation of any
ordinance of the city. A copy of the permit shall be forwarded to the Weber
County assessor's office. (1982 Code § 9-523)
 
9-1-4: FEE SCHEDULE:
 
Fees authorized in the IBC for inspections, permits, certificates and other
purposes shall be governed by table 1-A of the 1997 edition of the uniform
building code promulgated by the International Conference of Building
Officials, or as may otherwise be adopted by the state. (Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-
2002, eff. 4-18-2002)
 
9-1-5: DITCHES:
 
   A.   Engineer Approval Required: No ditch, drain or other waterway through
which ground or surface waters from any source whatsoever collects or passes
shall be piped, culverted or in any manner filled in without the approval of
the city engineer. This includes ditches which are presently piped or otherwise
enclosed which may be opened for any purpose.
   B.   Conformance: The project shall be completed under the direction of the
city engineer and shall conform to all specifications that the city engineer
shall establish.
   C.   Permit Required: Before any person places piping, culverts, or in any
manner fills in any said ditches, drains or waterways, he shall obtain a permit
from the city recorder. (1982 Code § 9-526)
   D.   Fee For Permit: The city recorder shall collect a fee for the permit in
such amount as established by resolution of the city council, which amount may
be changed by resolution at the discretion of the city council.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this
code. (1982 Code § 9-526; amd. 2003 Code)
 
9-1-6: LOT GRADING AND DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS
A.   The following requirement is for the purpose of preventing water
accumulation on buildable lots both inside and outside of a given development.
B.   Before the city may issue a building permit for the construction of a
primary dwelling on a residential lot, the lot shall be graded such that (1)
the lot elevation matches that of all adjacent lots and (2) the slope of the
lot mitigates against water runoff into adjacent lots. In the case of a lot
that is lower than the surrounding properties, the lot must be raised to match
the elevation of surrounding properties before building may occur. All water
runoff from a lot must be either contained on the lot or conveyed onto the
street or to an approved drainage facility or easement. These requirements are
in addition to all drainage and grading requirements in the State Building Code
(see e.g., IBC J109.4 (Drainage Across Property Lines)).
9-1- 76 : LIMITATION ON PLAN CHECK FEES:
 
The city's fees for reviewing and approving plans for commercial or residential
buildings shall be the lesser of:
   A.   The city's actual cost of performing the review; or
   B.   Either:
      1. In the case of commercial buildings, sixty five percent (65%) of the
amount the city has charged for the building permit; or
      2. In the case of residential buildings, sixty five percent (65%) of the
amount the city has charged for the building permit.
   C.   The city's fees for reviewing and approving identical plans shall be
the greater of:
      1. The city's costs of ensuring that the plans are identical and
reviewing and approving minor variations between the two (2) identical
buildings; or
      2. One hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-2002, eff. 4-18-
2002)
 
9-1- 87 : PENALTY; EXCEPTION:
 
   A.   It shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section 1-4-1 of this code, for any homeowner and a class B misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code, for any person
who receives payment or anything of value to construct or alter any building or
structure, except a fence, without first securing the permit required by this
chapter.
   B.   This section shall not apply where the retail cost of the materials
used in the construction or alteration is less than five hundred dollars
($500.00), except that it shall apply in all cases where the construction or
alteration results in an enlarged structure or affects the walls of the
building or structure. (1982 Code § 9-521; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Section 3.    Prior Ordinances And Resolutions  The body and substance of any
and all prior Ordinances and Resolutions, together with their specific
provisions, where not otherwise in conflict with this Ordinance, are hereby
reaffirmed and readopted.
 
Section 4.    Repealer Of Conflicting Enactments   All orders, ordinances and
resolutions with respect to the changes herein enacted and adopted which have
heretofore been adopted by the City, or parts thereof, which are in conflict
with any of the provisions of this Ordinance Amendment, are, to the extent of
such conflict, hereby repealed, except that this repeal shall not be construed
to revive any act, order or resolution, or part thereof, heretofore repealed.
 
Section 5.    Savings Clause If any provision of this Ordinance shall be held
or deemed to be or shall, in fact, be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable for
any reason, such reason shall not have the effect of rendering any other
provision or provisions hereof invalid, inoperative or unenforceable to any
extent whatever, this Ordinance and the provisions of this Ordinance being
deemed to be the separate independent and severable act of the City Council of
Plain City.  
 
Section 6.    Date Of Effect This Ordinance shall be effective on the 19th day
of June 2025, and after publication or posting as required by law.
         
          
 
    DATED this 19th day of June, 2025
                                                      
PLAIN CITY, a municipal corporation
____________________________________
MAYOR – Jon Beesley
 
ATTESTED AND RECORDED:
 
____________________________________
Diane Hirschi, CMC
CITY RECORDER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                     
ORDINANCE # 2025-09
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF PLAIN CITY, UTAH AMENDING THE CITY’S SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
TITLE 11; AND ESTABLISHING AN EFFECTIVE DATE
 
Section 1.   Recitals
 
WHEREAS, The City Council finds, that the City of PLAIN CITY (herein “City”) is
a municipal corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State
of Utah; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that in conformance with the provisions of UCA
§ 10-3-717, the governing body of the city may exercise all administrative
powers; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that in conformance with the provisions of UCA
§ 10-3-702, the governing body of the City may pass any ordinance to regulate,
require, prohibit, govern, control, or supervise any activity, business,
conduct or condition authorized by State law or any other provision of law; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that this issue has been reviewed by the
Planning Commission and certain recommendations made by them; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the public health, welfare and safety are
at issue in this matter; now,
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of PLAIN CITY as follows:
 
Section 2.        City’s Subdivision Regulations Ordinance Amended.
 
 
The following amends and entirely replaces Plain City Code Title 11 Chapter 3
Section 3:
 
11-3-3: TECHNICAL REVIEW:
 
   A.   Process: The City periodically hosts a Technical Review Committee (TRC)
meeting. In order for a preliminary plat to be scheduled for a TRC meeting, a
complete preliminary plat application must be received and accepted by the City
prior to a date approximately one month prior to the TRC meeting at which the
applicant desires the project to be discussed. The City Recorder's Office
maintains this schedule.
   B.   Meeting With Representatives: The applicant is provided an opportunity
to meet with representatives from all applicable utilities and other interested
governmental agencies to receive comments regarding the preliminary plat
application. At this meeting, the applicant will also receive written comments
from the City, detailing the extent to which the plans are required to be
revised in order for the City to schedule Land Use Authority consideration of
their application. Extensive revisions caused by the TRC comments or by
voluntary action of the applicant, may require additional TRC meetings.
   C.   Timetables: Critical path preliminary plat processing project
timetables, including monthly preliminary plat application deadlines, TRC
meeting dates, required resubmittal dates and Land Use Authority meeting dates
are established and maintained by the City Recorder's Office. (Ord. 2017-14,
12-7-2017, eff. 12-8-2017)
    D. TRC Defined: The Technical Review Committee is a committee with
membership determined by the Mayor from time to time. The members of the TRC
may include City staff and officials as well as outside consultants and
professionals on contract with the City.
 
The following amends and entirely replaces Plain City Code Title 11 Chapter 4
Section 1:
 
11-4-1: IMPROVEMENTS AND GUARANTEE:
 
   A.   Methods For Installation: The owner of any land which has been laid
out, platted and recorded pursuant to the provisions of this title shall at his
own expense install the required improvements within a period of two (2) years
from the date the final plat is recorded. Said owner shall guarantee the
installation of such improvements by one of the following methods designated by
the City:
      1.   Deposit In Escrow: The developer will deposit in escrow with an
escrow holder approved by the City Council an amount of money equal to the cost
of improvements required plus ten percent (10%) as estimated by the developer
and approved by the City Engineer under an escrow agreement conditioned for the
installation of said improvements within two (2) years from the date the final
plat is recorded. The escrow agreement aforesaid shall be approved by the City
Council and City Attorney and shall be filed with the City Recorder. The ten
percent (10%) improvement guarantee amount will be held for one year beyond the
date of conditional final acceptance of improvements.
      2.   Financial Institution Bond - An agreement with a financial
institution federally or state insured to release certain construction funds
upon approval by the City. The amount of the bond shall be equal to the cost of
improvements required plus ten percent (10%) as estimated by the developer and
approved by the City Engineer conditioned for the installation of said
improvements within two (2) years from the date the final plat is recorded. The
ten percent (10%) improvement guarantee amount will be held for one year beyond
the date of conditional final acceptance of improvements.
3. Development and Escrow Agreements: A development agreement and escrow
agreement shall be provided for all subdivisions after final approval and prior
recording.
   B.   Default: In the event the developer defaults, fails or neglects to
satisfactorily install the required improvements within two (2) years from the
date the final plat is recorded, the City may declare the escrow deposit
forfeited, and the City may install or cause the required improvements to be
installed using the proceeds from the collection of the escrow to defray the
expense thereof. The developer may apply to the Plain City Council for an
extension of time of one year, with additional one year extensions after the
first extension. The Plain City Council may grant this request upon proof of
difficulty. Said extensions shall be subject to adequate security for the
completion of said improvements being made by increasing the amount of the
escrow account, if necessary. The City Council may require certain improvements
to be completed before an extension is allowed. (Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017, eff.
12-8-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-06, 4-6-2023, eff. 4-6-2023)
 
 
The following amends and entirely replaces Plain City Code Title 11 Chapter 8
Section 2:
 
11-8-2: SCOPE OF APPLICABILITY:
A.   This Chapter applies to all subdivision-related applications or petitions
where the intended use is one- or two-family residential dwellings, including
townhomes and duplexes. This Chapter does not apply to applications or
petitions for other uses. (Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024). This Chapter also does not
apply to proposals to subdivide land through a development agreement of the
type described in and governed by Chapter 11-9. (Ord. 2024 03, 3 7 2024)
The following amends and entirely replaces Plain City Code Title 11 Chapter 8
Section 12:
 
11-8-12: POST-APPROVAL ACTIONS:
 
   A.   The applicant shall record the approved subdivision plat with the
County Recorder's Office within three hundred sixty five (365) calendar days
after the municipality approves the subdivision application, provided that the
applicant has completed any improvements or posted any completion assurance
required by City ordinances (notably by chapters 11-4 and 11-5) or described in
the approved improvement plan. The applicant shall not record the approved
final plat until such improvements are completed or assured in compliance with
City ordinances and the approved improvement plan.
   B.   An approved plat not properly recorded within the timeline specified in
11-8-12 (A) is void, unless the Land Use Authority approves an extension. (Ord.
2024-03, 3-7-2024)
C. As required under the City Building Code (9-1-3), the City shall not issue a
building permit for the construction of buildings or other private improvements
in a subdivision until:
a. The approved final plat is properly recorded with the County Recorder’s
Office; and
b. All public improvements required by City ordinances or contemplated in the
approved improvement plan are completed.
 
 
 
 
The following adds Plain City Code Title 11 Chapter 9:
 
CHAPTER 9
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
11-9-1: PURPOSE
A.   The purpose of the development agreement process described in this Chapter
is to provide the City with a method of offering exceptions to existing City
land use, infrastructure, and subdivision requirements in order to attract
unique development opportunities that:
a.   Align with the General Plan;
b.   Improve more than 100 acres; and
c.   Offer extreme benefits to the City.
11-9-2: DEFINITIONS
 
As used in this Chapter 9:
A.   “Developer” means any individual or entity seeking a development
agreement, including property owners, professional developers, and agents of
the same.
B.   “Development Agreement Proposal” and “Proposal” mean a formalized draft of
a contract, not yet accepted by all parties, prepared for signing and intended
as an offer by the developer to the City or vice versa. These terms do not
refer to any Preliminary Materials.
C.   “Preliminary Materials” means concept plans and maps, term sheets, and
other documents intended as tools for discussing the feasibility of a project
and negotiating the basic terms of a Development Agreement Proposal.
11-9-3: FORM
 
A development agreement is a contract between the City and the Developer who
proposes the agreement. Subject to any applicable federal, state, and county
regulations, a development agreement may bestow exceptions to City ordinances.
 
11-9-4: LIMITATIONS
A.   The City may reject a Development Agreement Proposal at any time before
approval and for any reason, whether political or technical. Developers are not
entitled to Proposal approval, even for applications that comply with existing
City ordinances, that have been extensively discussed by the City, or that the
City initiated.
B.   If the City rejects a proposal to enter into a development agreement, the
Developer may pursue approval of the project by complying with City ordinances
and submitting the required land use and subdivision applications individually
and in compliance with all existing federal, state, county, and City standards.
C.   In accordance with Utah Code §10-9a-532(2), development agreements are
void to the extent that they:
a.   Limit the City’s future authority to enact land use regulations or other
ordinances and rules that are necessary and proper to protect property in the
City or to promote the health, safety, prosperity, morals, peace and good
order, comfort, and convenience of the City and its inhabitants; or
b.   Require the City to change the zoning designation of any land in the
future.
D.   Change of Ownership:
a.   In accordance with Utah Code §10-9a-532(2)(f), development requirements,
regulations, or controls described in a development agreement do not run with
the land and are enforceable only against the named parties to the contract.
b.   If a Developer who becomes party to a development agreement is not an
individual (e.g., where the Developer is partnership, corporation, LLC, trust,
or other entity), the development agreement shall remain enforceable against
the City only as long as the Developer, including any parent company, is owned
by the same individuals who owned the Developer at the time the development
agreement is entered into. Any change of ownership of Developer by merger,
acquisition, stock sale, redemption, or sale of more than 50% of the
Developer’s assets shall, at the City’s option, terminate the development
agreement and the Developer’s rights and entitlements thereunder. The City’s
option to terminate the development agreement for a change in Developer’s
ownership may be exercised by the City Council and shall be construed as an
addition to any of the City’s rights and remedies described in the development
agreement. The Developer shall not have a right to terminate the development
agreement in the case of a change of ownership described in this paragraph.
E.   Expiration: Each development agreement shall terminate no later than 10
years after the day the agreement is executed. Upon termination of the
agreement, all vested rights under the agreement held by the Developer or other
private parties and concerning undeveloped or partially developed parcels shall
terminate. All vested rights under the agreement shall continue on fully
developed parcels. After the agreement terminates, the Developer may submit a
new Proposal to continue developing any undeveloped or partially developed
parcels. This paragraph shall be interpreted as an addition to any termination
effects or breach of contract remedies described in the agreement.
F.   Milestones: To the extent described in a development agreement, the City
may require the Developer to meet certain milestones of development completion
as a condition of Developer retaining entitlements under the agreement.
G.   Amenities: To the extent described in a development agreement, the City
may require the Developer to construct certain infrastructure, improvements,
and community amenities and to do so prior to certain development phases.
11-9-5: CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL
A.   The City Council is solely authorized to enter into development agreements
with private parties and public entities:
a.   Through a majority vote of the Council, evidenced by the Mayor’s signature
on a Development Agreement Proposal;
b.   Following a public hearing and recommendation by the Planning Commission;
c.   After reviewing any applicable staff reports;
d.   After ensuring that adequate public notice was achieved for the above
actions;
e.   After the developer has paid all fees and outstanding invoices from the
City; and
f.   In accordance with Utah Code §10-9a-532, as amended.
B.   The City Council may amend any Development Agreement Proposal before
entering in to the development agreement. The City Council may accept, revise,
or reject any Proposal terms suggested by a Developer, the Planning Commission,
or the TRC.
C.   The City Council may review a Proposal indefinitely.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2028_9347x5891.jpg]
11-9-6: REQUIRED RETAINER AND CITY REVIEW FEES
A.   A Developer seeking a development agreement shall be liable to reimburse
the City for the City’s personnel costs incurred in reviewing and revising
Preliminary Materials and Development Agreement Proposals. The City’s personnel
costs include the time of City employees and outside consultants, engineers,
and contractors, assessed at the City’s standard hourly rates.
B.   Before the City reviews any Preliminary Materials or Development Agreement
Proposal, the Developer must:
a.   Provide a retainer to the City of at least $20,000.00; and
b.   Acknowledge in writing the City’s applicable hourly rates and authorize
the City to reimburse itself from the retainer at said hourly rates.
C.   The Developer must promptly replenish the retainer to its original amount
at any time that the retainer decreases below $4,000. Unused funds shall be
returned to the Developer at the time the development agreement is signed or
earlier at the Developer’s request.
D.   The City’s use of retained funds does not entitle the Developer to City
approval of any Proposal. In reimbursing the City under this Section and in
paying any other fee required by the City, the Developer proceeds at the risk
that the City may reject any Proposal at any time.
11-9-7: OPTIONAL TERM SHEET AND CONCEPT PLAN/MAP REVIEW
A.   The Technical Review Committee (TRC), Planning Commission, and City
Council may produce or review Preliminary Materials and provide comments on the
same to a Developer. These Preliminary Materials and City comments on,
concurrence with, or suggestions based on the same shall not in any way be
construed as binding against the City.
11-9-8: TRC REVIEW AND REPORT
A.   Upon the City’s receipt of a Development Agreement Proposal, the Technical
Review Committee shall review the Proposal for feasibility and desirability and
compile all comments into a report for review by the Planning Commission and
City Council.
B.   The TRC may discuss the Proposal with the Developer to request information
or suggest changes. The TRC may consider comments from outside consultants
contracted with the City and any City staff member or affected entity.
C.   Once the report is complete, or upon request by the Planning Commission or
City Council, City staff shall schedule the Proposal for consideration at the
next Planning Commission meeting for which adequate public notice can be
achieved.
11-9-9: PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMENDATION
A.   The Planning Commission shall review all Development Agreement Proposals
and shall provide a recommendation on the same to the City Council. The
recommendation may be for, against, or for with modifications and must include
all written and oral objections received from the public.
B.   Before providing its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing and consider all written and oral objections received at the
public hearing.
11-9-10: PUBLIC NOTICE
 
All public meetings and hearings by the City to consider a Development
Agreement Proposal must be noticed as if the meetings and hearings were
intended to adopt or amend a land use regulation under Utah Code §10-9a-205.
 
 
11-9-11: RECORDING
City staff shall cause any fully executed development agreement to be recorded
in the County Recorder’s Office.
 
Section 3.    Prior Ordinances And Resolutions  The body and substance of any
and all prior Ordinances and Resolutions, together with their specific
provisions, where not otherwise in conflict with this Ordinance, are hereby
reaffirmed and readopted.
 
Section 4.    Repealer Of Conflicting Enactments   All orders, ordinances and
resolutions with respect to the changes herein enacted and adopted which have
heretofore been adopted by the City, or parts thereof, which are in conflict
with any of the provisions of this Ordinance Amendment, are, to the extent of
such conflict, hereby repealed, except that this repeal shall not be construed
to revive any act, order or resolution, or part thereof, heretofore repealed.
 
Section 5.    Savings Clause If any provision of this Ordinance shall be held
or deemed to be or shall, in fact, be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable for
any reason, such reason shall not have the effect of rendering any other
provision or provisions hereof invalid, inoperative or unenforceable to any
extent whatever, this Ordinance and the provisions of this Ordinance being
deemed to be the separate independent and severable act of the City Council of
Plain City.  
 
Section 6.    Date Of Effect This Ordinance shall be effective on the 19th day
of June 2025, and after publication or posting as required by law.
         
          
 
    DATED this 19th day of June, 2025
                                                      
PLAIN CITY, a municipal corporation
____________________________________
MAYOR – Jon Beesley
 
ATTESTED AND RECORDED:
 
____________________________________
Diane Hirschi, CMC
CITY RECORDER
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-12
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTERS 11-1-2 AND 11-5-3 OF THE PLAIN CITY CODE IN
REGARD TO CUL-DE-SACS
 
   WHEREAS, Chapter 11-1-2 of the Plain City Code addresses the definition of a
cul-de-sac; and
 
   WHEREAS, Chapter 11-5-3 addresses the dimension requirements of cul-de-sacs
within Plain City as well as draining requirements; and
   
   WHEREAS, the Plain City Council, in coordination with the Plain City
Planning Commission, wishes to clarify these codified requirements for cul-de-
sacs.
 
   NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Plain City, Utah:
 
1.   Chapters 11-1-2 and 11-5-3 of the Plain City Code are hereby amended as
shown in Exhibit A, which is attached below and is incorporated into this
ordinance.
2.   The codifier is hereby directed to ensure that this ordinance is codified
in a manner that is consistent with the numbering conventions of the Plain City
Code, including making any necessary changes to the numbering of sections and
subsections.
 
This Ordinance shall be effective immediately after publication in accordance
with Utah Code. 10-3-711.
 
   PASSED, ADOPTED, AND A SYNOPSIS ORDERED PUBLISHED this 18th day of September
2025.
 
Signed on Behalf of PLAIN CITY
 
By ________________________________
   
Jon Beesley, Mayor
 
 
ATTEST:
 
________________________________________
Diane Hirschi, CMC
City Recorder
EXHIBIT A
Amendments to Chapters 11-1-2 and 11-5-3 of the Plain City Code
with changes marked in red and strikethroughs
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-13
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 10-6-1 OF THE PLAIN CITY CODE
 
   WHEREAS, Section 10-6-1 addresses certain uses in commercial zones; and
   
   WHEREAS, the Plain City Council, in coordination with the Plain City
Planning Commission, wishes to modify the use of archery shops and ranges
within commercial zones and address the use of shooting ranges within said
zones.
 
   NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Plain City, Utah:
 
1.   Section 10-6-1.A. of the Plain City Code is hereby amended as shown in
Exhibit A, which is attached below and is incorporated into this ordinance.
2.   The codifier is hereby directed to ensure that this ordinance is codified
in a manner that is consistent with the numbering conventions of the Plain City
Code, including making any necessary changes to the numbering of sections and
subsections.
 
This Ordinance shall be effective immediately after publication in accordance
with Utah Code. 10-3-711.
 
   PASSED, ADOPTED, AND A SYNOPSIS ORDERED PUBLISHED this 2nd day of
___October___________ 2025.
 
Signed on Behalf of PLAIN CITY
 
By ________________________________
   
Jon Beesley, Mayor
 
 
ATTEST:
 
________________________________________
Diane Hirschi
City Recorder
EXHIBIT A
Amendments1  to Section 10-6-1.A. of the Plain City Code
with changes marked in red and strikethroughs
 
 
Antique and import shop                                               C P P
Archery shop and range, provided conducted within completely enclosed C C C
building
Art and artists supply store                                          C P P
 
 
 
Shooting gallery      N N C
Shooting range        N N C
Sign - graphic design N C C
 
 
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Incorporation Of Statutes
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Plain City. This city
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the PLAIN CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (1982 Code § 1-001; amd. 2003
Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2003 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2003 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city
recorder. Any person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every
effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of
the city recorder. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and
shall be returned to the office of the city recorder when directed so to do by
order of the city council. (2003 Code)
1-1-5: INCORPORATION OF STATUTES:
Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or construed
to include, incorporate or make the citation or statute part of this code
unless the provisions of this code specifically include, incorporate or make
the citation or statute part of this code by reference or incorporation, and
any such reference or citation not specifically included or incorporated may be
changed, amended or deleted without publication upon an order of the city
council. (1982 Code § 1-009)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the city passed prior
to the adoption of this city code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this city code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; zoning ordinances; and all special ordinances.
(1982 Code § 1-002; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (1982 Code § 1-003)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2003 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2003 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1982 Code § 1-007; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. The use of any
verb in the present tense shall include the future and past tense when
applicable. (2003 Code)
   B.   All words and phrases shall be constructed and understood according to
the common use and understanding of the language; the technical words and
phrases and such other words and phrases as may have acquired a particular
meaning at law shall be construed and understood according to such particular
meaning. (1982 Code § 1-005)
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2003 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BUSINESS: Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license or permit is required by any ordinance of the
city.
CITY: The city of Plain City, Weber County, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of Plain City, Utah.
CITY RECORDER: The individual appointed to act as the city recorder of the
city.
CODE: The city code of Plain City, Utah.
COUNTY: Weber County, Utah.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Plain City".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
HIGHWAY; ROAD: Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the words
"county way", "county road", "common road", and "state road".
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation. The term "license" includes any certificate, permit or license
issued by the city.
LOCATION: Whenever any act, conduct or offense is prohibited or required and no
reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of this city.
MOTORIZED VEHICLE: A vehicle which is self-propelled and capable of
transporting a person or persons or any material or any permanently or
temporarily affixed apparatus shall be deemed a motor vehicle.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the city.
OCCUPANT OR TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS OR OFFICIALS: Any elected or appointed person employed by the city,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Whenever reference is made in
this code to a city officer or official by title only, this shall be construed
as though followed by the words "of Plain City".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and
intersections.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
TIME COMPUTED: The time within which an act is to be done, as provided in any
ordinance or in any resolution or order of the city, when expressed in days,
shall be determined by excluding the first day and including the last day,
except if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the last day shall
be the day next following such Sunday or legal holiday which is not a Sunday or
legal holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all legal holidays
shall be excluded.
WEEK: Shall be construed to mean any seven (7) day period.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer", as used in this
code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1982 Code § 1-005; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2017-03, 1-19-
2017, eff. 1-19-2017)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1982 Code § 1-006; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-3: Administrative Hearings
1-4-4: Fix It Ticket Program
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Criminal: The city council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum
class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a
term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the city
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   A municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance, except as may be
provided by state law. (2003 Code)
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days. (1982 Code § 1-322)
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor. (1982 Code §
1-323; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction. (1982 Code § 1-331; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the city, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this city has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (1982 Code § 3-332; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-703.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this city shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided. (1982 Code § 1-311)
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions. (1982 Code § 1-312)
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this city when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor. (1982 Code § 1-313)
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this city, or which is expressly designated an infraction, and
any offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this city which is
not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified, is an
"infraction". (1982 Code § 1-314)
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (1982 Code § 1-315)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 76-3-104.
1-4-3: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   Request: Unless otherwise specifically provided in any ordinance of the
city or any code adopted by reference, a hearing before the city council may be
requested by any person:
      1.   Who is denied or refused a permit or license by any officer, agent
or employee of this city.
      2.   Whose permit or license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited
from that for which it was first issued. (1982 Code § 1-411)
   B.   Form Of Request: The request for hearing must be made in writing to the
mayor or city recorder and made within thirty (30) days following the date
notice denying, refusing, revoking, qualifying or restricting the license or
permit is mailed by the city to the applicant or license holder at his address
as it appears on the application or license. (1982 Code § 4-412)
   C.   Procedure:
      1.   Time And Place: Following receipt of a request for hearing, the city
council shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and place the
hearing is to be held.
      2.   Witnesses; Evidence: At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have
the right to hear and examine any witnesses the city may produce to support its
decision and to present his own evidence in support of his contention.
      3.   Decision Of City Council: The city council shall, within ten (10)
days following the conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who
requested the hearing of the decision of the city council. (1982 Code § 1-413)
   D.   Not Additional Remedy: This section shall not be construed so as to
afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the city council, nor
shall the hearing provided in this section apply to any criminal complaint or
proceeding. (1982 Code § 1-414)
1-4-4: FIX IT TICKET PROGRAM:
There is hereby adopted and established the fix it ticket program for the
enforcement of city zoning, business license and building code violations. Said
fix it tickets shall be issued by designated personnel from the following
departments: building inspections, planning, animal control, fire department
and police department. The department director from each of the said
departments shall designate a person or persons to issue said citations when
required. After a fix it ticket is issued, the citizen will enjoy a fourteen
(14) day period in which to correct the violation before any penalty attaches.
The fix it ticket will be dismissed if the violation is corrected within the
fourteen (14) days after issuance, otherwise a court appearance, before the
justice court judge is required. A failure to properly correct the violation or
appear within the fourteen (14) days could result in further action by the
justice court, which could include the issuance of a bench warrant. In any
case, the citizen to whom the citation is issued shall be afforded the
opportunity to object to the citation and seek redress through the justice
court. (Res. 2-90, 8-9-1990; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Eligibility And Residency Requirements
1-5-2: Membership; Terms
1-5-3: Mayor As Member Of City Council
1-5-4: Municipal Administration
1-5-5: Meetings; Procedure And Conduct
1-5-6: Ordinances And Resolutions; Procedures
1-5-7: Plain City Council Rules Of Procedure
1-5-1: ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Declaration Of Candidacy: A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a City office shall:
      1.   Have been a resident of the City for at least one year immediately
before the date of the election; and
      2.   Meet the other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-
203.
   B.   Annexed Areas: A person living in an area annexed to the City meets the
residency requirement of this subsection if that person resided within the area
annexed to the City for at least one year before the date of the election.
   C.   Registered Voter: Any person elected to City office shall be a
registered voter in the City.
   D.   Residency Maintained: Each elected officer of the City shall maintain
residency within the boundaries of the City during his term of office.
   E.   Residence Outside City: If an elected officer of the City establishes
his principal place of residence as provided in Utah Code Annotated section
20A-2-105 outside of the City during his term of office, the office is
automatically vacant.
   F.   Continuous Absence From City: If an elected City officer is absent from
the City any time during his term of office for a continuous period of more
than sixty (60) days without the consent of the City Council, the City office
is automatically vacant. (1982 Code § 3-301; amd. 2003 Code)
1-5-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
   A.   Composition: The Governing Body shall be a Council of six (6) persons,
one of whom shall be the Mayor and the remaining five (5) shall be Council
members. (1982 Code § 3-105; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Election; Terms: The election and terms of office of the officers shall
be as follows:
      1.   The Offices of Mayor and two (2) Council members shall be filled in
Municipal elections held in 1977. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in Municipal elections.
      2.   The offices of the other three (3) Council members shall be filled
in a Municipal election held in 1979. The terms shall be for four (4) years.
These offices shall be filled every four (4) years in Municipal elections.
      3.   The offices shall be filled in at large elections which shall be
held at the time and the manner provided for electing Municipal officers. (1982
Code § 3-205; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Where both two (2) year and four (4) year terms are to be filled by
election or appointment, the election ballot or appointment shall clearly state
which persons are to be elected or appointed to the shorter term and to the
longer term. (1982 Code § 3-207; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Vacancy In Office: Mayor or City Council vacancies shall be filled as
provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510. (1982 Code § 3-303; amd.
2003 Code)
1-5-3: MAYOR AS MEMBER OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Administration Vested In Mayor: The administrative powers, authority
and duties are vested in the Mayor, unless the City shall have appointed a City
Manager as may be elsewhere provided. (1982 Code § 3-808; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Presiding Officer; Mayor Pro Tempore: The Mayor shall be the
Chairperson and preside at the meetings of the City Council. In the absence of
the Mayor or because of his inability or refusal to act, the City Council may
elect a member of the City Council to preside over the meeting as Mayor Pro
Tempore, who shall have all the powers and duties of the Mayor during his
absence or disability. The election of a Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entered in
the minutes of the meeting. (1982 Code § 3-403; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Voting; No Vote Except In Tie: The Mayor shall not vote, except in the
case of a tie vote of the City Council. (1982 Code § 3-402; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Powers And Duties: Unless otherwise provided, the Mayor shall:
      1.   Be the Chief Executive Officer to whom all employees of the City
shall report;
      2.   Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the City;
      3.   Remit fines and forfeitures and may release any person imprisoned
for violation of any City ordinance;
      4.   Report such remittance or release to the City Council at its next
regular session;
      5.   Perform all duties prescribed by law, resolution or ordinance;
      6.   Ensure that all the laws and ordinances and resolutions are
faithfully executed and observed;
      7.   May at any reasonable time examine and inspect the books, papers,
records or documents of the City or of any officer, employee or agent of the
City;
      8.   Report to the City Council the condition of the City and recommend
for City Council consideration any measures as deemed to be in the best
interests of the City;
      9.   When necessary, call on the residents of the City over the age of
twenty one (21) years to assist in enforcing the laws of the State and
ordinances of the City; and
      10.   Appoint, with the advice and consent of the City Council, persons
to fill City offices or vacancies on commissions or committees of the City.
(1982 Code § 3-809; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   No Veto: The Mayor shall have no power to veto any act of the City
Council, unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute. (1982 Code § 3-
404; amd. 2003 Code)
1-5-4: MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Prescribe Additional Powers And Duties: The City Council may, by
resolution, prescribe additional duties, powers and responsibilities for any
elected or appointed official which are not prohibited by any specific statute,
except that the Mayor may not serve as City Recorder and neither the Mayor nor
the City Recorder may serve as City Treasurer. A Justice Court Judge may not
hold any other City office or position of employment with the City. (1982 Code
§ 3-810; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Members Of Council May Not Be Appointed To Administration Or Employed
By The City: Members of the City Council, not working for the City prior to
their election, cannot be appointed or hired as employees of the City and,
shall not be provided the salary of an administrator. If a member of the
Council was working as an employee of the City prior to their election, they
may continue to be employed in that capacity so long as that employment does
not violate any other provision of this Code or State law. (Ord. 2017-15, 12-7-
2017, eff. 12-7-2017)
   C.   Change Of Duties: The Mayor may, with the concurrence of a majority of
the City Council, change the administrative assignment of any member of the
City Council who is serving in any administrative position in the City
government. (1982 Code § 3-812; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   General Administrative Powers: The City Council shall, from time to
time, prescribe the powers and duties to be performed by the superintendents,
supervisors, department directors and all of its officers and employees. (1982
Code § 3-813; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Personnel Assigned To One Or More Departments: The City Council may
assign any individual to one or more positions in one or more departments.
(1982 Code § 3-814; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Rules And Regulations For Administration: The City Council shall
prescribe rules and regulations which are not inconsistent with the laws of
this State, as it deems best for the efficient administration, organization,
conduct and business of the City. (1982 Code § 3-815; amd. 2003 Code)
   G.   Appointed Officers; Residency Requirements: The City Council may
require by ordinance that any or all appointed officers reside in the City.
(1982 Code § 3-816; amd. 2003 Code)
1-5-5: MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   The City Council shall conduct regular meetings which shall be held
on the first and third Thursday of each month at the Plain City Hall, 4160 West
2200 North, which meetings shall begin promptly at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
during Mountain Standard Time and at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. during Mountain
Daylight Time, but if the meeting date is a legal holiday, then the meeting
shall be held at the same time and place at the next regularly scheduled
meeting date. (Ord. 2004-01, 1-15-2004; amd. Ord. 2009-02, 1-16-2009, eff.
retroactive to 1-15-2009)
      2.   The City Council may, by ordinance, provide for a different time and
place for holding regular meetings of the City Council. (1982 Code § 3-502;
amd. Ord. 2000-01, 1-6-2000; 2003 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings: If at any time the business of the City requires a
special meeting of the City Council, such meeting may be ordered by the Mayor
or any two (2) members of the City Council. The order shall be entered in the
minutes of the City Council. The order shall provide at least three (3) hours'
notice of the special meeting and notice thereof shall be served by the City
Recorder on each member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice
personally or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode. The personal
appearance by a Council member at any specially called meeting constitutes a
waiver of the notice required in this subsection. (1982 Code § 3-503; amd. 2003
Code)
   C.   Open Meetings: Every meeting is open to the public, unless closed
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 52-4-4 and 52-4-5. (1982 Code § 3-601;
amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Quorum:
      1.   Defined: The number of members of the City Council necessary to
constitute a quorum is three (3) or more. (1982 Code § 3-505; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Necessary: No action of the City Council shall be official or of any
effect except when a quorum of the members are present. Fewer than a quorum may
adjourn from time to time. (1982 Code § 3-504; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Voting:
      1.   How Vote Taken: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all
ordinances, resolutions and any action which would create a liability against
the City and in any other case at the request of any member of the City Council
by a "yes" or a "no" vote and shall be recorded. Every resolution or ordinance
shall be in writing before the vote is taken. (1982 Code § 3-507; amd. 2003
Code)
      2.   Minimum Vote Required: The minimum number of votes required to pass
any ordinance, resolution or to take any action by the City Council, unless
otherwise prescribed by law, shall be a majority of the members of the quorum,
but shall never be less than three (3).
         a.   Any ordinance, resolution or motion of the City Council having
fewer favorable votes than required herein shall be deemed defeated and
invalid; except, a meeting may be adjourned to a specific time by a majority
vote of the City Council even though such majority vote is less than that
required herein.
         b.   A majority of the members of the City Council, regardless of
number, may fill any vacancy in the City Council. (1982 Code § 3-508; amd. 2003
Code)
      3.   Reconsideration: Any action taken by the City Council shall not be
reconsidered or rescinded at any special meeting unless the number of members
of the City Council present at the special meeting is equal to or greater than
the number of members present at the meeting when the action was approved.
(1982 Code § 3-509; amd. 2003 Code)
1-5-6: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The city council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the city shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel. (1982 Code § 3-702; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the city council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states "Be it ordained by Plain City:";
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
city ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or acting mayor to sign the
ordinance;
      9.   A place for the city recorder to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the city. (1982 Code § 3-704; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1.   Ordinances passed or enacted by the city council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
city council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-704(1), (2), (3) or (4). (1982 Code § 3-705; amd.
2003 Code)
      2.   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the city council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance.
      3.   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become
effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days
after final passage by the city council, whichever is sooner. (1982 Code § 3-
712; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances: All ordinances, except those
enacted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-706 to 10-3-710, before
taking effect shall be deposited in the office of the city recorder and a short
summary of the ordinance published at least once in a newspaper published
within the city, or if there is no newspaper published therein, then by posting
complete copies in three (3) public places within the city. Any ordinance, code
or book, other than the state code, relating to building or safety standards,
city functions, administration, control or regulations, may be adopted and
shall take effect without further publication or posting, if reference is made
to the code or book and at least three (3) copies have been filed for use and
examination by the public in the office of the city recorder prior to the
adoption of the ordinance by the city council. Any state law relating to
building or safety standards, city functions, administration, control or
regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further publication
or posting if reference is made to the state code. The ordinance adopting the
code or book shall be published in the manner provided in Utah Code Annotated
sections 10-3-709 and 10-3-710. (1982 Code § 3-711; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Recording, Numbering And Certification Of Passage:
      1.   The city recorder shall record, in a book used exclusively for that
purpose, all ordinances passed by the city council. The city recorder shall
give each ordinance a number, if the City Council has not already so done.
Immediately following each ordinance, or codification of ordinances, the City
Recorder shall make or cause to be made a certificate stating the date of
passage and of the date of publication or posting, as required. The record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
contents, passage and publication or posting of the ordinance or codification.
(1982 Code § 3-713; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   The City Recorder, insofar as possible, shall assign all ordinances
of a general nature a number, which shall conform to the numbering system set
out in subsection E3 of this section, and shall indicate upon the face of the
ordinance the date adopted.
      3.   The City Recorder shall keep all ordinances of a local, private or
temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedication, bond issues and tax
levies, in a separate book of "special ordinances" properly indexed and
organized according to date adopted. The first number of such an ordinance
shall be the last two (2) digits of the year the ordinance is adopted, followed
by a dash which is followed by a number indicating the order in which such
special ordinance was adopted during the year.
      4.   Failure to comply with this subsection shall not affect or render
invalid any ordinance of the City. (1982 Code § 1-008; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Resolutions:
      1.   Purpose: Unless otherwise required by law, the City Council may
exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited
to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage collection
and fees charged for City services; c) establishing personnel policies and
guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the City property.
Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution. (1982 Code §
3-717; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Form: Any resolution passed by the City Council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
(1982 Code § 3-718; amd. 2003 Code)
      3.   Publication; Effective Date: Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect on passage or at a later
date as the City Council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (1982 Code § 3-
719; amd. 2003 Code)
1-5-7: PLAIN CITY COUNCIL RULES OF PROCEDURE:
Rule I: Mayor As Chair Of The City Council.
      1.      The Mayor is the Chair of the Council and presides at all Council
meetings.
         a.   Except as provided in subsection 1b of this rule the Mayor is a
non-voting member of the Council;
         b.   The Mayor is a voting member of the Council:
   i. On each matter for which there is a tie vote of the other Council members
present at a Council meeting; or, when the Council is voting on:
      1.   An ordinance that enlarges or restricts the Mayor's powers, duties,
or functions.
      2.      If the Mayor is absent, unable or refuses to act, the "Mayor Pro
Tempore", will:
         a.   Preside at a Council meeting; and
         b.   Perform, during the Mayor's absence, disability, or refusal to
act, the duties and functions of the Mayor.
      3.      The Mayor shall sign:
         a.   All ordinances and resolutions passed by the Council;
         b.   All official minutes of City Council meetings after such minutes
have been approved; and
         c.   All correspondence determined by the Council to be representative
of the group as a whole.
      4.      The Mayor shall receive all messages and communications addressed
to the Council as a body and shall be responsible to convey all such messages
and communications to the other members of the Council. Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3b-302.
Rule II: Open And Public Meetings.
      1.      Every meeting of the City Council shall comply with the "Open and
Public Meetings Act" Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-101, et seq.
      2.      The Council shall give at least twenty four (24) hours advance
notice of its meetings unless an exception for shorter notice is provided under
State law.
      3.      The notice shall include:
         a.   The meeting agenda;
         b.   The date of the meeting;
         c.   The time of the meeting; and
         d.   The location of the meeting.
      4.      At least once per year, the City Council shall give public notice
of its annual meeting schedule.
      5.      Notices of meetings shall be published in compliance with Utah
Code Annotated section 52-4-202.
Rule III: Types Of City Council Meetings.
The following are the types of Council meetings that may be called or
scheduled:
Regular Council meetings
Work meetings
Special meetings
Emergency meetings
Closed meetings (executive session)
Public hearings
      1.      Regular Council meetings will be held at City Hall, two (2) times
per month, usually the first and third Thursdays, unless otherwise calendared.
      2.      Work meetings may be scheduled by the Mayor, as needed, once or
more times per month.
         a.   Work meetings can serve the purpose of further discussion or
study of items already before the Council for action.
         b.   After discussion at a work meeting, items will be referred:
            i. To a future work meeting if the matter needs further work by the
Council; or
            ii. To a future regular Council meeting to be considered as Council
business or, if the matter is ready for final action, to the consent agenda.
         c.   Generally, no action will be taken on items discussed at a work
meeting; however, the Council may make an exception and suspend its rules to
vote on matters under discussion if two-thirds (2/3) of the Council members in
attendance vote to suspend the rules.
         d.   During a work meeting the Council members and the Mayor may sit
around a conference table, rather than at the dais, to provide a more informal
atmosphere and to allow a freer exchange of ideas.
      3.      Special Council meetings may be ordered by the Mayor or by any
two (2) members of the Council if the business of the City requires it. The
order will be entered in the minutes of the City Council and shall provide at
least three (3) hours' notice in advance of the meeting. The notice shall be
served by the City Recorder on each Council member who did not sign the order
by delivering the notice personally or by leaving it at the Council member's
usual place of abode. Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-502.
      4.      Emergency meetings may be called by the Mayor or by one member of
the Council for matters of an emergency or urgent matter. An attempt will be
made to notify all Council members. The best practicable notice of the
emergency meeting shall be given. A majority of the Council must vote to hold
the emergency meeting. Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-502.
      5.      Closed meetings may be held to consider certain sensitive matters
as allowed by State law.
         a.   Closed meetings are allowed for these purposes:
            i. Discussion of the character, professional competence, or
physical or mental health of an individual;
            ii. Strategy sessions to discuss collective bargaining;
            iii. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent
litigation;
            iv. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease
of real property, including any form of a water right or water shares, if
public discussion of the transaction would:
      1.   Disclose the appraisal or estimated value of the property under
consideration; or
      2.   Prevent the City from completing the transaction on the best
possible terms.
            v. Strategy sessions to discuss the sale of real property,
including any form of a water right or water shares, if:
      1.   Public discussion of the transaction would:
         (a) Disclose the appraisal or estimated value of the property under
consideration; or
         (b) Prevent the City from completing the transaction on the best
possible terms; and
      2.   The City Council previously gave public notice that the property
would be offered for sale; and
      3.   The terms of the sale are publicly disclosed before the City Council
approves the sale;
            vi. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices,
or systems; and
            vii. Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct.
         b.   Closed meetings may be held if:
   i. A quorum is present;
   ii. The meeting is an open meeting for which proper notice has been given;
and
   iii. Two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the City Council present at the open
meeting vote to approve closing the meeting.
         c.   Each matter discussed in the closed meeting must be permitted by
State law.
         d.   No ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, contract, or
appointment may be approved at a closed meeting.
         e.   The following information shall be publicly announced and entered
on the minutes of the open meeting at which the closed meeting was approved:
   i. The reason or reasons for holding the closed meeting;
   ii. The location where the closed meeting will be held; and
   iii. The vote by name, of each member of the City Council, either for or
against the motion to hold the closed meeting. Utah Code Annotated section 52-
4-205.
      6.      Public hearings are generally part of a scheduled and noticed
regular Council meeting and shall consist of those items for which the Council
would like to receive public input. Public hearings will be held after
providing proper notice as required by State law or City ordinance for the
particular subject matter to be addressed. Such hearings shall include, but not
be limited to, those matters for which a public hearing is required by State
law or City ordinance. Matters for which State law or City ordinance requires a
public hearing will be automatically scheduled by City administration or Mayor.
By majority vote, the Council can direct City administration or Mayor to
schedule a public hearing on any other topic.
         a.   When a public hearing is held, a member of the City staff having
knowledge about the issue will first present information on the issue and
answer questions.
         b.   The Mayor will then strike the gavel and declare the public
hearing open.
         c.   At that point, all parties interested in addressing the issue are
invited to speak before any discussion is held by the Council and before
motions are made.
         d.   Each individual who speaks will state his or her name and address
before proceeding. They will be limited to three (3) minutes.
         e.   After all individuals who desire to speak have spoken, the Mayor
will again strike the gavel and declare the public hearing closed.
         f.   In the alternative, the Council may vote to continue a public
hearing to a future specified date, time and location if there is insufficient
time to take all public comment at that particular Council meeting.
         g.   After the public hearing is closed, the City Council then
proceeds with its discussion on the matter. When discussion by the Council is
finished, a motion is made and seconded concerning the item. The Council will
vote to:
   i. Postpone action on the item until the next regular Council meeting;
   ii. Take it to a work meeting for further discussion; or
   iii. Immediately take final action on the matter.
Rule IV: Quorum Requirements, Voting And Electronic Meetings.
      1.   A quorum of the City Council must be in attendance in order to hold
any meeting of the City Council and to transact the business of the City.
      2.   A quorum consists of three (3) members of the City Council,
excluding the Mayor. Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-504.
      3.   No ordinance or resolution may be adopted by an affirmative vote of
less than three (3) members of the City Council.
      4.   If an insufficient number of Council members are present to adopt a
measure, the vote may be postponed to a future meeting. Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-507.
      5.   Voting shall take place by "roll call vote" for any ordinance,
resolution or other item that will create a liability of the City or by request
of any member of the City Council on any other matter. Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-506.
      6.   Any Council member can change his or her vote before the results of
the vote are announced.
      7.   At the conclusion of the vote on a matter, a Council member may
state a point of personal privilege and give an explanation of his or her vote.
      8.   Any Council member can abstain from a vote. An abstention is not
counted as a "yes" vote or a "no" vote.
      9.   When a Council member abstains from voting, as a common courtesy, he
or she should state a point of personal privilege and give an explanation of
such abstention.
      10.   Every Council member who is in the Council Chambers when a question
is stated from the Mayor shall vote; but no Council member shall be obliged to
vote upon any question unless he or she is within the Council Chambers when his
or her name is called.
      11.   Any Council member entering the chambers after the question is
stated, but before it is decided, may have the question stated, cast his or her
vote and be counted.
      12.   Council members attending a meeting by way of electronic
communication shall be considered "within the Council Chambers" for purposes of
voting.
      13.   The City Council may compel the attendance of its own members at
its meetings and provide penalties it considers necessary for the failure to
comply with an exercise of the authority to compel attendance. Utah Code
Annotated section 10-3-505.
      14.   Council members located in a remote location are permitted to
participate in a Council meeting by way of electronic communication, up to a
maximum of two (2) times per calendar year per Council member. The Council may
permit one or two (2) Council members located in a remote location to
participate in a Council meeting by way of electronic communication.
      15.   Prior to permitting a Council member located in a remote location
to participate electronically in a Council meeting, the following conditions
shall be met:
         a.   A Council member who desires to participate in a Council meeting
from a remote location shall make a request to the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem a
minimum of twenty four (24) hours prior to the Council meeting;
         b.   The City Recorder will affirm that proper notice of the intent to
hold an "electronic meeting" was given as provided in paragraph 16 of this
rule;
         c.   The City Recorder will verify that an electronic connection is
available sufficient to allow the remotely situated Council member to hear the
discussion occurring in the anchor Council meeting location and to be heard in
the anchor location;
         d.   A quorum of the Council must be in attendance at the anchor
location, which shall be the Council Chambers at City Hall; and
      16.   Notice of the intent to permit a remotely situated Council member
to participate in a Council meeting electronically will be made in accordance
with the Open and Public Meetings Act ("the Act"). The notice will describe how
the remotely situated Council member will be connected to the Council meeting.
In addition to meeting all other requirements of the Act, the notice shall be
posted at the anchor location and distributed to City Council at least twenty
four (24) hours in advance of the meeting.
      17.   Due to the inherent difficulty of controlling confidentiality when
a meeting is carried electronically to a remote location, participation by a
Council member electronically at a closed meeting is prohibited.
Rule V: Order Of Business And Organization Of Council Agenda.
      1.   The City Council will consider business in the following order:
         a.   Opening ceremonies:
            i. Welcome;
            ii. Moment of reflection;
            iii. Pledge of Allegiance;
         b.   Public comments;
         c.   Active agenda;
         d.   Council comments;
         e.   Adjournment.
      2.   The Mayor, by polling the Council members, may, by affirmative
consensus, proceed out of order to any order of business or return to an order
already past. If two (2) or more Council members oppose, the original agenda
will be followed.
      3.   Matters appearing on the agenda may be discussed by the Council
prior to any motion being made.
Rule VI: Conducting Of Meetings And Agenda Definitions.
      1.   Opening Ceremonies:
         a.   Welcome: The Mayor will strike the gavel, call the meeting to
order, welcome those in attendance and acknowledge visitors;
         b.   Moment Of Reflection: The Mayor and Council members alternate
presenting a moment of reflection, appropriate for the occasion which is
intended to set the tone for the meeting; the moment of reflection may consist
of a prayer, quote, thought, etc., of the elected official's choosing;
         c.   Pledge Of Allegiance: The assigned City official shall lead the
audience in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
      2.   Public Comments/Questions:
         a.   Time is made available for anyone in the audience to address the
Council and/or Mayor concerning matters pertaining to City business.
         b.   When a member of the audience addresses the Mayor and/or Council,
he or she will come to the podium and state his or her name and address.
         c.   Citizens will be asked to limit their remarks/questions to three
(3) minutes each.
         d.   The Mayor shall have discretion as to who will respond to a
comment/question.
         e.   In all cases the criteria for response will be that comments/
questions must be pertinent to City business, that there are no argumentative
questions and no personal attacks.
         f.   Some comments/questions may have to wait for a response until the
next regular Council meeting.
         g.   The Mayor will inform a citizen when he or she has used the
allotted time.
      3.   Active Agenda:
         a.   This is the portion of the agenda where the official business of
the City will be taken up in the order that items are listed on the agenda.
         b.   The Mayor will ask for a motion on any items listed under this
section of the agenda, after discussion has concluded.
      4.   Council Comments:
         a.   The Mayor may invite City staff to comment at this time.
         b.   The Mayor will offer each member of the Council an opportunity to
make concluding comments then the Mayor will make any comments he or she feels
are appropriate.
      5.   Adjournment:
         a.   The Mayor will ask for a motion to adjourn and after a motion and
second will put the motion to a voice vote;
         b.   After affirmative consensus vote on the motion, the Mayor will
strike the gavel and declare the meeting adjourned.
Rule VII: Motions.
      1.   Matters appearing on the agenda can be discussed by the Council
prior to a motion being made.
      2.   After a matter has been discussed by the Council, the Mayor will ask
for a motion on the matter, and a second to the motion.
      3.   The Mayor will:
         a.   Announce the author of the motion;
         b.   Restate the motion;
         c.   Announce who seconded the motion;
         d.   Ask if there is a question on the motion; and
         e.   Call for a vote on the motion.
      4.   If further Council discussion is needed on a motion, the author of
such motion is allowed to speak first and all other Council members are allowed
to address the issue after that.
      5.   The author of the motion is also allowed to make a summation.
      6.   The author of a motion may amend or withdraw that motion before it
has been voted on.
      7.   Technically, after a motion has been stated by the Mayor, that
motion belongs to the Council and it requires a majority vote to withdraw it;
in practice, however, the Council allows the author of a motion to withdraw it
unless another Council member objects.
      8.   A motion dies which fails to receive a "second".
      9.   A Council member may make a motion to reconsider an item already
voted on at a prior meeting.
      10.   A motion to reconsider must be made by a member present and voting
on the prevailing side of the original motion and shall require the affirmative
vote of a majority of the Council members present and voting.
      11.   Any action taken by the Council shall not be reconsidered or
rescinded at a special meeting unless the number of members of the Council
present at the special meeting is equal to or greater than the number of
members present at the meeting when the action was approved or disapproved.
Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-508.
      12.   An item to be reconsidered shall appear on the active agenda and
shall be identified as "Reconsideration of .... (the title of the matter
previously voted upon)".
      13.   Discussion of the substance of matter to be reconsidered shall
occur only after a motion to reconsider has been successfully approved by a
majority of the Council present and voting.
      14.   Other than the main motion, the most common motion used by the
Council is a motion to amend. The intent of an amendment is to modify the
original motion by inserting, adding to, striking out, and striking out and
inserting language in the original motion. A motion to amend a main motion
should relate to the same subject as the main motion. This ensures that the
Council will vote on one matter at a time.
      15.   A motion to amend should not have as its intent a reversal of the
main motion. For example, if the main motion is to adopt an ordinance, it is
not a proper motion to submit an amendment to "not" adopt the ordinance.
      16.   Substitute motions are a type of amendment motion. The difference
is the striking out of an entire paragraph or more from the motion, (or
ordinance), and substituting different language.
      17.   Amendments to the main motion are discussed and voted on before the
main motion. Only the amendment is discussed - not the main motion. If the
amendment fails, then discussion and voting on the main motion, as originally
stated, follows. If the amended motion passes, the amended motion becomes the
main motion.
      18.   The Mayor will proceed with an amendment motion in the same manner
as a main motion.
      19.   In conducting a Council discussion on an amendment motion, the
author of such motion is allowed to speak first. All other Council members are
allowed to address the issue after that. The author of the amendment motion is
also allowed to make a summation.
      20.   Any Council member may move to amend any proposed ordinance or
proposed resolution; provided, however, that no amendment shall change the
original purpose.
      21.   Any amendments to a proposed ordinance or proposed resolution
recommended by a committee of the Council shall be made to the appropriate
document prior to its appearing on the consent agenda. Such amendment will be
noted in the Council minutes.
      22.   The Council may move to table a motion. The purpose of tabling a
motion is not to kill the motion, but to delay action until a future meeting of
the Council. When a matter is tabled, it takes all subsidiary motions with it
(e.g., amendments) to the table. A matter should be tabled no longer than
necessary; preferably it will be scheduled for discussion at the next available
regular Council meeting or work meeting so that action can be taken as soon as
possible.
      23.   The following procedural motions shall require the affirmative vote
of a majority of the Council members present:
         a.   To adjourn;
         b.   To recess;
         c.   To take up a question out of its proper order;
         d.   To move the previous question;
         e.   To postpone to a day certain;
         f.   To refer to a committee;
         g.   To limit discussion;
         h.   To lay on the table (temporary only); or
         i.   To amend.
Such motions shall take precedence in the order moved.
Rule VIII: Discussion.
      1.   The Mayor shall recognize any Council member requesting recognition
to speak, discuss, give a notice, make a motion, submit a report or for any
reason address the Council, unless a motion taking precedence is offered.
      2.   All Council members shall be allowed to speak at least once on any
subject.
      3.   During discussion, the Mayor shall be responsible for maintaining
order.
      4.   If, in the opinion of the Mayor, private discourse among or between
Council members or any other disturbance disrupts the Council's business, the
Mayor may call the Council to order.
      5.   If the Mayor calls the Council to order, all Council business shall
cease until such time as the Mayor resumes the Council's business.
      6.   Any Council member may make a motion that the Council be called to
order.
      7.   The following questions will be decided without discussion:
         a.   To adjourn;
         b.   To recess; and
         c.   Questions relating to order of business.
Rule IX: Conflict Of Interest.
Council members are required by law to file a public disclosure statement with
the City Recorder listing business interests and investments that could create
a conflict of interest with the duties of the Council member. When a matter in
which a Council member has a business or investment interest appears on the
Council agenda, the Council member must publicly disclose that interest.
Although State law does not require a Council member to abstain from voting or
avoid participating in a discussion regarding an item where there is a conflict
of interest, it is advisable to do so. Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1301 to
1312.
Rule X: Decorum.
      1.   Conduct Of Members Of The Council:
         a.   Members of the Council shall not engage in personal attacks and
shall restrict comments to issues before the body. Violations of decorum or
conduct of Council members shall be addressed by the Mayor who may declare a
Council member out of order.
         b.   The Mayor shall not engage in personal attacks and shall restrict
comments to issues before the body. Violations of conduct of Mayor shall be
addressed by two (2) Council members who declare the Mayor out of order.
         c.   Council members should avoid engaging in private discourse or
committing any other act, which may tend to distract the attention of the
Council or the audience from business before the Council, or which might
interfere with any person's right to be heard after recognition by the Mayor.
      2.   Conduct Of Citizens And Attendees At Council Meeting:
         a.   Those in attendance should be admonished by the Mayor when they
engage in outbursts without being recognized, make personal attacks, or seek to
disrupt the meeting through loud or boisterous behavior.
         b.   Individuals should be requested to address their remarks directly
to the Council as a body concerning the agenda business. Persons engaged in
disruptive behavior shall be removed by the Sergeant-At-Arms at the direction
of the Mayor.
Rule XI: Sergeant-At-Arms.
      1.   Upon request of the Mayor, a Sergeant-At-Arms will be assigned to a
meeting.
      2.   The duty of the Sergeant-At-Arms shall be to assist the Mayor in
preserving order and decorum in City Council meeting.
      3.   In the case of any disturbance or disorderly conduct within the
chambers at a Council meeting, the Mayor may request the Sergeant-At-Arms to
escort the offender(s) from the Council meeting.
Rule XII: Personal Privilege - Protest.
      1.   Any Council member shall have the right to protest any action of the
Council, stating the reasons, and having the same entered in the minutes,
provided such reasons do not impugn the motives or character of any person.
Rule XIII: Committees: Special, Ad Hoc, Joint Committee At Request Of The
Mayor, Oversight.
      1.   At the request of the City Council the Mayor may, from time to time,
create, revise, or abolish committees, or make any changes to a committee
structure, subject to a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Council, a quorum being
present.
      2.   When such committee is created, its purpose and a relevant time
frame will be established.
      3.   After the final report of the committee to the City Council, the
committee will be dissolved.
      4.   The City Council, by a two-thirds (2/3) vote, a quorum being
present, may or may not elect to formally participate, either by its own
membership or its designees, in a committee being established by the Mayor.
      5.   The Council as a whole, may resolve to sit as an oversight committee
for the purpose of investigating items relating to the conduct of City
business. However, no powers are accorded the committee other than those
provided by State law.
      6.   All meetings of Council committees shall provide notice in
conformance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
      7.   No final action will be taken by the City Council in response to a
committee report until the next regular Council meeting after the report is
presented. Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-609.
Rule XIV: Suspension Of The Rules.
No rule shall be suspended except by a motion, second and vote of two- thirds
(2/3) of the Council members voting, a quorum being present.
Rule XV: Amendment, Revision Or Addition To Rules.
      1.   Any Council member may propose amendments, revisions, or additions
to these Rules of Procedure.
      2.   Each amendment, revision, or addition proposed by a Council member
shall be in written form, and copies shall be provided to each Council member.
      3.   Consideration of any amendments, revisions, or additions to these
Rules of Procedure shall be noticed on a Council agenda.
      4.   A two-thirds (2/3) vote of all Council members shall be required for
passage and adoption of an amendment, revision, or addition to these Rules of
Procedure.
      5.   Each Council member shall have a copy of the latest edition of the
Rules of Procedure.
      6.   A copy of the Rules of Procedure will be made available to the City
Recorder, all department heads of the City, any member of the City staff, any
citizen or other person who requests the same.
Rule XVI: Time Frame For Delivery Of Information Packets To Council Members.
For each regular Council meeting, work meeting, public hearing or other meeting
of the Council, Council members will receive a packet containing the agenda of
the meeting and complete information pertaining to items on the agenda should
be delivered by Monday preceding the meeting. To allow Council members adequate
time to study the items for consideration at the upcoming meeting, all
information for agendas and packets will be delivered to the City Recorder by
the Thursday preceding the meeting or such matters will not be included on that
agenda. An agenda may be amended by the Mayor but no later than twenty four
(24) hours prior to the meeting. (Ord. 2017-10, 9-7-2017, eff. 9-7-2017)
ARTICLE A. REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Purpose
1-5A-2: Designation
1-5A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this article is to establish a redevelopment agency and
to designate the legislative body of the city as the redevelopment agency. This
is pursuant to the provisions of the Utah neighborhood development act,
specifically Utah Code Annotated section 17B-4-101 et seq., as amended.
   B.   The city council finds that in order to preserve and further promote
the continued peace, health, safety, welfare and good order of this city, that
it is necessary to create and designate the legislative body of this city as
the redevelopment agency. (Ord. 91-04, 4-25-1991)
1-5A-2: DESIGNATION:
The city council hereby establishes a redevelopment agency and designates
itself as the redevelopment agency of this city and shall have all powers and
duties as are specified in the Utah neighborhood redevelopment act. (Ord. 91-
04, 4-25-1991)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Creating Offices; Filling Vacancies
1-6-2: Compensation
1-6-3: Bond Requirements
1-6-4: Oaths
1-6-5: Official Neglect And Misconduct
1-6-6: City Recorder And City Treasurer
1-6-7: City Attorney
1-6-1: CREATING OFFICES; FILLING VACANCIES:
   A.   Offices Created By Council: The city council may create any office
deemed necessary for the government of the city and provide for filling
vacancies in elective and appointive offices. (1982 Code § 3-901; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   Mayor To Appoint And Fill Vacancies: The mayor, with the advice and
consent of the city council, may appoint and fill vacancies in all offices
provided for by law or ordinance.
   C.   Continuation In Office: All appointed officers shall continue in office
until their successors are appointed and qualified. (1982 Code § 3-916; amd.
2003 Code)
1-6-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Specified: The salary of the officers and employees of the city shall
be as established by ordinance of the city council. (1982 Code § 3-818; amd.
Ord. 94-12, 7-14-1994; 2003 Code)
   B.   Serving Two Or More Positions: Whenever any person serves in two (2) or
more positions either as officers or employees of this city, unless otherwise
specifically provided in the employment agreement, by ordinance or by
resolution, that person shall receive the salary or compensation of the office
or employment paying the greater amount.
   C.   Reimbursement For Travel Expenses: In addition to all other
compensation or salaries, any officer or employee of the city may receive,
following the submission to the city recorder of a claim, travel expenses and
per diem established by the Utah state department of finance for expense
actually incurred by the person for attending any meeting, conference, seminar
or training session, provided attendance shall have been approved by the city
council. (1982 Code § 3-818; amd. 2003 Code)
1-6-3: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Approval Of Bonds: The bonds of the council members shall be approved
by the mayor and the bond of the mayor shall be approved by the city council at
the first meeting of the city council in January following a city election.
(1982 Code § 3-822; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Premium Paid By City: The premium charged by a corporate surety for any
bond required by the city shall be paid by the city. (1982 Code § 3-823; amd.
2003 Code)
   C.   Additional Bonds: The city council may at any time require further and
additional bonds of any or all officers elected or appointed. All bonds given
by the officers, except as otherwise provided by law, shall be filed with the
city recorder, except that the bond of the city recorder shall be filed with
the city treasurer. (1982 Code § 3-825; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Bond Amounts: Before taking the oath of office and entering on the
duties of their respective office, the following named city officials shall
each give a bond with good and sufficient securities, payable to the city,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their office and the
payment of all monies received by such officers according to law and the
ordinances of the city, in amounts consistent with applicable law or as may be
established from time to time by the city council. (1982 Code § 3-819A; amd.
2003 Code)
   E.   City Treasurer:
      1.   The city treasurer's bond, or the bond of any person who acts as
city treasurer, may be set by resolution or ordinance in any amount, not less
than that established by the state money management council. (1982 Code § 3-
821; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   The city treasurer's bond shall be superseded by any rule,
regulation or directive of the state money management council when such rule,
regulation or directive is binding on the city. (1982 Code § 3-819B)
   F.   Blanket Bond: The bond required in this section may be a blanket bond.
(1982 Code § 3-819D)
1-6-4: OATHS:
   A.   Constitutional Oath Of Office: All officers, whether elected or
appointed, before entering on the duties of their respective offices shall
take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office.
   B.   Filing: The oath of office required under this section shall be
administered by any judge, notary public or by the city recorder. Elected
officials shall take their oath of office at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
first Monday in January following their election or as soon thereafter as is
practical. Appointed officers shall take their oath at any time before entering
upon their duties. All oaths of office shall be filed with the city recorder.
(1982 Code § 3-828; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Acts Of Officials Not Voided: No official act of any city officer shall
be invalid for the reason that he failed to take the oath of office. (1982 Code
§ 3-829; amd. 2003 Code)
1-6-5: OFFICIAL NEGLECT AND MISCONDUCT:
In case any city officer shall at any time wilfully omit to perform any duty,
or wilfully and corruptly be guilty of oppression, malconduct, misfeasance or
malfeasance in office, the person is guilty of a class A misdemeanor, shall be
removed from office and is not eligible for any city office thereafter. (1982
Code § 3-826; amd. 2003 Code)
1-6-6: CITY RECORDER AND CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: On or before the first Monday in February following a city
election, the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall
appoint a qualified person to each of the offices of city recorder and city
treasurer.
   B.   Ex Officio Auditor: The city recorder is ex officio the city auditor
and shall perform the duties of that office. (1982 Code § 3-916; amd. 2003
Code)
1-6-7: CITY ATTORNEY:
The city attorney may prosecute violations of city ordinances, and under state
law, infractions and misdemeanors occurring within the boundaries of the city
and has the same powers in respect to the violations as are exercised by a
county attorney, including, but not limited to, granting immunity to witnesses.
The city attorney shall represent the interests of the state or the city in the
appeal of any matter prosecuted in any trial court by the city attorney. (1982
Code § 3-928; amd. 2003 Code)
ARTICLE A. CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Created
1-6A-2: Appointment; Agreement
1-6A-3: Term Of Employment
1-6A-4: Powers And Duties
1-6A-5: Roles Of City Council And Mayor
1-6A-1: CREATED:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-830, the city hereby creates the
office of city manager. (Ord. 2000-03, 2-17-2000, eff. 2-17-2000)
1-6A-2: APPOINTMENT; AGREEMENT:
The appointment of the person to be known as "city manager" shall be made by
the city council. The city council shall direct the manner in which a formal
agreement of employment with the appointee shall be negotiated, including any
special terms and conditions of employment. Once a formal employment agreement
has been approved by the city council, the mayor shall sign the agreement on
behalf of the city. (Ord. 2000-03, 2-17-2000, eff. 2-17-2000)
1-6A-3: TERM OF EMPLOYMENT:
The city manager shall serve at the pleasure of the city council, except that
the city council may employ the manager for a term not to exceed three (3)
years. The term of employment may be renewed at any time. Any person appointed
to serve as city manager under this article may be removed, with or without
cause, by a majority vote of the city council. (Ord. 2000-03, 2-17-2000, eff.
2-17-2000)
1-6A-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Included: Pursuant to the authority outlined in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-830, the powers, duties, authorities and obligations of the city
manager shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   The administrative powers, authority and duties are vested in the
city manager.
      2.   The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the
city to whom all employees of the city shall report. The city manager shall be
responsible to the city council for the administration of all city affairs
placed in the manager's charge.
      3.   The city manager, with the advice and consent of the city council,
shall appoint (subject to the exceptions on appointment outlined herein below),
and, when deemed necessary, discipline, suspend or terminate all city
personnel. The city manager may authorize any administrative official who is
subject to the manager's direction and supervision to exercise these powers
with respect to subordinates in that official's department, office or agency.
      4.   The city manager shall attend meetings of the city council, with the
right to take part in discussion, but not to vote; the city manager shall also
recommend to the city council for adoption such measures as the manager may
deem necessary or expedient.
      5.   The city manager shall prepare and submit the annual budget and
capital improvements program to the council; the city manager shall also keep
the city council advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city.
      6.   The city manager shall notify the city council of any emergency
existing in any department under the manager's supervision and report a
proposed resolution thereof.
      7.   The city manager shall perform such other duties as may be required
of the manager by this code, administrative code or by the city council through
ordinance or resolution.
      8.   The city manager, with the advice and consent of the city council,
may designate an assistant who shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
of the manager during the manager's temporary absence.
      9.   The city manager shall carry out the policies and programs
established by the city council.
      10.   The city manager may, at any reasonable time, examine and inspect
the books, papers, records or documents of the city or of any officer, employee
or agent of the city.
      11.   The city manager shall execute contracts and agreements on behalf
of the city provided said contracts or agreements are in furtherance of matters
approved in the budget or as otherwise authorized by the city council.
Contracts entered into under this grant of authority do not require review nor
subsequent approval by the city council once the matter has been addressed and
approved in the city's budget.
      12.   The city manager shall perform the city manager's responsibilities
in accordance with the city's personnel and policy manual, administrative code,
or other instructions or directions of the city council, and shall promulgate
policies and procedures for the efficient operation of the city.
   B.   Department Heads And Appointive Officers: The city manager, after
consultation with the city council, shall have appointive, disciplinary and
discharge powers over all department heads and appointive officials, subject to
the following limitations:
      1.   The offices of city recorder and city treasurer shall be appointed
by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, pursuant to Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-916.
      2.   The office of police chief, when and if applicable, shall be
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council.
         a.   The police chief shall be under the direction, control and
supervision of the mayor on all matters except budget and finance.
         b.   The police chief shall be under the direction, control and
supervision of the city manager on issues of budget and finance, as the city
manager is the "budget officer" of the city as defined under the Utah uniform
municipal procedures act.
         c.   So long as the city utilizes the contract services of the Weber
County sheriff's office to provide law enforcement services to the city, the
administrative management of that contract shall be the responsibility of the
city manager. (Ord. 2000-03, 2-17-2000, eff. 2-17-2000)
1-6A-5: ROLES OF CITY COUNCIL AND MAYOR:
   A.   City Council: The city council shall pass all resolutions, ordinances,
appropriate funds, adopt an annual budget, set all mill levies or taxes, and
perform all duties that may be required of it by law.
   B.   Mayor: Pursuant to the authority outlined in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-830, as amended, the legislative and judicial powers of the mayor,
his position as chairman of the governing body, and any ex officio position
that he holds are reserved to his office. (Ord. 2000-03, 2-17-2000, eff. 2-17-
2000)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Conduct
1-7-2: Primary Election; When Required
1-7-1: CONDUCT:
Election for mayor and council members shall be conducted according to the
municipal election section of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-404(1) and (2).
(Ord. 95-04, 5-4-1995)
1-7-2: PRIMARY ELECTION; WHEN REQUIRED:
This section provides for the candidates for mayor and council members to be
nominated at a primary election, if required. A primary election will be held
only when the number of candidates filing for an office exceeds twice the
number to be elected. The candidates nominated at the primary election, plus
candidates that were not required to run in the primary, are to be placed on
the November ballot. (Ord. 95-04, 5-4-1995)
CHAPTER 8
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purpose
1-8-2: Statutory References
1-8-3: Definitions
1-8-4: Use Of Office For Personal Benefit
1-8-5: Compensation For Assistance; Disclosure Statement
1-8-6: Interest In Business Subject To City Regulation
1-8-7: Interest In Business Doing Business With City
1-8-8: Other Conflicts Of Interest
1-8-9: Nepotism
1-8-10: Conflicting Private Employment
1-8-11: Investments
1-8-12: Appearance Of Employees
1-8-13: Exceptions
1-8-14: No Action Determinations
1-8-15: Inducing Officer To Violate
1-8-16: Complaints; Procedure
1-8-17: Penalty
1-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards of conduct for elected
officials, appointed officers, employees and volunteers serving on city boards,
commissions, committees, agencies, councils and foundations and to require
these persons to disclose actual or potential conflicts of interest between
their public duties and their personal interests. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-2: STATUTORY REFERENCES:
Statutory provisions governing conflicts of interest are outlined in Utah Code
Annotated section 10-3-1301 through 10-3-1312. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
APPOINTED OFFICER: Any person appointed to any statutory office or position or
any other person appointed to any position of employment with the city.
Appointed officers include, but are not limited to, persons serving on special,
regular, part time or full time committees, commissions, agencies, boards,
councils, foundations created by the city council, whether or not such persons
are compensated for their services. The use of the word "officer" in this
chapter is not intended to make appointed persons or employees "officers" of
the city according to any meaning that term may have elsewhere.
ASSIST: To act, or offer or agree to act, in such a way as to help, represent,
aid, advise, furnish information to, or otherwise provide assistance to a
person or business entity, believing that such action is of help, aid, advice
or assistance to such person or business entity and with the intent to so
assist such person or business entity.
BUSINESS ENTITY: A sole proprietorship, partnership, association, joint
venture, corporation, firm, trust, foundation, or other organization or entity
used in carrying on a business.
COMPENSATION: Anything of economic value, however designated, which is paid,
loaned, granted, given, donated or transferred to any person or business entity
by anyone other than the city for or in consideration of personal services,
materials, property or any other thing whatsoever.
ELECTED OFFICER: Any person elected or appointed to the office of mayor or
council member.
IMPROPER DISCLOSURE: Disclosure of private, confidential or protected
information to any person who does not have both the right and the need to
receive the information.
MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEE: A person who is not an elected or appointed officer who is
employed on a full time, part time or voluntary basis by Plain City.
PRIVATE, CONFIDENTIAL OR PROTECTED INFORMATION: Information classified as
private or protected under Utah Code Annotated title 63, chapter 2, government
records access and management act, or other applicable provision of law.
SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST: The ownership, either legally or equitably, by an
individual, his spouse, or his minor children, or an entity he controls, of at
least ten percent (10%) of the outstanding shares of a corporation or ten
percent (10%) interest in any other business entity.
VOLUNTEER: A person serving on city boards, commissions, committees, agencies,
councils and foundations. Volunteers shall be considered "appointed officers"
under this chapter. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-4: USE OF OFFICE FOR PERSONAL BENEFIT:
No elected or appointed officer shall:
   A.   Disclose Unauthorized Information: Improperly disclose private,
confidential or protected information acquired by reason of his official
position or use such information to secure special privileges or exemptions for
himself or others;
   B.   Misuse Of Position: Use or attempt to use his official position to
secure special privileges for himself or others; or
   C.   Gifts Or Loans: Knowingly receive, accept, take, seek or solicit,
directly or indirectly, any gift or loan for himself or another if the gift or
loan tends to influence him in the discharge of his official duties, but this
subsection does not apply to:
      1.   An occasional nonpecuniary gift having a value of less than fifty
dollars ($50.00); or
      2.   An award publicly presented; or
      3.   Any bona fide loan made in the ordinary course of business; or
      4.   Political campaign contributions if the contribution is actually
used in a political campaign. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-5: COMPENSATION FOR ASSISTANCE; DISCLOSURE STATEMENT:
   A.   Compensation:
      1.   No elected or appointed officer or municipal employee may receive or
agree to receive compensation for assisting any person or business entity in
any transaction involving the city in which he is an officer unless he files
with the mayor a sworn statement giving the information required by this
section and discloses the same in open meeting to the members of the body of
which he is a member immediately prior to the discussion the information
required by subsection C of this section. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992; amd. 2003
Code)
      2.   No municipal employee may receive or agree to receive compensation
for assisting any person or business entity in any transaction involving the
city unless he discloses the information required by subsection C of this
section to his immediate supervisor and any other municipal officer or employee
who may rely upon the employee's representations in evaluating or approving the
transaction.
   B.   Disclosure Statement: The statement required to be filed by this
section shall be filed ten (10) days prior to the date of any agreement between
the elected or appointed officer or municipal employee and the person or
business entity being assisted, or ten (10) days prior to the receipt of
compensation by the business entity, whichever is earlier. The statement is
public information and shall be available for examination by the public.
   C.   Disclosure Information: The statement and disclosure shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The name and address of the officer or employee;
      2.   The name and address of the person or business entity being or to be
assisted or in which the appointed or elected official has a substantial
interest; and
      3.   A brief description of the transaction as to which service is
rendered or is to be rendered and of the nature of the service performed or to
be performed. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-6: INTEREST IN BUSINESS SUBJECT TO CITY REGULATION:
   A.   Required: Every appointed or elected officer or municipal employee who
is an officer, director, agent or employee or the owner of a substantial
interest in any business entity which is subject to the regulation of the city,
shall disclose the position held and the nature and value of his interest upon
first becoming appointed, elected or employed by the city and again at any time
thereafter if the elected or appointed officer or employee's position in the
business entity has changed significantly or if the value of his interest in
the entity has increased significantly since the last disclosure.
   B.   Disclosure Statement: The disclosure shall be made in a sworn statement
filed with the mayor. The mayor shall report the substance of all such
disclosure statements to the members of the city council or may provide to the
members of the city council copies of the disclosure statement within thirty
(30) days after the statement is received by him.
   C.   Exceptions: This section does not apply to instances where the value of
the interest does not exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). Life insurance
policies and annuities shall not be considered in determining the value of any
such interest.
   D.   Form: The disclosure statement required by this section may be in
substantially the following form:
             Disclosure Statement
    State of Utah
    County of Weber
The undersigned, being first duly sworn, deposes and states:
   1. Office. I am (name and office) of Plain City, and my address is
                , Plain City, Utah.
   2. Involvement with business entities. Below are listed all business
entities which are: 1) subject to regulation by Plain City; and 2) of which the
undersigned is an officer, director, agent, employee or owner of an interest
therein valued in excess of $2,000.00.
      a. Name of business entity:
Position held:
Projected annual income1:
Projected value of interest 2:
      b. Name of business entity:
Position held:
Projected annual income1:
Projected value of interest 2:
      c. Name of business entity:
Position held:
Projected annual income1:
Projected value of interest 2:
      d. Name of business entity:
Position held:
Projected annual income1:
Projected value of interest 2:
1 Represents salary, wages, commissions or fees reasonably anticipated in
coming year, if an officer, director, employee or agent of business entity, or
return thus anticipated if investor in business entity.
2 Represents estimated present fair market value of interest in business
entity, in the case of an investment including pension plan, but not including
insurance or annuities.
3. Nature of involvement. The following more fully describes the nature of my
interest in the above listed business entities, which are referred to by the
same letters as in the previous item.
   a.
   b.
   c.
   d.
   My commission expires:                 
The above statements are made as of the        day of              ,          .
Subscribed and sworn to before me on this        day of             ,
         .
   Notary public              
   Residing in                   
(Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-7: INTEREST IN BUSINESS DOING BUSINESS WITH CITY:
   A.   Disclosure Required: Every appointed or elected officer or employee who
is an officer, director, agent, employee or owner of a substantial interest in
any business entity which does or anticipates doing business with the city,
shall publicly disclose, to the members of the body of which he is a member, or
by which he is employed, immediately prior to any discussion by such body,
concerning matters relating to such business entity, the nature of his interest
in that business entity.
   B.   Statement Entered In Minutes: The disclosure statement shall be entered
in the minutes of the meeting.
   C.   Manner Of Disclosure: Disclosure by a municipal employee under this
section is satisfied if the employee makes the disclosure in a manner required
by sections
1-8-5 and
1-8-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-8: OTHER CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
Any personal interest or investment by a municipal employee or by any elected
or appointed official of the city which creates a conflict between the
employee's or official's personal interests and his public duties shall be
disclosed in open meeting to the members of the city council in the manner
required by sections
1-8-5 and
1-8-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-9: NEPOTISM:
No "elected" or "appointed officer", as defined in section
1-8-3 of this chapter, shall employ, appoint or vote for the appointment of his
or her father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, sister, brother, uncle,
aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-
law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law, in or to any position or
employment, when the salary, wages, pay or compensation of such appointee is to
be paid out of any public funds. It is unlawful for such appointee to accept or
to retain such employment when his initial appointment thereto was made in
contravention of the forgoing sentence by a person within the degrees of
consanguinity or affinity therein specified having the direct power of
employment or appointment to such position, or by a board or group of which
such person is a member. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-10: CONFLICTING PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT:
No employee shall engage in, solicit, negotiate for, promise or accept outside
employment, nor render any services to anyone other than the city in return for
a valuable consideration, when such employment or services create a conflict of
interest with or is inconsistent or incompatible with or tends to impair the
proper discharge of that employee's official duties or the exercise of his
discretion in an official capacity. No employee shall serve or be involved with
projects, businesses or enterprises which are subject to regulation by or which
have transactions with the city. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-11: INVESTMENTS:
   A.   Policy: Investments by employees shall be in accordance with this
chapter.
   B.   Prohibited Investments: No employee shall invest or hold any legal or
equitable interest in any business or enterprise which investment or interest
creates a conflict of interest with or is inconsistent or incompatible with or
tends to impair the proper discharge of that employee's official duties or the
exercise of his discretion in an official capacity. No employee shall invest in
or be involved with projects, businesses or enterprises which are subject to
regulation by or which have transactions with the city.
   C.   Exemptions: The following investments are exempt from the requirements
of this section:
      1.   Bank, savings and loan, or credit accounts.
      2.   Insurance policies.
      3.   Securities listed on a national stock exchange.
      4.   Investments in any business or enterprise which does not do business
in the city. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-12: APPEARANCE OF EMPLOYEES:
Each employee shall conduct his official affairs in such a manner that will
give the clear impression that he cannot be improperly influenced in the
performance of his official duties. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-13: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply, among others, to the following
employment situations:
   A.   Where the employee or appointee was appointed or employed by the city
prior to the time during which said related person assumed said public position
therein.
   B.   Where the employee or appointee was or is eligible or qualified to be
employed by a department or agency of the city as the result of his compliance
with civil service laws or regulations and merit system laws or regulations, or
as the result of a certification as to his qualification and fitness by a
department, agency or subdivision of the state or city authorized so to do by
law.
   C.   Where the employee or appointee was or is employed by the employing
unit because he was or is the only person available, qualified or eligible for
the position. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-14: NO ACTION DETERMINATIONS:
Employees may follow the procedures below to determine if their activities will
be in violation of this chapter:
   A.   Request Of Determination: Prior to undertaking any activity which may
violate the provisions of this chapter, an employee may notify the mayor of the
contemplated activity and request a determination pursuant to this section.
Upon receipt of adequate relevant information, and after any investigation
deemed necessary or advisable, the mayor may then determine whether or not the
city will take action against the employee if the contemplated activity is
undertaken, and advise the employee accordingly. In making this determination,
the mayor shall consider whether the contemplated activity violates any terms
of this section, with attention to the following particulars:
      1.   Any use for private gain or advantage of city time, facilities,
equipment and supplies, badge, uniform prestige, office or equipment; or
      2.   Receipt by the employee of any money or other consideration for the
performance of any act required of him as a city employee;
      3.   Performance of an act other than in his capacity as an employee,
which act may later be subject, directly or indirectly, to control, inspection,
review, audit or enforcement by the agency or department in which he is
employed;
      4.   The extent, if any, to which the employee will be acting under color
of city authority or subject the city to any potential liability.
   B.   Effect: If the mayor determines that no action will be taken against
the employee if he or she undertakes the contemplated activity, then no such
action will be taken, unless the contemplated activity proves to be materially
different than represented to the mayor in making the ruling, or unless
material facts were not disclosed to the mayor before the ruling was made.
   C.   Records Maintained: Complete, written records of the facts and decision
of each no action request shall be maintained and shall be open to the public
for review upon reasonable request.
   D.   No Precedential Effect: The determination of one no action request
shall not necessarily affect the determination of future no action requests.
   E.   City Council Review:
      1.   Referral By Mayor: The mayor may refer any no action request to the
city council for decision, after gathering and presenting to the council the
relevant facts.
      2.   Appeal By Employee: An employee may appeal the denial of his no
action request to the city council within ten (10) days after notification of
the mayor's decision. The employee shall then have a promptly scheduled
opportunity to present his request to the city council, and the mayor may also
speak in defense of the denial. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-15: INDUCING OFFICER TO VIOLATE:
It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to induce or seek to induce any appointed or
elected officer or municipal employee to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
1-8-16: COMPLAINTS; PROCEDURE:
If a person is charged with a violation of this chapter, the complaint shall be
filed with the mayor or city recorder. The mayor or city recorder shall
investigate the complaint and shall give the person an opportunity to be heard.
A written report of the findings and the recommendation of the mayor or the
city recorder shall be filed with the city council. If the city council finds
that the person has knowingly and intentionally violated this chapter, it may
dismiss, remove from office, suspend or take such other appropriate actions
with respect to the person in accordance with state laws, city ordinances and
city personnel policies and procedures. The city council may also rescind or
void any contract or subcontract entered into pursuant to that transaction
without returning any part of the consideration received by the city. (Ord. 92-
03, 12-10-1992)
1-8-17: PENALTY:
   A.   Separate Offense: Each day any such person, father, mother, husband,
wife, son, daughter, sister, brother, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or
daughter-in-law, is retained in office by any of said officials shall be
regarded as a separate offense.
   B.   Penalty: In addition to any penalty contained in any other provision of
law, including, but not limited to, Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1310, any
person who knowingly and intentionally violates this chapter shall be guilty of
a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 92-03, 12-10-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 9
RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-9-1: State Provisions Incorporated
1-9-1: STATE PROVISIONS INCORPORATED:
The city incorporates, by this reference, the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
section 63-2-101 et seq., or any successor legislation, as its records access
and management policy. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 10
OPEN AND PUBLIC MEETINGS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Definitions
1-10-2: Policy For Approval Of Minutes
1-10-3: Procedure For Setting The City Council Agenda
1-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply so long as
they are consistent with the definitions of the same terms found in the Utah
Open and Public Meetings Act. If a term is defined differently in the Utah Open
and Public Meetings Act, the definition found in that Act shall apply:
CONVENING: The calling of a meeting of a public body by a person authorized to
do so for the express purpose of discussing or acting upon a subject over which
that public body has jurisdiction or advisory power.
MEETING: A. The convening of a public body, with a quorum present, including a
workshop or an executive session whether the meeting is held in person or by
means of electronic communications, for the purpose of discussing, receiving
comments from the public about, or acting upon a matter over which the public
body has jurisdiction or advisory power.
   B.   "Meeting" does not mean:
      1.   A chance meeting;
      2.   A social meeting; or
      3.   The convening of a public body that has both legislative and
executive responsibilities where no public funds are appropriated for
expenditure during the time the public body is convened and:
         a. The public body is convened solely for the discussion or
implementation of administrative or operational matters for which no formal
action by the public body is required; or
         b. The public body is convened solely for the discussion or
implementation of administrative or operational matters that would not come
before the public body for discussion or action.
MEETING CLERK: The City Recorder (or Acting Deputy) for the City Council, or
shall mean the person assigned by a public body, other than the City Council,
to record and to take the written minutes of a meeting of a public body of
Plain City.
MINUTES OF A MEETING: A written record of the meeting that shall include:
   A.   The date, time, and place of the meeting;
   B.   The names of members present and absent;
   C.   The substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or decided by the
public body which may include a summary of comments made by members of the
public body;
   D.   A record, by individual member, of each vote taken by the public body;
   E.   The name of each person who:
      1. Is not a member of the public body; and
      2. After being recognized by the presiding member of the public body,
provided testimony or comments to the public body;
   F.   The substance, in brief, of the testimony or comments provided by the
public under subsection E2 of this definition; and
   G.   Any other information that is a record of the proceedings of the
meeting that any member requests be entered in the minutes or recording.
PROPOSED MINUTES: The written minutes prepared by the Meeting Clerk that have
been given to the members of a public body for their review and approval.
PUBLIC BODY: Any administrative, advisory, executive, or legislative body of
Plain City that:
   A.   Is created by the Utah Constitution, Statute, rule, ordinance, or
resolution;
   B.   Consists of two (2) or more persons;
   C.   Expends, disburses, or is supported in whole or in part by tax revenue;
and
   D.   Is vested with the authority to make decisions regarding the public's
business. (Ord. 2009-06, 8-6-2009, eff. 8-6-2009)
1-10-2: POLICY FOR APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
The following shall be the policy and procedure for the approval of minutes for
Plain City:
   A.   Written minutes shall be taken for all public meetings of any public
body of Plain City. The minutes of all public meetings of any public body of
Plain City shall be recorded and taken down by the Meeting Clerk during the
course of any public meeting of the public body.
   B.   Within seven (7) working days from the end of the meeting, the Meeting
Clerk shall prepare proposed minutes for the meeting and give a copy of the
proposed minutes to each member of the public body for his or her review and
comments.
   C.   Once the proposed minutes have been given to the members of the public
body, the Meeting Clerk shall immediately make available to the public the
proposed written minutes, which shall be clearly identified as "awaiting formal
approval" or "unapproved" or with some other appropriate notice that the
proposed minutes are subject to change until formally approved and they shall
become a public document available to any member of the public who requests to
read or copy the proposed minutes.
   D.   The public body shall consider the proposed minutes for approval at the
first meeting of the public body that immediately follows the Meeting Clerk
giving the proposed minutes to the members of the public body. The members of
the public body shall either approve the proposed written minutes as presented,
or vote to correct and amend the proposed written minutes and then approve the
corrected and amended written minutes at that meeting.
   E.   If the public body fails to consider the proposed minutes, or does not
take any action to approve the proposed minutes at the first public meeting
held by the public body immediately following the public body's receipt of the
proposed minutes from the Meeting Clerk, the proposed minutes shall be deemed
to have been approved by the public body and will stand as proposed.
   F.   Once the proposed minutes have either been approved by the public body,
or have been deemed to have been approved by the inaction of the public body,
they shall become the official record of the proceedings of the public body and
shall be signed by the Clerk of the meeting and shall be retained in the
official records of Plain City and shall be a public document available for the
inspection and copying by members of the public as appropriate under Utah law.
(Ord. 2009-06, 8-6-2009, eff. 8-6-2009)
1-10-3: PROCEDURE FOR SETTING THE CITY COUNCIL AGENDA:
   A.   Department heads and Council members must have all items and supporting
documents to City Recorder by the Thursday before the next meeting. The
exception would be if something is passed on by the Planning Commission as
their meetings are Thursday night.
   B.   During a City Council meeting, if the Mayor, or two (2) or more City
Council members ask to put an item on the agenda, the City Recorder will add it
to the list for the next regularly scheduled meeting.
   C.   Two (2) or more Council members have the ability to place an item on
the City Council agenda. The only reason the Mayor will pull something off the
agenda that was requested by City Council members, is if all of the information
related to that issue is not ready. The item will be put back on the agenda
once all the information is ready and the issue can proceed.
   D.   The City Recorder prepares the agenda with items requested from
previous meetings and/or from department heads and City Council. The Mayor then
looks over the agenda and adds or removes items for the agenda.
   E.   The agenda is sent to the City Council the Friday (but no later than
Monday in special circumstances) before the meeting.
   F.   The City Council is expected to look at the agenda and let the City
Recorder know if there are any additions/changes/alterations to the agenda by
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the Tuesday before the meeting. If there are
changes, the City Recorder will contact the Mayor for approval to change the
agenda.
   G.   Tuesday afternoon, the City Recorder sends notice out to the newspaper,
public notice website, City website, and Facebook.
   H.   Every effort should be made to have the agenda in place by Tuesday for
noticing purposes. However, in the event of an emergency, the agenda can
legally be changed up to twenty four (24) hours before the meeting. (Ord. 2018-
05, 4-5-2018, eff. 4-5-2018)
CHAPTER 11
PLAIN CITY PURCHASING POLICY
SECTION:
1-11-1: General Provisions
1-11-2: Office Of The Purchasing Agent
1-11-3: Source Selection And Contract Formation - General Provisions
1-11-4: Specifications
1-11-5: Appeals
1-11-6: Ethics In Public Contracting
1-11-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The underlying purposes of this policy are:
      1.   To ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to,
or do conduct business with Plain City Corporation.
      2.   To provide for the greatest possible economy in City procurement
activities.
      3.   To foster effective broad-based competition within the free
enterprise system to ensure that the City will receive the best possible
service or product at the lowest possible price.
   B.   Compliance - Exemptions From This Policy:
      1.   This policy shall not prevent the City from complying with the terms
and conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise consistent with
law.
      2.   When procurement involves the expenditure of Federal assistance
funds, the City shall comply with applicable Federal law and regulations.
   C.   Definitions:
    BUSINESS: Means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole
proprietorship, joint stock company, joint venture, service providers or any
other private legal entity.
   CHANGE ORDER: Means a written order signed by the Purchasing Agent,
directing a contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate
clauses of the contract authorize the Purchasing Agent to order without the
consent of the contractor or any written alteration in specifications, delivery
point, rate of delivery, period of performance, price, quantity, or other
provisions of any contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the
contract.
   CONTRACT: Means any City agreement for the procurement or disposal of
supplies, services, or construction.
   INVITATION FOR BIDS: Means all documents, whether attached or incorporated
by reference used for soliciting bids.
   PERSON: Means any business, individual, union, committee, club, other
organization, or group of individuals.
   PROCUREMENT: Means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with option
to purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services, or construction.
   PURCHASE DESCRIPTION: Means the words used in a solicitation to describe the
supplies, services, or construction to be purchased, and includes
specifications attached to or made a part of the solicitation.
   PURCHASING AGENT: Means any person duly authorized by the Governing Body of
the City to enter into and administer contracts and make written determinations
with respect thereto.
   REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS: Means all documents, whether attached or incorporated
by reference, used for soliciting proposals. (Ord. 2017-13, 11-2-2017, eff. 11-
2-2017)
1-11-2: OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT:
The Governing Body of the City shall appoint a Purchasing Agent or agents. The
Purchasing Agent shall be responsible to make procurement, solicit bids and
proposals, enter into and administer contracts, and make written determinations
for the City. (Ord. 2017-13, 11-2-2017, eff. 11-2-2017)
1-11-3: SOURCE SELECTION AND CONTRACT FORMATION - GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purchases Not Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   Purchases costing less than one thousand two hundred dollars
($1,200.00) in total, shall not require bids of any type. (Purchases shall not
be artificially divided so to constitute a small purchase under this section.)
      2.   Purchases costing more than one thousand two hundred dollars
($1,200.00) but less than four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) in total, shall
require two (2) written bids.
      3.   Purchases made through the cooperative purchasing contracts
administered by the State Division of Purchasing.
      4.   Purchases made from a single-source provider.
      5.   Purchases required during an emergency, i.e., an eminent threat to
the public's health, welfare, or safety. However, as much competition as
practical should be obtained; and, such purchases should be limited to amounts
necessary to the resolution of the emergency.
      6.   Purchases costing more than four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) but
less than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in total, shall require three
(3) written proposals and be presented to the City Council for final approval.
   B.   Purchases Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   Contracts shall be awarded by competitive sealed bidding except as
otherwise provided by this policy.
      2.   An invitation for bids shall be issued when a contract is to be
awarded by competitive sealed bidding. The invitation shall include a purchase
description and all contractual terms and conditions applicable to the
procurement. Public notice of the invitation for bids shall be given at least
twenty one (21) days prior to the date set forth therein for the opening of
bids. The notice may include publication in a newspaper of general circulation.
      3.   Any procurement in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
shall require a legal notice in a local newspaper of general circulation once a
week for three (3) consecutive weeks.
      4.   Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more
witnesses at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. The
amount of each bid and any other relevant information, together with the name
of each bidder, shall be recorded. The record of each bid shall be open to
public inspection.
      5.   Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without alteration or
correction, except as authorized in this policy. Bids shall be evaluated based
on the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids.
      6.   Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before or
after award, or cancellation of awards or contracts based on such bid mistakes,
shall be permitted. After bid opening no changes in bid prices or other
provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest of the City or fair competitor
shall be permitted. All decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of
bids or to cancel awards or contracts based on bid mistakes shall be supported
by a written determination made by the Purchasing Agent.
      7.   The contract shall be awarded with reasonable promptness, by written
notice, to the lowest bidder whose bid meets the requirements and criteria set
forth in the invitation for bids.
   C.   Public Improvement Contracts 1 : Bid limit for public improvements for
the year 2003, one hundred twenty five thousand dollars ($125,000.00); and for
each year after 2003, the amount of the bid limit for the previous year, plus
an amount calculated by multiplying the amount of the bid limit for the
previous year by the lesser of three percent (3%) or the actual percent change
in the Consumer Price Index during the previous calendar year.
All projects in excess of the bid limit shall be performed under contract to be
let to the lowest responsible bidder. If the estimated cost of the improvement
exceeds the bid limit for labor, equipment, and materials, the project may not
be divided to permit the construction in parts, unless each part is done by
contract.
   D.   Building Improvements And Public Works Projects 2 :
      1.   Bid limit for a building improvement for the year 2003, forty
thousand dollars ($40,000.00), and for each year after 2003, the amount of the
bid limit for the previous year, plus an amount calculated by multiplying the
amount of the bid limit for the previous year by the lesser of three percent
(3%) or the actual percent change in the Consumer Price Index during the
previous calendar year. Bid limit for a public works project for the year 2003,
one hundred twenty five thousand dollars ($125,000.00), and for each year after
2003, the amount of the bid limit for the previous year, plus an amount
calculated by multiplying the amount of the bid limit for the previous year by
the lesser of three percent (3%) or the actual percent change in the Consumer
Price Index during the previous calendar year.
      2.   Building improvements means the construction or repair of a public
building or structure.
      3.   If the estimated cost of the building improvement or public works
project exceeds the bid limit, the local entity shall, if it determines to
proceed with the building improvement or public works project, request bids for
completion of the building improvement or public works project by publishing
notice at least twice in a newspaper published or of general circulation in the
local entity at least five (5) days before opening the bids; or if there is no
newspaper published or of general circulation in the local entity, posting
notice at least five (5) days before opening the bids in at least five (5)
public places in the local entity and leaving the notice posted for at least
three (3) days.
   E.   Use Of Competitive Sealed Proposals In Lieu Of Bids: When the
Purchasing Agent determines in writing that the use of competitive sealed
bidding is either not practicable or not advantageous to the City, a contract
may be entered into by competitive sealed proposals. Competitive sealed
proposals are most appropriately used for professional service-type contracts.
      1.   Proposals shall be solicited through a request for proposals. Public
notice of the request for proposals shall be given at least twenty one (21)
days prior to the advertised date of the opening of the proposals.
      2.   Proposals shall be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to
competing offerors during the process of negotiation. A register of proposals
shall be prepared and shall be open for public inspection after the contract is
awarded.
      3.   The request for proposals shall state the relative importance of
price and other evaluating factors.
      4.   Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to
any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals, and revisions may be
permitted after submissions and prior to award the purpose of obtaining best
and final offers. In conducting discussions, there shall be no disclosure of
any information derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors.
      5.   Award shall be made to the person whose proposal is determined, in
writing, to be the most advantageous to the City, taking into consideration
price and the evaluation factors set forth in the request for proposals. No
other factors or criteria shall be used in the evaluation. The contract file
shall contain the basis on which the award is made.
   F.   Architect-Engineer Services: Architect-engineer services are
qualification-based procurement. Requests for such services should be publicly
announced. Contracts should be negotiated by the City based on demonstrated
competence and qualification at fair and reasonable prices.
   G.   Cancellation And Rejection Of Bids: An invitation for bids, a request
for proposals, or other solicitation may be cancelled, or any or all bids or
proposal may be rejected, in whole or in part, as may be specified in the
solicitation, when it is in the best interest of the City. The reasons shall be
made part of the contract file.
   H.   Determination Of Non-Responsibility Of Bidder Or Offeror: Determination
of non-responsibility of a bidder or offeror shall be made in writing. The
unreasonable failure of a bidder or offeror to promptly supply information in
connection with an inquiry with respect to responsibility may be grounds for a
determination of non-responsibility with respect to the bidder or offeror.
Information furnished by a bidder or offeror pursuant to this section shall not
be disclosed outside of the Purchasing Division without prior written consent
by the bidder or offeror.
   I.   Cost-Plus-A-Percentage-Of-Cost Contracts Prohibited: Subject to the
limitations of this section, any type of contract which will promote the best
interests of the City may be used, provided that the use of a cost-plus-a-
percentage-of-cost contract is prohibited. A cost-reimbursement contract may be
used only when a determination is made in writing that such contract is likely
to be less costly to the City than any other type or that it is impracticable
to obtain the supplies, services, or construction required except under such a
contract.
   J.   Required Contract Clauses:
      1.   The unilateral right of the City to order, in writing, changes in
the work within the scope of the contract and changes in the time of
performance of the contract that do not alter the scope of the contract work.
      2.   Variations occurring between estimated quantities of work in a
contract and actual quantities.
      3.   Suspension of work ordered by the City. (Ord. 2017-13, 11-2-2017,
eff. 11-2-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA 72-6.
2 1. UCA 11-39.
1-11-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
All specifications shall seek to promote overall economy and best use for the
purpose intended and encourage competition in satisfying the City's needs, and
shall not be unduly restrictive. Where practical and reasonable, and within the
scope of this section, Utah products shall be given preference. (Ord. 2017-13,
11-2-2017, eff. 11-2-2017)
1-11-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or contractor who is
aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a contract may appeal
to the Purchasing Agent. An appeal shall be submitted in writing within five
(5) working days after the aggrieved person knows or should have known of the
facts.
   B.   The Purchasing Agent shall promptly issue a written decision regarding
any appeal, if it is not settled by mutual agreement. The decision shall state
the reasons for the action taken and inform the protester, contractor, or
prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the Governing Board.
   C.   The City's Governing Board shall be the final appeal on the City level.
   D.   All further appeals shall be handled as provided in Utah Code. (Ord.
2017-13, 11-2-2017, eff. 11-2-2017)
1-11-6: ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING:
   A.   No person involved in making procurement decisions may have personal
investments in any business entity which will create a substantial conflict
between their private interests and their public duties.
   B.   Any person involved in making procurement decisions is guilty of a
felony if the person asks, receives, or offers to receive any emolument,
gratuity, contribution, loan, or reward, or any promise thereof, either for the
person's own use or the use or benefit of any other person or organization from
any person or organization interested in selling to the City. (Ord. 2017-13,
11-2-2017, eff. 11-2-2017)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Established
2-1-2: Term Of Office
2-1-3: Organization
2-1-4: Powers And Duties
2-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created a planning commission to be composed of five (5)
members and one alternate. Members of the planning commission shall serve
without compensation, except for reasonable expenses incurred in performing
their duties as members of the commission. (Ord. 2002-12, 7-18-2002, eff. 7-18-
2002)
2-1-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The terms of the planning commission shall be staggered. Each member of the
planning commission shall serve for a term of five (5) years and until his/her
successor is appointed; provided, that the term of the first members shall be
such that the term(s) of one member(s) shall expire each year. Terms of members
of the planning commission shall begin on or before the first Monday in
February of each year. The governing body may remove any member of the planning
commission for cause. Vacancies shall be promptly filled in the same manner as
the original appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term. (Ord. 2002-
12, 7-18-2002, eff. 7-18-2002)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: During the first meeting in February, a chair and vice-chair
shall be selected from the planning commission membership, each of whom shall
serve a term of one year. These positions shall expire after the first meeting
in February of that same year. The position of chair and vice-chair shall be
rotated annually among the planning commission members. According to this
policy, the vice-chair shall be elevated the next year to serve as chair. The
new vice-chair position shall be offered to the most senior member of the
planning commission who has not previously served in that position. Should a
member of the planning commission decline to seek the nomination as chair or
vice-chair, the rotation would proceed to the next most senior member. Should
members of the planning commission declare at the organizational meeting, with
unanimous vote, that due to ongoing business that would be adversely disrupted
by a change in officers, or similar unusual and rare circumstances, the
commission may, retain its current officers for a second term.
   B.   Attendance: All members and alternate are expected to attend the
planning commission meetings on a regular basis. The alternate has full voting
rights when one or more members are absent. Excessive, unexcused absences, as
that term may be determined by the adopted rules of the planning commission,
will be reported by the chairman to the city council for possible action.
Failure to contact the secretary, chairman or vice chairman prior to
nonattendance at a meeting of the planning commission is considered unexcused.
   C.   Reports: Reports of official acts and recommendations of the planning
commission shall be public and shall be transmitted by the chairman in writing
to the governing body. Such reports shall indicate how each member of the
commission voted with respect to such act or recommendation. Any member of the
commission may also make concurring or dissenting report or recommendation to
the governing body.
   D.   Meetings: The planning commission shall meet at least monthly and at
such other times as the planning commission may determine.
   E.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the planning commission shall constitute a
quorum.
   F.   Majority Vote: Actions of the planning commission shall be deemed
passed by a majority vote. A majority is a simple majority of those members
present at the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter under consideration.
The chairman is entitled to vote and second on all motions but is not allowed
to make a motion.
   G.   Minutes: The minutes of the commission shall include and shall
constitute a record of all of the decisions of the planning commission. (Ord.
2002-12, 7-18-2002, eff. 7-18-2002; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 4-1-2021)
2-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall have all of the powers and duties explicitly or
impliedly given planning commissions by the laws of the state. (Ord. 2002-12,
7-18-2002, eff. 7-18-2002)
CHAPTER 2
HEARING OFFICER
SECTION:
2-2-1: Established
2-2-2: Term Of Office
2-2-3: Organization
2-2-4: Powers And Duties
2-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the provisions of Utah law relating to planning and
zoning, there is hereby created a hearing officer. The hearing officer shall be
appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city council. The city council
may fix per diem compensation for the hearing officer by resolution, based on
necessary and reasonable expenses for meetings actually attended. (Ord. 2014-
07, 6-5-2014, eff. 6-5-2014; amd. Ord. 2020-09, 5-21-2020)
2-2-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The hearing officer shall serve for a term of five (5) years and until his
successor is appointed. The hearing officer may be removed for cause by the
city council upon written charges and after public hearing, if such public
hearing is requested. A vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointment for the unexpired term. (1982 Code § 12-122; amd. Ord.
2020-09, 5-21-2020)
2-2-3: ORGANIZATION:
The hearing officer may adopt such rules for its own proceedings as are deemed
necessary. The hearing officer shall keep minutes of all proceedings, showing
the vote of the hearing officer upon each question, and shall keep records of
its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall immediately be
filed in the office of the city recorder, which shall be the office of the
hearing officer, and shall be a public record. (1982 Code § 12-123; amd. Ord.
2020-09, 5-21-2020)
2-2-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The hearing officer shall have such powers and duties as provided by Utah Code
Annotated section 10-9a-702 et seq. (Ord. 2014-07, 6-5-2014, eff. 6-5-2014;
amd. Ord. 2020-09, 5-21-2020)
CHAPTER 3
APPEAL AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purpose
2-3-2: Standing To File An Appeal
2-3-3: Body To Hear Appeals
2-3-4: Time To Appeal
2-3-5: Burden Of Proof
2-3-6: Standard Of Review For Appeals
2-3-7: Appeal Application Fee
2-3-8: Contents Of The Request For An Appeal
2-3-9: Public Notice
2-3-10: Appeal Meeting
2-3-11: Decision Of The Appeal Authority
2-3-12: Final Decision; Completion Of Exhaustion Requirement
2-3-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a uniform appeal procedure
for land use related actions of the city. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-7-2008)
2-3-2: STANDING TO FILE AN APPEAL:
   A.   The applicant, a board or officer of the municipality, or any person
adversely affected by the land use authority's decision administering or
interpreting a land use ordinance may, within the time period provided by this
chapter, appeal that decision to the appeal authority by alleging that there is
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the land
use authority in the administration or interpretation of the land use
ordinance. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-7-2008)
2-3-3: BODY TO HEAR APPEALS:
   TABLE A: APPEAL AUTHORITY AND PROJECT TYPES
Issue Appeal Is Heard Before
Issue                                     Appeal Is Heard Before
Conditional use permit                    City council
Subdivision approval                      Appeal board
Nonconforming use determinations          City council
Variance requests                         Hearing officer
General plan amendments                   Appeal board
Zoning amendments                         Appeal board
Other issues not specifically mentioned:   
If will not be heard by city council      City council
If will be/has been heard by city council Appeal board
 
   A.   A five (5) person appeal board will be nominated for appointment by the
mayor, subject to city council approval, to hear applicable appeals as outlined
in the above chart. Each appeal board member will be a resident of Plain City
and will serve for a term of two (2) years. Each member shall be compensated
thirty five dollars ($35.00) for each appeal heard. (Ord. 2014-04, 5-15-2014,
eff. 5-15-2014; amd. Ord. 2020-09, 5-21-2020)
2-3-4: TIME TO APPEAL:
   A.   An adversely affected party must file a written appeal with the city
clerk within fifteen (15) calendar days of the land use authority's initial
decision. Any appeal submitted after the fifteen (15) day time limit will be
considered untimely and will not be accepted by the city clerk.
   B.   Appeals filed with the district court shall be filed in conformance
with the requirements of state law and court procedures. Nothing in this
chapter is intended to imply changes to, other procedures for, or otherwise
override standard procedures and time lines of the district court. (Ord. 2008-
05, 2-7-2008)
2-3-5: BURDEN OF PROOF:
   A.   The appellant has the burden of proving that the land use authority
erred. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-7-2008)
2-3-6: STANDARD OF REVIEW FOR APPEALS:
   A.   The standard of review for all appeals shall be correctness. The review
will be from the record, with deference given to the land use authority.
   B.   The appeal authority shall determine the correctness of a decision of
the land use authority in its interpretation and application of a land use
ordinance.
   C.   Only those decisions in which a land use authority has applied a land
use ordinance to a particular application, person, or parcel may be appealed to
an appeal authority. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-7-2008)
2-3-7: APPEAL APPLICATION FEE:
   A.   The fee for an appeal is one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). Payment
of this appeal application fee is required at the time of filing. A waiver of
this fee may be granted in extreme circumstances. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-7-2008)
2-3-8: CONTENTS OF THE REQUEST FOR AN APPEAL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements For A Request To Appeal: At a minimum the request
for an appeal shall be filed in writing and include the following:
      1.   The name of the person or persons filing the appeal, a mailing
address and daytime telephone number;
      2.   The project name as it originally appeared on the agenda;
      3.   The date of the original hearing;
      4.   Any required appeal application fee;
      5.   The specific issues being appealed:
         a.   The appellant must present to the appeal authority every theory
of relief that it can raise in district court. Any theory of relief presented
must be stated in a clear, concise manner clearly indicating the sought after
relief or remedy;
         b.   The appeal may not merely appeal the action of the decision
making body;
         c.   The appellant must specifically point out each error claimed to
be made by the decision making body;
         d.   Each claim of error must be supported by factual or other
relevant evidence;
         e.   If the project or application was conditionally approved and
specific conditions are being appealed, the request for an appeal shall specify
the conditions being appealed and the reasons for the appeal;
         f.   If the project or application was approved without conditions,
the request for appeal shall specify the findings used by the decision making
body that have generated the appeal request;
         g.   If the project or application was denied, the request for appeal
shall specify the findings used by the decision making body that have generated
the appeal request.
   B.   Incomplete Applications Unacceptable: An incomplete application for an
appeal shall not be accepted. Submitting an incomplete application shall not
waive, defer, or delay the fifteen (15) day appeal deadline. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-
7-2008)
2-3-9: PUBLIC NOTICE:
   A.   After giving notice in conformance with Utah law, the appeal authority
shall hold a public meeting to consider the appeal. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-7-2008)
2-3-10: APPEAL MEETING:
   A.   Not less than fourteen (14) days following public notice, the appeal
authority shall hold a public meeting to hear the appeal.
   B.   At the meeting the appeal authority shall consider the written request
for appeal, any applicable record of previous hearings, shall hear testimony of
the appellant, the testimony of the proponent, if different from the appellant,
and any comments from the public. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-7-2008)
2-3-11: DECISION OF THE APPEAL AUTHORITY:
   A.   The appeal authority may vote and announce its decision at the time of
the appeal hearing, or may take the matter under advisement.
   B.   On an appeal to the appeal board, the board may affirm the previous
decision of the decision making body, or remand the issue to the decision
making body with instructions for further consideration.
   C.   On an appeal to the city council, the council may affirm the previous
decision of the decision making body, overturn or modify the decision of the
decision making body, or remand the issue to the decision making body with
instructions for further consideration.
   D.   The appeal authority shall issue a written decision after it has had
sufficient time in which to carefully consider the appeal. (Ord. 2009-03, 3-5-
2009, eff. 3-5-2009)
2-3-12: FINAL DECISION; COMPLETION OF EXHAUSTION REQUIREMENT:
   A.   A decision of an appeal authority takes effect on the date when the
appeal authority issues a written decision.
   B.   A written decision by the appeal authority is the final administrative
procedure within the city's process and constitutes an exhaustion of
administrative remedies as required by Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-801 to appeal
to the district court.
   C.   A written decision constitutes a final action under Utah Code Annotated
10-9a-801(4). (Ord. 2008-05, 2-7-2008)
CHAPTER 4
DISCHARGE APPEAL BOARD
SECTION:
2-4-1: Purpose
2-4-2: Selection Of Employee Members
2-4-3: Selection Of Governing Body Members
2-4-4: Duration Of Term
2-4-5: Procedures And Duties Of Discharge Appeal Board
2-4-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a uniform procedure for the
selection and duration of term of the five (5) members who will make up the
discharge appeal board. (Ord. 2010-02, 3-4-2010, eff. 3-4-2010)
2-4-2: SELECTION OF EMPLOYEE MEMBERS:
   A.   Three (3) members of the discharge appeal board shall be chosen by and
from employees of the city. All W-2 employees shall be eligible for service on
the discharge appeal board. City employees shall select their three (3) members
by secret ballot with the three (3) employees receiving the most votes serving
on the board. The selection of the three (3) employees by secret ballot shall
be administered by the city recorder.
   B.   As stated in the city administrative policies and procedures manual,
the selection process shall in no way restrict a free selection of members for
the discharge appeal board by city employees. (Ord. 2010-02, 3-4-2010, eff. 3-
4-2010)
2-4-3: SELECTION OF GOVERNING BODY MEMBERS:
   A.   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall be
charged with the task of selecting the two (2) members of the governing body to
serve on the discharge appeal board. (Ord. 2010-02, 3-4-2010, eff. 3-4-2010)
2-4-4: DURATION OF TERM:
   A.   Once selected, the members of the discharge appeal board will serve for
a period of two (2) years. At the expiration of two (2) years the discharge
appeal board members' term of service will automatically expire. (Ord. 2010-02,
3-4-2010, eff. 3-4-2010)
2-4-5: PROCEDURES AND DUTIES OF DISCHARGE APPEAL BOARD:
   A.   Once selected, the five (5) members will work with the city recorder to
coordinate meetings and public notices. At their initial meeting the five (5)
members will select a chairperson to direct the process. The remaining duties
and procedures of the discharge appeal board are set forth in the Plain City
administrative policies and procedures manual. (Ord. 2010-02, 3-4-2010, eff. 3-
4-2010)
CHAPTER 5
CITY TREE BOARD
SECTION:
2-5-1: Creation And Establishment Of City Tree Board
2-5-2: Duties And Responsibilities
2-5-3: Public Tree Care
2-5-4: Pruning, Corner Clearance
2-5-5: Review By City Council
2-5-1: CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY TREE BOARD:
There is hereby created and established a city tree board for the city of Plain
City, Utah which shall consist of at least three (3) members. The board shall
include the building/zoning inspector, the public works director, and the parks
director. (Ord. 2013-05, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
2-5-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
It shall be the responsibility of the board to study, investigate, council, and
develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs
in parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented
annually to the city council and upon their acceptance and approval shall
constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the city of Plain
City, Utah. The board, when requested by the city council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report, and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work. (Ord. 2013-05, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-
19-2013)
2-5-3: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees,
plants, and shrubs within the lines of all city streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or preserve or enhance the landscaping of such public grounds.
The city tree board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or
part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature
is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other
public improvements, or is infected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other
pest. (Ord. 2013-05, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
2-5-4: PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE:
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right of way within the city
shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the light
from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so
that there shall be a clear space of eight feet (8') above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of
the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a streetlight or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign. (Ord. 2013-05, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
2-5-5: REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city council shall have the right to review the acts and decisions of the
city tree board. (Ord. 2013-05, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Assessor And Collector
3-1-3: Business License Required; Penalty
3-1-4: Application For License
3-1-5: Fee For License
3-1-6: Payment Dates
3-1-7: Certificate Of License
3-1-8: Transfer Of License Prohibited
3-1-9: Branch Establishments
3-1-10: Joint Business Licenses
3-1-11: Reciprocal Recognition; Delivery Of Goods
3-1-12: Exemptions To License
3-1-13: Revocation Or Denial Of License
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title:
BUSINESS: Includes all activities engaged in within the city carried on for the
purpose of gain or economic profit, except that the acts of employees rendering
service to employers shall not be included in the term business, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
EACH SEPARATE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate establishment or place of
operation, whether or not operating under the same name, within the city,
including a home or other place of lodging if the same is held out by
advertisements, listings or otherwise as the establishment or place of
operation of a person engaging in the business of selling tangible, personal
property at either retail or wholesale, or both, in the city.
EMPLOYEE: The operator or manager of a place of business and any persons
employed in the operation of said place of business in any capacity and also
any salesperson, agent or independent contractor engaged in the operation of
the place of business in any capacity.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Includes, but is not limited to, the sale of tangible
personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or
property and the rendering of personal services for others for a consideration
by persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business, occupation or
other calling, except the rendering of personal services by an employee to his
employer under any contract of personal employment.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate location maintained or operated by the
licensee within the city from which business activity is conducted or
transacted.
WHOLESALE: A sale of tangible personal property by wholesalers to retail
merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers for resale, and does not
include a sale by wholesalers or retailers to users or consumers not for
resale, except as otherwise specified.
WHOLESALER: A person doing a regularly organized wholesale or jobbing business
and selling to retail merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers, for the
purpose of resale. (1982 Code § 9-111; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1-2: LICENSE ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR:
The city recorder is designated and appointed as ex officio assessor of license
fees for the city. Upon receipt of any application for a license, the city
recorder shall assess the amount due thereon and shall collect all license fees
based upon the rate established by resolution. He shall enforce all provisions
of this title, and shall cause to be filed complaints against all persons
violating any of the provisions of this title. (1982 Code § 9-113)
3-1-3: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; PENALTY:
It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to transact, engage in or carry on any
business, trade, profession, calling or to operate a vending, pinball or coin
operated machine without first receiving the class or type of license required
by the city. (1982 Code § 9-112; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: All applications for license shall include:
      1.   The name of the person desiring a license.
      2.   The kind of license desired, stating the business, calling, trade or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on.
      3.   The class of license desired, if such licenses are divided into
classes.
      4.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on, giving the street number if the business calling, trade or
profession is to be carried on in any building or enclosure having such number.
      5.   The period of time for which such license is desired to be issued.
   B.   Coin Operated Machine Or Device: In the event that the license
application relates to a coin operated machine or device, the application shall
identify the machine or device to which it applies and the location thereof.
   C.   All new commercial business licenses must obtain site plan approval
from the Planning Commission before applying for a business license. (1982 Code
§ 9-116; amd. Ord. 2023-17, 11-16-2023)
3-1-5: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Fee Schedule: The business, location, trade, calling or profession of
every person engaged in a business in this municipality shall pay an annual
business license fee in such amount as established by resolution of the city
council. (Res. 97-10, 12-4-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Interstate Commerce: None of the license fees provided for by this
section shall be applied as to occasion an undue burden on interstate commerce.
In any case, where a license fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for
license to place an undue burden upon such commerce, he may apply to the city
council for an adjustment of the fee so that it shall not be discriminatory,
unreasonable or unfair as to such commerce. Such application may be made
before, at or within six (6) months after payment of the prescribed license
fee. The applicant shall, by affidavit and supporting testimony, show his
method of business and the gross volume or estimated gross volume of business
and such other information as the city council may deem necessary in order to
determine the extent, if any, of such undue burden on such commerce. The city
council shall then conduct an investigation, comparing applicant's business
with other businesses of like nature and shall make findings of fact from which
it shall determine whether the fee fixed by this section is discriminatory,
unreasonable or unfair as to applicant's business and shall recommend a license
fee for the applicant in an amount that is nondiscriminatory, reasonable and
fair, and if the city council is satisfied that such license fee is the amount
that the applicant should pay, it shall fix the license fee in such amount. If
the regular license fee has already been paid, the city council shall order a
refund of the amount over and above the fee fixed by the city council. In
fixing the fee to be charged, the city council shall have the power to base the
fee upon a percentage of gross sales, or employees, or may use any other method
which will assure that the fee assessed shall be uniform with that assessed on
businesses of like nature. (1982 Code § 9-125; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1-6: PAYMENT DATES:
All license fees shall be due and payable as follows, except as may be
otherwise provided:
   A.   Payable: Annual fees shall be payable before each calendar year, in
advance. The annual license shall date from January 1 of each year and shall
expire on December 31 of each year.
   B.   Due: Annual fees shall be due on January 1 of each calendar year and
shall become delinquent if not paid by February 1 of each year.
   C.   Issued After July 1: One-half (1/2) of the annual fee shall be payable
for all licenses issued by the city pursuant to applications made after July 1
of each year, and licenses issued after July 1 shall expire on January 1 of the
year following. Payment shall be due upon the date of application approval.
(1982 Code § 9-114)
   D.   Penalty For Late Payment: If any license fee is not paid within thirty
(30) days of the due date, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of such
license fee shall be added to the original amount thereof. No license shall be
issued until all penalties legally assessed have been paid in full. (1982 Code
§ 9-115)
3-1-7: CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: All certificates of license shall be signed by the mayor,
attested by the city recorder, and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name: The name of the person to whom such certificate has been
issued.
      2.   Amount: The amount paid.
      3.   Type: The type of license and the class of such license, if licenses
are divided into classes.
      4.   Term: The term of the license with the commencing date and the date
of its expiration.
      5.   Location: The place where such business, calling, trade or
profession is to be conducted. (1982 Code § 9-117)
   B.   Display:
      1.   Required: Every certificate of license issued under this chapter
shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall of the
building, room or office of the place of business so that the same may be
easily seen. When such certificate of license has expired, it shall be removed
by the licensee from such place in which it has been posted, and no certificate
of license which is not in force and effect shall be permitted to remain posted
upon the wall or any part of any room within the place of business. If the
licensee's business is such that a license cannot be displayed due to the
transient or mobile nature of the business, then the licensee shall carry the
license on his person, ready to be shown upon request by an authorized officer
during all such time or times while the licensee is engaged in or pursuing the
business for which a license is granted.
      2.   Coin Operated Machine: In the event the license is for a coin
operated machine or device, the certificate shall be attached or displayed in
the immediate vicinity of the machine for which it has been issued. (1982 Code
§ 9-118)
3-1-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No license granted or issued under any ordinance of the city shall be assigned
or transferred to any other person. It shall not be deemed to authorize any
person other than therein named to do business or to authorize any other
business, calling, trade or profession than is therein named, unless by
permission of the city council. (1982 Code § 9-119)
3-1-9: BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate license must be obtained for each separate place of business in the
city and each license shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the
business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner designated in such
license; provided, that warehouses and distributing places used in connection
with or incident to a business licensed under this chapter shall not be deemed
to be separate places of business or branch establishments. (1982 Code § 9-121)
3-1-10: JOINT BUSINESS LICENSES:
Whenever any person is engaged in two (2) or more businesses at the same
location within the city, such person shall not be required to obtain separate
licenses for conducting each of such businesses, but shall be issued one
license which shall specify on its face all such businesses. The license fee to
be paid shall be computed at the highest license fee applicable to any of the
businesses being conducted at such location. The sale of beer or any other
product or service requiring an additional license shall be subject to such
additional licensing requirement. Where two (2) or more persons conduct
separate businesses at the same location, each such person shall obtain a
license for such business and pay the required license fee for such business.
(1982 Code § 9-122; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1-11: RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION; DELIVERY OF GOODS:
   A.   Exceptions: No license shall be required for operation of any vehicle
or equipment in the city when:
      1.   Such vehicle is merely passing through the city.
      2.   Such vehicle is used exclusively in intercity or interstate
commerce.
   B.   Delivery Of Property: No license shall be required by this chapter of
any person whose only business activity in the city is the mere delivery in the
city of property sold by him at a regular place of business maintained by him
outside the city where:
      1.   Such person's business is at the time of such delivery licensed by
the Utah municipality or county in which such place of business is situated;
and
      2.   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of the
city making deliveries within its jurisdiction the same privileges, upon
substantially the same terms, as are granted by this section; and
      3.   Neither the property delivered nor any of the facilities by which it
was manufactured, produced or processed are subject to inspection by authority
of the city for compliance with health or sanitary standards prescribed by the
city; and
      4.   The truck or other conveyance by which such delivery is made
prominently displays at all times a license plate or symbol issued by the said
licensing authority to evidence such business license. Such plate or symbol
shall identify the licensing authority by which it is issued, shall indicate
that it evidences a license issued thereby, and shall specify the year or term
for which it is effective.
   C.   Certification Of Section: The city recorder shall, at the request of
any person, certify a copy of this section to any municipality or county of the
state to which a copy has not previously been certified. (1982 Code § 9-123)
3-1-12: EXEMPTIONS TO LICENSE:
   A.   Tax Exempt Businesses: No license fee shall be imposed under section
3-1-5 of this chapter on any person engaged in business for solely religious,
charitable, eleemosynary or other types of strictly nonprofit purpose which is
tax exempt in such activities under the laws of the United States and the
state, nor shall any license fee be imposed on any person engaged in a business
specifically exempted from municipal taxation and fees by the laws of the
United States or the state; nor shall any license fee be imposed upon any
person not maintaining a place of business within the city who has paid a like
or similar license tax or fee to some other taxing unit within the state and
which taxing unit exempts from its license tax or fee, by reciprocal agreement
or otherwise, businesses domiciled in the city and doing business in such
taxing unit.
   B.   Reciprocal Agreements With Other Agencies: The license assessor and
collector may, with approval of the city council, enter into reciprocal
agreements with the proper officials of other taxing units, as may be deemed
equitable and proper in effecting the exemption provided for in subsection A of
this section. (1982 Code § 9-124)
3-1-13: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Failure To Comply; Unlawful Activities: Any license issued pursuant to
the provisions of this code or of any ordinance of the city may be revoked and
any application denied by the city council because of:
      1.   The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the
conditions and requirements of this code or any ordinance of the city.
      2.   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where the
business is conducted.
   B.   Notice To Licensee: Prior to the revocation of a license or denial of
an application to renew business license, the licensee or applicant shall be
given a notice which shall state in substance that the city council intends to
revoke the business license or deny the application to renew, together with the
reason or reasons therefor, at a regular or special meeting of the city council
(which shall be at least 10 days and not more than 30 days from the date notice
is sent), and that the licensee or applicant has a right to appear, to be
represented by counsel, to hear the evidence against him, to cross examine
witnesses and to present evidence as to why the license should not be revoked
or the application denied.
   C.   Not Applicable To Businesses Not Previously Licensed: The preceding
subsection shall not apply to applications for licenses for businesses which
have not previously been licensed by the city, and such applicants need only be
informed that their application has been denied. (1982 Code § 9-120)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required; Penalty
3-2-3: Application For License
3-2-4: Qualifications Of Licensee
3-2-5: Fee For License
3-2-6: Bond Required
3-2-7: Classifications And Privileges
3-2-8: Department Of Health Permit
3-2-9: Transfer Of License
3-2-10: Inspection Of Premises
3-2-11: Separate License; Display Required
3-2-12: Alcohol Training And Education
3-2-13: Restrictions
3-2-14: Renewal Of License
3-2-15: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-16: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings specified in
the state alcoholic beverage control act 1 , unless a different meaning is
clearly evident. (1982 Code § 9-412)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 32A-1-105 for definitions.
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of the sale of
beer at retail, in bottles or draft, without first having procured a license
therefor from the city council and paid the license fee required by this
chapter. (1982 Code § 9-411A; amd. 2003 Code)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Verification; Filing: All applications for licenses authorized by this
chapter shall be verified and filed with the city recorder. The application
must state the applicant's name in full and that he understands and has read
and complied with the requirements and possesses the qualifications specified
in the alcoholic beverage control act and this chapter. If the applicant is a
copartnership, the names and addresses of all partners, and if a corporation,
the names and addresses of all officers and directors, must be stated.
   B.   Applicant Subscription: The application must be subscribed by the
applicant, who shall state under oath that the facts therein contained are
true. (1982 Code § 9-417)
   C.   Referral To Sheriff: All applications filed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be referred to the sheriff's office for
inspection and report. The sheriff's office shall, when possible within thirty
(30) days after receiving such application, make report to the city council of
the general reputation and character of the persons who habitually frequent
such place, the nature and kind of business conducted at such place by the
applicant or by any other persons or by the applicant at any other place;
whether the place is or has been conducted in a lawful, quiet and orderly
manner; the nature and kind of entertainment, if any, at such place; whether
gambling is or has been permitted on the premises or by the applicant at any
other place; and the proximity of such premises to any school or church. The
sheriff's office shall also add to such report their recommendation as to
whether or not the application should be granted. (1982 Code § 4-418; amd. 2003
Code)
3-2-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
No license shall be granted to any retailer to sell beer or to any brewer or
wholesaler, unless he shall be of good moral character, over the age of twenty
one (21) years, and a citizen of the United States, or to anyone who has been
convicted of a felony or of any violation of any law of the state or provision
of the ordinances of the city relating to intoxicating liquors, or of keeping a
gambling or disorderly house, or who has pleaded guilty to or has forfeited his
bail on a charge of having committed a felony or of having violated any such
law or ordinance, or to any partnership, any member of which lacks any of the
qualifications set forth in this chapter or to any corporation of which lacks
any of such qualifications. (1982 Code § 9-420; amd. 2003 Code)
3-2-5: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required: Applications provided for in this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fees provided in this section. The fee shall be returned to
the applicant if the application is denied. (1982 Code § 9-415)
   B.   Enumerated: In addition to any other business license fee which any
person or place of business may be required to pay, there is hereby levied upon
the business location of every person engaged in the sale or other dispensing
of beer, an annual license fee in such amount as established by resolution of
the city council. (1982 Code § 4-414; amd. 2003 Code)
3-2-6: BOND REQUIRED:
No license required by this chapter shall be granted by the city council until
the applicant shall have filed with the city recorder a bond in a sum and as
required by Utah Code Annotated section 32A-10-205. The bond shall be made in
favor of the city. (1982 Code § 9-421)
3-2-7: CLASSIFICATIONS AND PRIVILEGES:
Retail licenses issued hereunder shall be of the following three (3) kinds and
shall carry the following privileges and be known as class A, class B, class C
and seasonal licenses:
   A.   Class A: Class A retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
beer on the premises licensed in original containers for consumption off the
premises in accordance with the Utah alcoholic beverage control act and the
ordinances of the city.
   B.   Class B: Class B retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
beer in the original containers on the premises for consumption on or off the
premises in accordance with the Utah alcoholic beverage control act and the
ordinances of the city.
   C.   Class C: Class C licenses for retail shall entitle the licensee to sell
draft beer for consumption on or off the premises and to sell beer in
accordance with the Utah alcoholic beverage control act and the ordinances of
the city.
   D.   Seasonal: Seasonal licenses of any class may be issued for a period of
time not to exceed one year, which period shall be determined by the city
council. (1982 Code § 9-413)
3-2-8: DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH PERMIT:
No license under this chapter shall be issued until the applicant therefor
shall have first procured from the department of health a permit which shall
show that the premises to be licensed are in a sanitary condition and that the
equipment used in the storage, distribution or sale of beer complies with all
the health regulations of the city and of the state. (1982 Code § 9-422; amd.
2003 Code)
3-2-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable, and if
revoked by the city council, the fee paid by the licensee to the city for the
license shall be forfeited to the city. (1982 Code § 9-423)
3-2-10: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
   A.   Authority: All licensed premises shall be subject to inspection by any
officer, agent or peace officer of the city or the alcoholic beverage control
commission, or the state board of health, and every licensee shall, at the
request of the state board of health, furnish to it samples of beer which he
shall have for sale.
   B.   Revocation: Any license granted pursuant to this chapter may be revoked
upon a finding by the city council that the licensee has had ten (10) days' or
more notice from the state board of health that the licensee is violating one
or more health ordinances, rules or regulations of the city or of the Utah
division of health and has failed to comply with such health ordinance, rule or
regulation. (1982 Code § 9-426)
   C.   Close Of Business: The city council may direct the sheriff's office to
close down any business licensed under this chapter where the state board of
health has determined that continued operation of the business presents an
imminent danger to the health of the community or persons who may eat or drink
at the business. (1982 Code § 9-426; amd. 2003 Code)
3-2-11: SEPARATE LICENSE; DISPLAY REQUIRED:
A separate license shall be required for each place of sale and the license
shall at all times be conspicuously displayed in the place to which it shall
refer or for which it shall be issued. All licenses shall comply with the Utah
alcoholic beverage control act and the regulations of the alcoholic beverage
control commission. (1982 Code § 9-411C)
3-2-12: ALCOHOL TRAINING AND EDUCATION:
   A.   Required: Commencing September 1, 1987, no person shall be granted a
license to operate or maintain a trade, profession or calling, the transaction
or carrying on of which requires a license, within the city, if such person
operates an establishment which as part of its business serves "alcoholic
beverages", as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 32A-1-105(2), to the
public for consumption on the premises, unless that person shall show by
certificate(s) granted by the Utah department of alcoholic beverage control, or
by adequate proof of the existence of such certificate(s), that each employee
of the business engaging in the serving, selling or furnishing of such alcohol
on the premises has completed the alcohol training and education seminar, as
required in Utah Code Annotated section 62A-8-403.
   B.   New Employees: Every new employee, hired after the licensee has been
licensed in compliance with subsection A of this section, who is required to
complete this seminar shall complete the seminar within six (6) months of
commencing employment. Violation of this section will result in revocation of
the license granted under this chapter unless compliance with this section is
completed within two (2) months of the time that licensee first became aware
that such violation occurred. (Ord. 87-2, 7-9-1987)
3-2-13: RESTRICTIONS:
Operational restrictions shall be as provided in Utah Code Annotated section
32A-10-206, or successor provisions. (2003 Code)
3-2-14: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
All applications for renewal licenses filed by the holders of existing licenses
shall be filed with the city recorder at least thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration date of the then issued license. Any person who fails to file such
application within the time limit shall close his licensed premises on the
expiration date of the then issued license and shall keep the premises closed
for any and all business for the sale of beer until the date his new license is
issued by the city council. (1982 Code § 9-419)
3-2-15: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority: The city council may, after a hearing, revoke or suspend any
beer license on a finding by it that the licensee or his officers, agents or
employees have violated any provision of this chapter or any ordinance of the
city, whether now or hereafter enacted, which in any way relates to the
operation of the business or the safety of the public.
   B.   Hearing: A hearing may be required by any person:
      1.   That is denied or refused a beer license by any officer, agent or
employee of the city.
      2.   Whose beer license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited from
that for which it was first issued.
   C.   Request For Hearing: The request for hearing must be made in writing to
the mayor or city recorder and made within thirty (30) days following the date
notice denying, refusing, removing, qualifying, restricting or revoking the
beer license is mailed by the city to the applicant or license holder at his
address as it appears on the application or license.
   D.   Time And Place; Witnesses; Decision: Following receipt of a request for
hearing, the city council shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the
time and place the hearing is to be held. At the hearing, the aggrieved party
shall have the right to hear and examine any witnesses the city may produce to
support its decision and to present his own evidence in support of its
contention. The city council shall, within ten (10) days following the
conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who requested the
hearing of the decision of the city council.
   E.   Limitations Of Hearing: This section shall not be construed so as to
afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the city council, nor
shall the hearing provided in this section apply to any criminal complaint or
proceeding. (1982 Code § 9-427)
3-2-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Title
3-3A-2: Purpose
3-3A-3: Effective Date
3-3A-4: Tax Imposed
3-3A-5: Penalty
3-3A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as THE SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF PLAIN CITY.
(Ord. 90-2, 1-25-1990)
3-3A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Authorization Of Tax: The forty eighth session of the Utah legislature
authorized municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances
imposing a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   Tax Established: It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales
and use tax of the city to conform to the requirements of the sales and use tax
act, Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (Ord. 90-
2, 1-25-1990)
3-3A-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective as of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M., January 1, 1990. (Ord. 90-2, 1-25-1990)
3-3A-4: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the city at the rate of one percent
(1%).
      2.   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the city of tangible personal property from any retailer on or
after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property.
      3.   For the purpose of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out of state designation. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by the
state tax commission. "Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any
county or municipality where public utilities are rendered, but the place of
sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to the city
shall be as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an appropriate
formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   B.   Adoption Of State Codes; Provisions:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, and in
force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales
taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, are hereby adopted
and made a part of this article as though fully set forth herein.
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this city shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in subsection B of
this section shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city
for the word "state" when the word is used as part of the title of the state
tax commission, or of the constitution of the state, nor shall the name of the
city be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of
that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the state tax
commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article.
      3.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
      4.   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by
which the tax is measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
         b.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sales transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord.
90-2, 1-25-1990)
3-3A-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 90-2, 1-25-1990; amd. 2003 Code)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Purpose
3-3B-2: Definitions
3-3B-3: Tax Imposed
3-3B-4: Exemptions To Tax
3-3B-5: Existing Franchise Agreements
3-3B-6: Contract With State Tax Commission
3-3B-7: State Statutes Incorporated
3-3B-8: Additional License Or Reporting Not Required
3-3B-9: Effective Date Of Levy
3-3B-1: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of the city to repeal its franchise tax levied on gas and
electricity and adopt the municipal energy sales and use tax, pursuant to and
in conformance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-301 et seq., the municipal
energy sales and use tax act. (Ord. 97-03, 6-5-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
3-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the municipal energy sales and use tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   A fee:
      1. Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
      2. That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   B.   1. A fee similar to subsection A of this definition; or
      2. Any combination of subsections A or B of this definition.
DELIVERED VALUE:
   A.   The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for sale or use
in the city and includes:
      1. The value of the energy itself; and
      2. Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service charges
or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable form to
each class of customer in the city.
   B.   Delivered value does not include the amount of a tax paid under Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1 or part 2.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimis amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded
by rule promulgated by the state tax commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX:
   A.   A franchise tax.
   B.   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   C.   Any combinations of subsection A or B of this definition.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, this state,
any county, city, municipality, district, or other local governmental entity of
the state, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
   A.   Installment and credit sales;
   B.   Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C.   Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in this city for any
purpose, except sale in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
USE:
   A.   The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
   B.   Use does not include the sale, display, demonstration or trial of the
taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (Ord. 97-
03, 6-5-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
3-3B-3: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this article, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made within the city equaling six percent
(6%) of the delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax
shall be known as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   A.   Calculation: The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the
taxable energy to the consumer.
   B.   Additional Tax: The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on
taxable energy imposed by the city as authorized by Utah Code Annotated title
59, chapter 12, part 2, the local sales and use tax act. (Ord. 97-03, 6-5-1997)
3-3B-4: EXEMPTIONS TO TAX:
   A.   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
except as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b);
notwithstanding an exemption granted under Utah Code Annotated section 59-1-
104.
   B.   The following are exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b):
      1.   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel and special fuels subject
to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      2.   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
federal law, the United States constitution or the Utah constitution;
      3.   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
      4.   Sales or use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a
fuel subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      5.   Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident living or
working in the state at the time of purchase;
      6.   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      7.   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the
city.
   C.   The sale, storage, use or other consumption of taxable energy is exempt
from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this article, provided:
      1.   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
state authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 3; and
      2.   The city is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this article, if the
tax due under this article exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.
(Ord. 97-03, 6-5-1997)
3-3B-5: EXISTING FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS:
   A.   No Alteration: This article shall not alter any existing franchise
agreements between the city and energy suppliers.
   B.   Credit Against Tax Due: There is a credit against the tax due from any
consumer in the amount of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the city
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 1997;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (Ord. 97-03, 6-5-
1997)
3-3B-6: CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
   A.   Required; Authority Of Mayor: On or before the effective date hereof,
the city shall contract with the state tax commission to perform all functions
incident to the administration and collection of the municipal energy sales and
use tax, in accordance with this article. This contract may be a supplement to
any existing contract with the commission to administer and collect the local
sales and use tax, as provided in this code. The mayor, with the approval of
the city council and city attorney, is hereby authorized to enter into
agreements with the state tax commission that may be necessary to the continued
administration and operation of the municipal energy sales and use tax
ordinance enacted by this article.
   B.   Monthly Payments By Supplier; Conditions: An energy supplier shall pay
the municipal energy sales and use tax revenues collected from consumers
directly to the city monthly if:
      1.   The city is the energy supplier; or
      2.   a. The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales and
use tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more; and
         b.   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   C.   Deduction Of Franchise Fees: An energy supplier paying the municipal
energy sales and use tax directly to the city may deduct any contractual
franchise fees collected by the energy supplier qualifying as a credit and
remit the net tax less any amount the energy supplier retains as authorized by
Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-307(4). (Ord. 97-03, 6-5-1997)
3-3B-7: STATE STATUTES INCORPORATED:
   A.   Specified; Exemptions: Except as herein provided, and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 10,
chapter 1, part 3, municipal energy sales and use tax act, as well as this
article, all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
part 1, as amended, and in force and effect on the effective date hereof,
insofar as they relate to sales and use taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and
59-12-119 thereof, and excepting for the amount of the sales and use taxes
levied therein, are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as if fully
set forth herein.
   B.   Substitution Of Terms: Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, the state is named or
referred to as the "taxing agency", the name of the city shall be substituted,
insofar as is necessary for the purposes of that part, as well as Utah Code
Annotated title 10, chapter 1, part 3, as amended. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city for the word
"state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax
commission, or of the constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of the city be
substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of such a
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city or any
agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article.
   C.   Amendments: Any amendments made to Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, as amended, which would be applicable to the city for the
purposes of carrying out this article are hereby incorporated herein by
reference and shall be effective upon the date that they are effective as a
Utah statute. (Ord. 97-03, 6-5-1997)
3-3B-8: ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING NOT REQUIRED:
No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and use
tax levied by this article is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106. (Ord.
97-03, 6-5-1997)
3-3B-9: EFFECTIVE DATE OF LEVY:
This article is effective June 30, 1997. The municipal energy sales and use tax
shall be levied beginning one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M., July 1,
1997. (Ord. 97-03, 6-5-1997)
ARTICLE C. TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Levy Of Tax
3-3C-3: Rate
3-3C-4: Rate Limitation And Exemption
3-3C-5: Effective Date Of Tax Levy
3-3C-6: Changes In Rate Or Repeal Of Tax
3-3C-7: Interlocal Agreement
3-3C-8: Repeal Of Inconsistent Taxes And Fees
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
COMMISSION: The state tax commission.
CUSTOMER:
   A.   Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, "customer" means the
person who is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications provider to
pay for telecommunications service received under the contract.
   B.   For purposes of this article, "customer" means:
      1. The person who is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications
provider to pay for telecommunications service received under the contract; or
      2. If the end user is not the person described in subsection B1 of this
definition, the end user of telecommunications service.
   C.   "Customer" does not include a reseller:
      1. Of telecommunications service; or
      2. For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's
licensed service area.
END USER:
   A.   The person who uses a telecommunications service.
   B.   For purposes of telecommunications service provided to a person who is
not an individual, "end user" means the individual who uses the
telecommunications service on behalf of the person who is provided the
telecommunications service.
GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE MUNICIPALITY: Those gross receipts from a
transaction for telecommunications services that is located within the
municipality for the purposes of sales and use taxes under Utah code title 59,
chapter 12, sales and use tax act and determined in accordance with Utah code
section 59-12-207.
GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered
except for amounts collected or paid as:
   A.   A tax, fee, or charge:
      1. Imposed by a governmental entity;
      2. Separately identified as a tax, fee, or charge in the transaction with
the customer for the telecommunications service; and
      3. Imposed only on a telecommunications provider;
   B.   Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a
customer under title 59, chapter 12, sales and use tax act; or
   C.   Interest, a fee, or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications
provider on a customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when
payment is due.
MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
MUNICIPALITY: Plain City.
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE:
   A.   For telecommunications service other than mobile telecommunications
service, means the street address representative of where the customer's use of
the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which shall be:
      1. The residential street address of the customer; or
      2. The primary business street address of the customer; or
   B.   For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
SERVICE ADDRESS: Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid, "service
address" means:
   A.   If the location described in this subsection is known, the location of
the telecommunications equipment:
      1. To which a call is charged; and
      2. From which the call originates or terminates;
   B.   If the location described in subsection A of this definition is not
known but the location described in this subsection is known, the location of
the origination point of the signal of the telecommunications service first
identified by:
      1. The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
      2. If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the
telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider; or
   C.   If the locations described in subsection A or B of this definition are
not known, the location of a customer's place of primary use.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER:
   A.   Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, "telecommunications
provider" means a person that:
      1. Owns, controls, operates, or manages a telecommunications service; or
      2. Engages in an activity described in subsection A1 of this definition
for the shared use with or resale to any person of the telecommunications
service.
   B.   A person described in subsection A of this definition is a
telecommunications provider whether or not the public service commission of
Utah regulates:
      1. That person; or
      2. The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls,
operates, or manages.
   C.   "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator as defined
in Utah code section 54-8b-2.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE:
   A.   Telephone service, as defined in Utah code section 59-12-102, other
than mobile telecommunications service, that originates and terminates within
the boundaries of this state; and
   B.   Mobile telecommunications service, as defined in Utah code section 59-
12-102:
      1. That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state; and
      2. Only to the extent permitted by the mobile telecommunications sourcing
act, 4 USC section 116 et seq. (Ord. 2004-06, 6-3-2004)
3-3C-2: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to this municipality. (Ord.
2004-06, 6-3-2004)
3-3C-3: RATE:
The rate of the tax levy shall be four percent (4%) of the telecommunication
provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed
to the municipality subject to the following:
If the location of a transaction is determined to be other than this
municipality then the rate imposed on the gross receipts for telecommunications
services shall be the lower of: a) the rate imposed by the taxing jurisdiction
in which the transaction is located or b) the rate for nonmobile
telecommunication services shall be the rate imposed by the municipality in
which the customer's service address is located; or for mobile
telecommunications service, the rate imposed by the municipality of the
customer's primary place of use. (Ord. 2004-06, 6-3-2004)
3-3C-4: RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION:
This rate of this levy shall not exceed four percent (4%) of the
telecommunication provider's gross receipts from telecommunication service
attributed to the municipality unless a higher rate is approved by a majority
vote of the voters in this municipality that vote in:
   A.   A municipal general election;
   B.   A regular general election; or
   C.   A local special election. (Ord. 2004-06, 6-3-2004)
3-3C-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX LEVY:
This tax shall be levied beginning the earlier of July 1, 2004, or the first
day of any calendar quarter after a seventy five (75) day period beginning on
the date the commission received notice pursuant to Utah code section 10-1-403
that this municipality has enacted this article. (Ord. 2004-06, 6-3-2004)
3-3C-6: CHANGES IN RATE OR REPEAL OF TAX:
This article is subject to the requirements of Utah code section 10-1-403. If
the tax rate is changed or the tax is repealed, then the appropriate notice
shall be given as provided in Utah code section 10-1-403. (Ord. 2004-06, 6-3-
2004)
3-3C-7: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT:
On or before the effective date hereof, the municipality shall enter into the
uniform interlocal agreement with the commission as described in Utah code
section 10-1-405 for the collection, enforcement, and administration of this
municipal telecommunications license tax. (Ord. 2004-06, 6-3-2004)
3-3C-8: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT TAXES AND FEES:
Any tax or fee previously enacted by this municipality under authority of Utah
code section 10-1-203 or Utah code title 11, chapter 26, local taxation of
utilities limitation is hereby repealed.
Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to repeal any municipal ordinance
or fee which provides that the municipality may recover from a
telecommunications provider the management costs of the municipality caused by
the activities of the telecommunications provider in the rights of way of the
municipality, if the fee is imposed in accordance with Utah code section 72-7-
102 and is not related to the municipality's loss of use of a highway as a
result of the activities of the telecommunications provider in a right of way,
or increased deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the
telecommunications provider in a right of way nor does this article limit the
municipality's right to charge fees or taxes on persons that are not subject to
the municipal telecommunications license tax under this article and locate
telecommunications facilities, as defined in Utah code section 72-7-108, in
this municipality. (Ord. 2004-06, 6-3-2004)
CHAPTER 4
SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS AND
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: No Other City License Or Approval Required
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: Exemptions
3-4-5: Solicitation Prohibited
3-4-6: Registration Of Solicitors
3-4-7: Application Form
3-4-8: Written Disclosures
3-4-9: When Registration Begins
3-4-10: Issuance Of Certificates
3-4-11: Form Of Certificate And Identification Badge
3-4-12: Maintenance Of Registry
3-4-13: Nontransferability Of Certificates
3-4-14: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of A Certificate Of Registration
3-4-15: Appeal
3-4-16: Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited
3-4-17: "No Solicitation" Notice
3-4-18: Duties Of Solicitors
3-4-19: Time Of Day Restrictions
3-4-20: Buyer's Right To Cancel
3-4-21: Penalties
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
Residents of the city have an inalienable interest in their personal safety,
well being, and privacy in their residences, as well as their ability to
provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief, political
or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in commerce. The city
has a substantial interest in protecting the well being, tranquility, personal
safety, and privacy of its citizens, which includes the ability to protect
citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property. The city also has
a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or otherwise unfair
consumer sales practices as well as criminal activity.
There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the city and its
citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the rights of
those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of city officials
derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and property from
criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens regarding door to
door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement officers and those
affected by door to door canvassing and solicitation, as well as judicial
decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional protections afforded and
denied persons seeking to engage in door to door solicitation, the city adopts
this chapter to promote the city's substantial interests in:
   A.   Respecting citizens' decisions regarding privacy in their residences;
   B.   Protecting persons from criminal conduct;
   C.   Providing equal opportunity to advocate for and against religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities; and
   D.   Permitting truthful and nonmisleading door to door solicitation
regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
The city finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in this
chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the city interests
referred to herein while at the same time balancing the rights of those
regulated. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-2: NO OTHER CITY LICENSE OR APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not
apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or registration from the city
to engage in door to door solicitation.
   B.   Any business licensed by the city under another city ordinance that
uses employees, independent contractors, or agents for door to door
solicitation in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to the
business, shall be required to have such solicitors obtain a certificate,
unless otherwise exempt from registration.
   C.   Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered
solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or
registration from the city, provided they do not establish a temporary or fixed
place of business in the city.
   D.   Nothing herein is intended to interfere with or supplant any other
requirement of federal, state, or other local government law regarding any
license, permit, or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise
required to have or maintain. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ADVOCATING: Speech or conduct intended to inform, promote, or support religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities.
APPEALS OFFICER: The city council or designee of the city responsible for
receiving the information from the city and appellant regarding the denial or
suspension of a certificate and issuing a decision as required by this chapter.
APPELLANT: The person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of a
certificate, either personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on
behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor.
APPLICANT: An individual who is at least sixteen (16) years of age and not a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity who
applies for a certificate permitting door to door solicitation.
APPLICATION FORM: A standardized form provided by the city to an applicant to
be completed and submitted as part of registration.
BCI: An original or copy, dated no older than one hundred eighty (180) days
prior to the date of the application, of either: a) a Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification verified criminal history report
personal to the applicant; or b) verification by the Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification that no criminal history rising to the
level of a disqualifying status exists for the applicant.
BUSINESS: A commercial enterprise licensed by the city as a person or entity
under this title, having a fixed or temporary physical location within the
city.
CERTIFICATE: A temporary, annual, or renewal certificate permitting door to
door solicitation in the city applied for or issued pursuant to the terms of
this chapter.
CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES: Advocating by persons or entities that either are, or
support, a charitable organization.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Includes any person, joint venture, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation, association, group, or other entity that is:
      1. A benevolent, educational, voluntary health, philanthropic, humane,
patriotic, religious or eleemosynary, social welfare or advocacy, public
health, environmental or conservation, or civic organization;
      2. For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement, or firefighter
fraternal association; or
      3. Established for any charitable purpose; and
      4. Tax exempt under applicable provisions of the internal revenue code of
1986, as amended, and qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible
contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
   B.   Charitable organization includes a chapter, branch, area, or office, or
similar affiliate or any person soliciting contributions within the state for a
charitable organization that has its principal place of business outside the
city or state of Utah 1 .
COMPETENT INDIVIDUAL: A person claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage
in rational thought, conversation, and conduct.
COMPLETED APPLICATION: A fully completed application form, a BCI, two (2)
copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant to establish
proof of identity, and the tendering of fees.
CRIMINALLY CONVICTED: The final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of no
contest, guilty, entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not
been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal
conviction is that offense of which the applicant or registered solicitor was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
DISQUALIFYING STATUS: Anything specifically defined in this chapter as
requiring the denial or suspension of a certificate, and any of the following:
   A.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of:
      1. Felony homicide,
      2. Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor,
      3. The sale or distribution of controlled substances, or
      4. Sexual assault of any kind;
   B.   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or registered
solicitor for:
      1. Felony homicide,
      2. Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor,
      3. The sale or distribution of controlled substances, or
      4. Sexual assault of any kind;
   C.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a felony within the last ten (10) years;
   D.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
federal or state prison within the past five (5) years;
   E.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a misdemeanor within the past five (5) years involving a crime of:
      1. Moral turpitude, or
      2. Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
   F.   A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant or
registered solicitor within the last five (5) years indicating that: 1) the
applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in fraud, or intentional
misrepresentation, or 2) a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor was
nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)(2), (a)(4),
(a)(6), or (a)(19);
   G.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including
being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device;
   H.   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest warrant
from any jurisdiction; or
   I.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION: The practice of engaging in or attempting to engage
in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that person is a
competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate a home
solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or services.
ENTITY: Includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
other lawful entity, organization, society or association.
FEES: The cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the
issuance of a certificate and/or identification badge, which shall not exceed
the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the certificate
and/or identification badge.
FINAL CIVIL JUDGMENT: A civil judgment that would be recognized under state law
as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply.
GOODS: One or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise, perishables
of any kind, subscriptions, or manufactured products offered, provided, or
sold.
HOME SOLICITATION SALE: To make or attempt to make a sale of goods or services
by a solicitor at a residence by means of door to door solicitation, regardless
of:
   A.   The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
   B.   The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
   C.   The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a solicitor,
peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or similar designation.
LICENSING OFFICER: The city employee(s) or agent(s) responsible for receiving
from an applicant or registered solicitor the completed application and either
granting, suspending, or denying the applicant's certificate.
NO SOLICITATION SIGN: A reasonably visible and legible sign that states "No
Soliciting", "No Solicitors", "No Salespersons", "No Trespassing", or words of
similar import.
POLITICAL POSITION: Any actually held belief, or information for, against, or
in conjunction with any political, social, environmental, or humanitarian
belief or practice.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has been issued a current certificate by
the city.
REGISTRATION: The process used by the city licensing officer to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a certificate will be
denied, granted, or suspended.
RELIGIOUS BELIEF: Any sincerely held belief, or information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any theistic, agnostic, or atheistic assumption, presumption
or position, or religious doctrine, dogma, or practice regardless of whether or
not the belief or information is endorsed by any other person or public or
private entity.
RESIDENCE: Any living unit contained within any building or structure that is
occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the
city, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street or public rights of
way.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON OR ENTITY: That person or entity responsible to provide the
following to an applicant, registered solicitor, and the competent individual
in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or attempted to be
made by means of a home solicitation sale:
   A.   Maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax
number, computing the sales taxes owing from any sale of goods or services,
paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
   B.   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to
cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
   C.   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
SALE OF GOODS OR SERVICES: The conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the
competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good(s) or service
(s) that entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three (3) days under
any applicable federal, state, or local law.
SERVICES: Those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided, or
sold to a competent individual of a residence.
SOLICITING, SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Any of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
insurance, subscriptions to publications, or publications;
   C.   Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value
for the benefit of any person or entity;
   D.   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services;
   E.   Seeking to engage an individual in conversation at a residence for the
purpose of promoting or facilitating the receipt of information regarding
religious belief, political position, charitable conduct, or a home
solicitation sale;
   F.   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
soliciting, such as hawking or peddling.
SOLICITOR OR SOLICITORS: A person(s) engaged in door to door solicitation.
SUBMITTED IN WRITING: The information for an appeal of a denial or suspension
of a certificate, submitted in any type of written statement to the city
offices by certified, registered, priority, overnight or delivery confirmation
mail, facsimile, or hand delivery.
SUBSTANTIATED REPORT: An oral, written, or electronic report:
   A.   That is submitted to and documented by the city by any of the
following:
      1. A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or
other city employees with publicly available identification of their name,
address, and any other reliable means of contact;
      2. City law enforcement or licensing officer; or
      3. Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level of
government;
   B.   That provides any of the following information regarding a registered
solicitor:
      1. Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying
status of a registered solicitor;
      2. Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a
disqualifying status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying
status;
      3. Documented, eyewitness accounts that the registered solicitor has
engaged in repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the
registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
      4. Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor
creates exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety, or welfare of
any individuals or entities within the city.
WAIVER: The written form provided to applicant by the city wherein applicant
agrees that the city may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on
the applicant for licensing purposes under this chapter, and which contains
applicant's notarized signature. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. Charitable solicitation act UCA § 13-22-2(1)(a), (b).
3-4-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following are exempt from registration under this chapter:
   A.   Persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent individual
prior to the time of the person's arrival at the residence;
   B.   Persons whose license, permit, certificate or registration with the
state of Utah permits them to engage in door to door solicitation to offer
goods or services to an occupant of the residence;
   C.   Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously made
order, or persons providing services at a residence pursuant to a previously
made request by a competent individual;
   D.   Persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any religious belief, or political position regardless of
whether goods, services, or any other consideration is offered or given, with
or without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge, or purchase;
and
   E.   Persons representing a charitable organization. The charitable
exemption shall apply to students soliciting contributions to finance
extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs,
provided that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school
administration, and that such student solicitors carry current picture student
identification from the educational institution for which they are soliciting.
Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties and
prohibitions outlined in sections
3-4-17,
3-4-18 and
3-4-19 of this chapter while advocating or soliciting. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-
2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-5: SOLICITATION PROHIBITED:
Unless otherwise authorized, permitted, or exempted pursuant to the terms and
provisions of this chapter, the practice of being in and upon a private
residence within the city by solicitors, for the purpose of home solicitation
sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is punishable as set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-6: REGISTRATION OF SOLICITORS:
Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, all persons desiring to engage in
door to door solicitation within the city, prior to doing so, shall submit a
completed application to the licensing officer and obtain a certificate. (Ord.
2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-7: APPLICATION FORM:
The licensing officer shall provide a standard application form for use for the
registration of solicitors. Upon request to the licensing officer, or as
otherwise provided, any person or entity may obtain in person, by mail, or
facsimile, a copy of this application form. Each application form shall require
disclosure and reporting by the applicant of the following information,
documentation, and fee:
   A.   Review Of Written Disclosures: An affirmation that the applicant has
received and reviewed the disclosure information required by this chapter.
   B.   Contact Information:
      1.   Applicant's true, correct and legal name, including any former names
or aliases used during the last ten (10) years;
      2.   Applicant's telephone number, home address and mailing address, if
different;
      3.   If different from the applicant, the name, address, and telephone
number of the responsible person or entity; and
      4.   The address by which all notices to the applicant required under
this chapter are to be sent.
   C.   Proof Of Identity: An in person verification by the licensing officer
of the applicant's true identity by use of any of the following which bear a
photograph of said applicant:
      1.   A valid driver's license issued by any state;
      2.   A valid passport issued by the United States;
      3.   A valid identification card issued by any state;
      4.   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
Upon verification of identity, the original identification submitted to
establish proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant.
   D.   Proof Of Registration With Department Of Commerce: The applicant shall
provide proof that either the applicant, or the responsible person or entity,
has registered with the Utah state department of commerce.
   E.   Special Events Sales Tax Number: The applicant shall provide a special
events sales tax number for either the applicant, or for the responsible person
or entity for which the applicant will be soliciting.
   F.   Marketing Information:
      1.   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered or trademarked names;
      2.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations, or other qualifications required by federal or state law to
promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
   G.   BCI Background Check: The applicant shall provide:
      1.   An original or a copy of a BCI background check as defined in
section
3-4-3 of this chapter; and
      2.   A signed copy of a waiver whereby applicant agrees to allow the city
to obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on applicant for purposes
of enforcement of this chapter 1 .
   H.   Responses To Questions Regarding "Disqualifying Status": The applicant
shall be required to affirm or deny each of the following statements on the
application form:
      1.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of: a) felony homicide,
b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor, c) the sale or
distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual assault of any kind;
      2.   Are any criminal charges currently pending against the applicant
for: a) felony homicide, b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting
a minor, c) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual
assault of any kind;
      3.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a felony within the
last ten (10) years;
      4.   Has the applicant been incarcerated in a federal or state prison
within the past five (5) years;
      5.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor within
the past five (5) years involving a crime of: a) moral turpitude, or b) violent
or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
      6.   Has a final civil judgment been entered against the applicant within
the last five (5) years indicating that: a) the applicant had either engaged in
fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or b) a debt of the applicant was
nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)(2), (a)(4),
(a)(6), or (a)(19);
      7.   Is the applicant currently on parole or probation to any court,
penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest
or subject to a tracking device;
      8.   Does the applicant have an outstanding arrest warrant from any
jurisdiction; or
      9.   Is the applicant currently subject to a protective order based on
physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   I.   Fee: The applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the
city, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the application
and issuing the certificate and/or identification badge.
   J.   Execution Of Application: The applicant shall execute the application
form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on
the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the information provided is
complete, truthful and accurate. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 53-10-108(1)(b).
3-4-8: WRITTEN DISCLOSURES:
The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying the
applicant of the following:
   A.   The applicant's submission of the application authorizes the city to
verify information submitted with the completed application including:
      1.   The applicant's address;
      2.   The applicant's and/or responsible person's or entity's state tax
identification and special use tax numbers, if any;
      3.   The validity of the applicant's proof of identity;
   B.   The city may consult any publicly available sources for information on
the applicant, including, but not limited to, databases for any outstanding
warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments;
   C.   Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is
allowed;
   D.   Identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by applicant
with a completed application;
   E.   The applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed
application;
   F.   To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant's
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection;
   G.   The city will maintain copies of the applicant's application form,
proof of identity, and identification badge. These copies will become public
records available for inspection on demand at the city offices whether or not a
certificate is denied, granted, or renewed;
   H.   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial, or suspension of a
certificate under the provisions of this chapter;
   I.   That a request for a temporary certificate will be granted or denied
the same business day that a completed application is submitted. (Ord. 2006-18,
9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-9: WHEN REGISTRATION BEGINS:
The licensing officer shall not begin the registration process unless the
applicant has submitted a completed application. The original identification
submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned after the licensing
officer verifies the applicant's identity. A copy of the identification may be
retained by the licensing officer. If an original BCI background check is
submitted by the applicant, the licensing officer shall make a copy of the BCI
and return the original to the applicant. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-
2006)
3-4-10: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES:
The licensing officer shall review the completed application submitted by the
applicant and issue a certificate in accordance with the following:
   A.   Temporary Certificate:
      1.   A temporary certificate shall issue allowing the applicant to
immediately begin door to door solicitation upon the following conditions:
         a.   Applicant's submission of a completed application;
         b.   Applicant's submission of the required fee;
         c.   Applicant establishes proof of identity;
         d.   The applicant's representations on the application form do not
affirmatively show a disqualifying status;
         e.   The BCI does not affirmatively show a disqualifying status; and
         f.   The applicant has not previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   A temporary certificate will automatically expire after twenty five
(25) calendar days from issuance, or upon grant or denial of an annual
certificate, whichever period is shorter.
   B.   Annual Certificate: Within twenty five (25) calendar days of the
issuance of a temporary certificate the city shall:
      1.   Take any and all actions it deems appropriate to verify the
truthfulness and completeness of the information submitted by the applicant,
including, but not limited to, those disclosed with the application form.
      2.   Issue written notice to the applicant and the responsible person or
entity, if any, that the applicant either:
         a.   Will be issued an annual certificate, eligible for renewal one
year from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate; or
         b.   Will not be issued an annual certificate for reasons cited in
section
3-4-14 of this chapter.
   C.   Renewal Certificate: An annual certificate shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate and shall expire at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the anniversary date of issuance. Any annual
certificate that is not suspended, revoked, or expired may be renewed upon the
request of the registered solicitor and the submission of a new completed
application and payment of the fee, unless any of the conditions for the
denial, suspension or revocation of a certificate are present as set forth in
section
3-4-14 of this chapter, or a disqualifying status is present. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-
21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-11: FORM OF CERTIFICATE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE:
   A.   Certificate Form: Should the licensing officer determine that the
applicant is entitled to a certificate, the licensing officer shall issue a
certificate to the applicant. The certificate shall list the name of the
registered solicitor and the responsible person or entity, if any, and the date
on which the certificate expires. The certificate shall be dated and signed by
the license officer. The certificate shall be carried by the registered
solicitor at all times while soliciting in the city.
   B.   Identification Badge: With both the temporary and annual certificates,
the city shall issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that
shall be worn prominently on his or her person while soliciting in the city.
The identification badge shall bear the name of the city and shall contain:
      1.   The name of the registered solicitor;
      2.   Address and phone number of the registered solicitor, or the name,
address, and phone number of the responsible person or entity is provided;
      3.   A recent photograph of the registered solicitor; and
      4.   The date on which the certificate expires. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006,
eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-12: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The licensing officer shall maintain and make available for public inspection a
copy or record of every completed application received and the certificate or
written denial issued by the city. The applicant's BCI background check shall
remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public
inspection. The licensing officer may furnish to the head of the city's law
enforcement agency a listing of all applicants, those denied, and those issued
a certificate. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-13: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF CERTIFICATES:
Certificates shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and shall list
the responsible party or entity, if any. The certificate shall be
nontransferable. A registered solicitor desiring to facilitate or attempt to
facilitate home solicitation sales with different: a) goods or services; or b)
responsible person or entity, from those designated in the originally submitted
completed application, shall submit a written change request to the licensing
officer. A new certificate based on the amended information shall issue for the
balance of time remaining on the solicitor's previous certificate before the
amendment was filed. Before the new certificate is given to the registered
solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a revised identification badge
from the city, after payment of the fee for the identification badge. (Ord.
2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-14: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Denial: Upon review, the licensing officer shall refuse to issue a
certificate to an applicant for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Denial Of Temporary Certificate:
         a.   The application form is not complete;
         b.   The applicant fails to: 1) establish proof of identity, 2)
provide a BCI, or 3) pay the fees;
         c.   The completed application or BCI indicates that the applicant has
a disqualifying status; or
         d.   The applicant has previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or has had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   Denial Of Annual Certificate:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant at the time of the
granting of the temporary certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the completed application, the applicant
is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application, the city has received a
substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the applicant;
         e.   Since the submission of the application, the city or other
governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil
injunction against the applicant for violating this chapter or similar federal,
state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying
status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or 2) a debt of the
applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)
(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
      3.   Denial Of Annual Certificate Renewal:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant when seeking renewal
of a certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the renewal application, the applicant is
subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application or granting of a
certificate, the city has received a substantiated report regarding the past or
present conduct of the solicitor;
         e.   The city or other governmental entity has either criminally
convicted or obtained a civil injunction against the applicant for violating
this chapter or similar federal, state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to
the level of a disqualifying status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or 2) a debt of the
applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)
(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation: The city shall either suspend or revoke a
certificate when any of the reasons warranting the denial of a certificate
occurs.
   C.   Notice Of Denial Or Suspension: Upon determination of the licensing
officer to deny an applicant's completed application or to suspend a registered
solicitor's certificate, the city shall cause written notice to be sent to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the method indicated in the completed
application. The notice shall specify the grounds for the denial or suspension,
the documentation or information the city relied on to make the decision, the
availability of the documentation for review by applicant upon one business
day's notice to the city, and the date upon which the denial or suspension of
the certificate shall take effect. It shall further state that the applicant or
registered solicitor shall have ten (10) business days from the receipt of the
notice of denial or suspension to appeal the same. The denial or suspension of
the certificate shall be effective no sooner than two (2) calendar days from
the date the notice is sent, unless that suspension is because of exigent
circumstances outlined in section
3-4-3 of this chapter, in which case, the suspension is effective immediately.
The denial or suspension shall remain effective unless and until the order is
rescinded, overturned on appeal, or determined by a court to be contrary to
equity or law. Failure to appeal the suspension of a certificate automatically
results in its revocation. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-15: APPEAL:
An applicant or registered solicitor whose certificate has been denied or
suspended shall have the right to appeal to the city council or its designee.
Any appeal must be submitted by either the applicant, the responsible person or
entity, or legal counsel for either, who: a) documents the relationship with
the applicant or responsible person or entity; or b) is licensed or authorized
by the state of Utah to do so, and makes the assertion of an agency
relationship. The following procedures and requirements shall apply:
   A.   Any appeal must be submitted in writing to the city recorder with a
copy to the license officer within ten (10) business days of the decision from
which the appeal is taken. Such appeal shall describe in detail the nature of
the appeal, the action complained of and the grounds for appeal.
   B.   Upon request of the applicant or registered solicitor, within one
business day, the city will make available any information upon which it relied
in making the determination to either deny or suspend the certificate.
   C.   The appeals officer shall review, de novo, all written information
submitted by the applicant or registered solicitor to the licensing officer,
any additional information relied upon by the licensing officer as the basis
for denial, suspension or revocation, and any additional information supplied
by the city, applicant or registered solicitor. Any additional information
submitted by any party to the appeal to the appeals officer shall be
simultaneously submitted to the opposing party. If desired, any party shall
have three (3) business days to submit rebuttal documentation to the appeals
officer regarding the additional information submitted by the opposing party.
   D.   The appeals officer will render a decision no later than fifteen (15)
calendar days from the date the appeal was taken, unless an extension of time
is agreed upon by the parties. In the event that any party to the appeal
submits rebuttal information as allowed in subsection C of this section, the
fifteen (15) calendar days shall be extended to include the additional three
(3) days for rebuttal.
      1.   The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be reversed by the
appeals officer if upon review of the written appeal and information submitted,
the appeals officer finds that the licensing officer made a material mistake of
law or fact in denying or suspending the applicant's or registered solicitor's
certificate.
      2.   If the written appeal and information submitted indicates that the
licensing officer properly denied or suspended the certificate of the applicant
or registered solicitor, the denial or suspension of the certificate shall be
affirmed and constitute a determination that the suspended certificate is
revoked.
      3.   The decision of the appeals officer shall be delivered to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the means designated in the completed
application, or as otherwise agreed upon when the appeal was filed.
   E.   After the ruling of the appeals officer, the applicant or solicitor is
deemed to have exhausted all administrative remedies with the city.
   F.   Nothing herein shall impede or interfere with the applicant's,
solicitor's, or city's right to seek relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-16: DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or
fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   B.   A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the consumer during face to
face solicitation: 1) the name of the solicitor; 2) the name and address of the
entity with whom the solicitor is associated; and 3) the purpose of the
solicitor's contact with the person and/or competent individual. This
requirement may be satisfied through the use of the badge and an informational
flyer.
   C.   No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or any name other
than his or her true and correct name.
   D.   No solicitor shall represent directly or by implication that the
granting of a certificate of registration implies any endorsement by the city
of the solicitor's goods or services or of the individual solicitor. (Ord.
2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-17: "NO SOLICITATION" NOTICE:
   A.   Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse
solicitors by displaying a "No Solicitation" sign which shall be posted on or
near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the
sidewalk leading to the residence.
   B.   The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute
notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to
receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each residence
for the presence of any such notice.
D. The provisions of this section shall apply also to solicitors who are exempt
from registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-
21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-18: DUTIES OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   Every person soliciting or advocating shall check each residence for
any "No Soliciting" sign or placard or any other notice or sign notifying a
solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as, but not limited to, "No
Solicitation" signs. If such sign or placard is posted such solicitor shall
desist from any efforts to solicit at the residence or dwelling and shall
immediately depart from such property. Possession of a certificate of
registration does not in any way relieve any solicitor of this duty.
   B.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person soliciting or
advocating to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any other manner
attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears a "No
Solicitation" sign or similar sign or placard for the purpose of engaging in or
attempting to engage in advocating, a home solicitation sale, door to door
soliciting, or soliciting.
   C.   It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor through ruse,
deception, or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to solicit, to take action
calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.
   D.   Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an occupant of a residence or
dwelling to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart.
   E.   The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly make any physical
contact with, or touch another person without the person's consent.
   F.   The solicitor shall not follow a person into a residence without their
explicit consent.
   G.   The solicitor shall not continue repeated soliciting after a person
and/or competent individual has communicated clearly and unequivocally their
lack of interest in the subject, goods or services of the solicitor.
   H.   The solicitor shall not use obscene language or gestures. (Ord. 2006-
18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-19: TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at a
residence before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Mountain Time, unless the solicitor has express prior permission from the
resident to do so. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-20: BUYER'S RIGHT TO CANCEL:
In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain buyer's signature to a written
statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the third
business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "buyer's
right to cancel" shall be in the form required by section 70C-5-103, Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, or a current version thereof or any state or federal law
modifying or amending such provision. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
3-4-21: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or a jail sentence of not to exceed six (6)
months. (Ord. 2006-18, 9-21-2006, eff. 9-21-2006)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Defined
3-5-2: Permit Required
3-5-3: Application For Permit
3-5-4: Issuance Of Permit
3-5-5: Control Of Animal And Fowl Facilities
3-5-6: Existing Businesses And Facilities
3-5-1: DEFINED:
"Offensive businesses", within the meaning of this chapter, shall include, but
not be limited to, packing houses, dairies, tanneries, canneries, renderies,
junk or salvage yards, bone factories, slaughter houses, butcher shops, soap
factories, foundries, breweries, distilleries, livery stables, blacksmith
shops, or any other enterprise or establishment which creates excessive odors,
fumes, smoke, gases or noises. (1982 Code § 10-241B)
3-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall commence or change the location of an offensive business or
establishment in or within one mile of the limits of the city without first
filing an application for a permit to do so with the city recorder. (1982 Code
§ 10-241A)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The application for a permit shall specify the location at which the business
or establishment is to be operated and maintained or the new location to which
it is to be moved. The application shall describe the type of activity which
will be conducted and describe the manner in which the business or
establishment shall eliminate, control, or modify the emission by the business
of the undesirable odors, fumes, noises, and other noisome features and the
manner in which it shall be screened from public view, if its appearance is
offensive. (1982 Code § 10-241C)
3-5-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Report And Recommendation: The city recorder shall cause a study to be
made of the proposed business or relocation of any offensive business or
establishment by the board of health and by personnel engaged in the inspection
of buildings and other facilities. A report and recommendation shall be made to
the city council. The city council, after review, may grant to the applicant an
opportunity to be heard and present additional facts. Thereafter the city
council may:
      1.   Deny the application.
      2.   Recommend a modification thereof.
      3.   Grant a limited permit to enter into the business or make the change
of location subject to the requirement that the business or facility conform to
standards established by the city council with reference to controlling the
offensive features of the business.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: In the event a permit is granted, it shall be
subject to revocation either upon failure of the operator or owner to conduct
his business in the manner specified by the city council at the time of the
granting of the permit, or because a change of circumstances makes the
continued operation or maintenance of the business or facility a public
nuisance.
   C.   Modification Of Permit: The city council shall have power to revoke or
modify the permission to operate and maintain the business in such a manner as
it deems necessary for the public good. (1982 Code § 10-242)
3-5-5: CONTROL OF ANIMAL AND FOWL FACILITIES:
   A.   Location And Management: The city council shall have the power to
prohibit or control the location and management of any offensive, unwholesome
business or establishment in or within one mile of the city and may compel the
owner of any pigsty, privy, barn corral, fur bearing animal farm, feed yard,
poultry farm, or other unwholesome or nauseous house or place, to cleanse,
abate or remove the same.
   B.   Examination Of Operation: The city council may, on its own initiative
and shall, on complaint of a member of the public, examine the operation,
control or location of any business or facility for the purpose of determining
whether or not the operation of such business or facility should be improved so
as to minimize the offensive and unwholesome characteristics or whether the
business or activity should be moved or abated.
   C.   Notification Of Abatement: In the event that the city council decides
that the business or facility should be abated, removed, or controlled, it
shall notify the owner or operator of the business or facility of such fact.
(1982 Code § 10-244)
   D.   Hearing; Limited Permit: After a hearing, the city council may issue a
limited permit wherein it may prescribe the specifications and standard which
must be followed by the business or facility in order to be permitted to
continue in operation. (1982 Code § 10-244; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Abatement Or Removal: Upon a determination by the city council that the
business or facility is a nuisance, it shall have power to order the abatement
or removal of the facility or establishment. If the owner fails to conform to
such order, the city council shall have power to bring all necessary legal
proceedings to force removal, abatement or adherence to standards. (1982 Code §
10-244)
3-5-6: EXISTING BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES:
   A.   Investigation By City Council: The city council may require an
investigation of any existing offensive business or facility to determine
whether or not it should be permitted to remain in existence in or within one
mile of the city limits. If the city council determines that the continuation
of the business or facility has become a nuisance to persons situated within
the city limits or that ample control is not being exercised to minimize the
creation of excessive odors, fumes, smoke, gases, and noise, it shall notify
the owner or operator thereof that the city council is considering revoking or
modifying the operator's permit.
   B.   Conform To Standards And Specifications: If the city council decides to
require a modification of the manner in which the business or facility is to be
maintained, it shall specify the standards or specifications to which the
enterprise must conform or otherwise lose its permit to engage thereafter in
the business or activity. (1982 Code § 10-243; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES 1
SECTION:
3-6-1: Title For Citation
3-6-2: Purpose Of Provisions
3-6-3: Application Of Provisions
3-6-4: Definitions
3-6-5: Obscenity And Lewdness Statutory Provisions
3-6-6: Location And Zoning Restrictions
3-6-7: Business License Required
3-6-8: Exemptions From License Requirement
3-6-9: Legitimate Artistic Modeling
3-6-10: Business Categories; Number Of Licenses
3-6-11: Employee Licenses
3-6-12: Application For License; Disclosures Required
3-6-13: Fees For License
3-6-14: Bond Required
3-6-15: Premises Location And Name
3-6-16: Issuance Conditions
3-6-17: Term Of License
3-6-18: Notice Of Change Of Information
3-6-19: Transfer Limitations
3-6-20: Display Of License
3-6-21: Statement In Advertisements
3-6-22: Regulations And Unlawful Activities
3-6-23: Outcall Services; Operation Requirements
3-6-24: Adult Business; Design Of Premises
3-6-25: Seminude Entertainment Business
3-6-26: Alcohol Prohibited
3-6-27: Seminude Dancing Agencies
3-6-28: Performers; Prohibited Activities
3-6-29: Patrons; Prohibited Activities
3-6-30: Nudity; Defenses To Prosecution
3-6-31: Existing Businesses; Compliance Time Limits
3-6-32: Violation; Injunction
3-6-33: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-6-34: Effect Of License Revocation
3-6-35: Appeal Procedures
3-6-36: Violation; Penalty; Responsibility
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 10, chapter 16 of this code for zoning provisions.
3-6-1: TITLE FOR CITATION:
The provisions codified in this chapter shall be known and may be referred to
as the SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 02-
04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-2: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
It is the purpose and object of this chapter that the city establish reasonable
and uniform regulations governing the time, place and manner of operation of
sexually oriented businesses and their employees in the city. This chapter
shall be construed to protect the governmental interests recognized by this
chapter in a manner consistent with constitutional protections provided by the
United States and Utah constitutions. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive
to 4-4-2002)
3-6-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on certain
business activities which are characterized as sexually oriented businesses,
and certain employees of those businesses characterized as sexually oriented
business employees. Except where the context or specific provisions require,
this chapter does not supersede or nullify any other related ordinances,
resolutions or orders. In the event of a conflict with a previously adopted
ordinance or resolution, the provisions of this chapter shall govern. (Ord. 02-
04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment:
   A.   Which excludes minors from more than fifteen percent (15%) of the
retail floor or shelf space of the premises; or
   B.   Which, as one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rental, for
any form of consideration, any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes or video reproductions, slides or other visual representations,
the central theme of which depicts or describes "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas", or instruments, devices or paraphernalia which
are designated for use in connection with "specified sexual activities", except
for legitimate medically recognized contraceptives.
ADULT BUSINESS: An adult motion picture theater, adult bookstore or adult video
store.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment which:
   A.   Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions of
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions (repeated showings of any single presentation shall not be
considered a consecutive exhibition); or
   B.   As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions
which are primarily characterized by the depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which:
   A.   Holds itself out as such a business; or
   B.   Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions of
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions (repeated performance of the same presentation shall not be
considered a consecutive exhibition); or
   C.   As its principal business, features persons who appear in live
performances in a state of seminudity or which are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
EMPLOY: Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary or any other form of
compensation, whether such person is hired on the payroll of the employer, as
an independent contractor, as an agent, or in any other form of employment or
employment type contract relationship.
ESCORT: Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes, visits,
consorts with or accompanies or offers to date, consort, socialize, visit or
accompany another or others to or about social affairs, entertainment or places
of amusement, or within any place of public or private resort or any business
or commercial establishment or any private quarters. "Escort" shall not be
construed to include persons who provide business or personal services, such as
licensed private nurses, aides for the elderly or handicapped, social
secretaries or similar service personnel whose relationship with their patron
is characterized by a bona fide contractual relationship having a duration of
more than twelve (12) hours and who provide a service not principally
characterized as dating or socializing. "Escort" shall also not be construed to
include persons providing services such as singing telegrams, birthday
greetings or similar activities characterized by appearances in a public place,
contracted for by a party other than the person for whom the service is being
performed and of a duration not longer than one hour.
ESCORT SERVICE: An individual or entity who, for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes or offers to furnish escorts, or provides or offers to introduce
patrons to escorts.
ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER: Any third person, not an escort, who, for pecuniary
compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service,
escort or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services, escorts or
patrons at any location within the city, whether or not such third person is
employed by such escort service, escort, patron or by another business, or is
an independent contractor or self-employed.
NUDITY: A state of dress in which the areola of the female breast or male or
female genitals, pubic region or anus are covered by less than the covering
required in the definition of "seminude".
OPERATOR: The manager or other natural person principally in charge of a
sexually oriented business.
OUTCALL SERVICES: Services of a type performed by a sexually oriented business
employee outside of the premises of the licensed sexually oriented business,
including, but not limited to, escorts, models, dancers and other similar
employees.
PATRON: Any person who contracts with or employs any escort services or escort,
or the customer of any business licensed pursuant to this chapter.
PECUNIARY COMPENSATION: Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward, or any other form of consideration.
PERSON: Any person, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership or
other legal entity.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the
areola of the female breast, and the male or female genitals, pubic region and
anus. The areola of the female breast, and the male or female genitals, pubic
region and anus shall be fully covered by an opaque covering no narrower than
four inches (4") wide in the front and five inches (5") wide in the back, which
shall not taper to less than one inch (1") wide at the narrowest point.
SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY: Any person, agency, firm, corporation, partnership, or
any other entity or individual which furnishes, books, or otherwise engages or
offers to furnish, book, or otherwise engage the service of a professional
dancer licensed pursuant to this chapter for performance or appearance at a
business licensed for adult theaters.
SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: A business, including an adult theater, where
employees perform or appear in the presence of patrons of the business in a
state of seminudity. A business shall also be presumed to be a seminude
entertainment business if the business holds itself out as such a business.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Seminude entertainment businesses, sexually
oriented outcall services, adult businesses, and seminude dancing agencies, as
defined by this chapter.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES: Those employees who work on the premises
of a sexually oriented business in activities related to the sexually oriented
portion of the business. This includes all managing employees, dancers,
escorts, models and other similar employees, whether or not hired as employees,
agents or as independent contractors. Employees shall not, for the purposes of
this chapter, include individuals whose work is unrelated to the sexually
oriented portion of the business, such as janitors, bookkeepers, and similar
employees. Sexually oriented business employees shall not include cooks,
serving persons, and similar employees, except where they may be managers or
supervisors of the business. All persons making, arranging for or participating
in outcall meetings under this chapter, including escorts, models, guards,
escort runners, drivers, chauffeurs and other similar employees, shall be
considered sexually oriented business employees.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: The human male or female pubic area or anus with
less than a full opaque covering, or the human female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola, with less than full opaque covering.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Acts of:
      1. Masturbation,
      2. Human sexual intercourse,
      3. Sexual copulation between a person and a beast,
      4. Fellatio,
      5. Cunnilingus,
      6. Bestiality,
      7. Pederasty,
      8. Buggery, or
      9. Any anal copulation between a human male and another human male, human
female or beast.
   B.   Manipulating, caressing or fondling by any person of:
      1. The genitals of a human,
      2. The pubic area of a human,
      3. The breast or breasts of a human female.
   C.   Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in undergarments, a
mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002,
eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-5: OBSCENITY AND LEWDNESS; STATUTORY PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or display of any matter
which is contrary to applicable federal or state statutes or case law
prohibiting obscenity.
   B.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to permit or allow conduct or the showing or display of
any matter which is contrary to the applicable provisions of state or city law
regarding "lewdness"; provided, however, that for the purpose of sexually
oriented businesses, the definition of "private parts" shall be construed to
mean "nudity" as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff.
retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-6: LOCATION AND ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business at any
location within the city not zoned for such business. Sexually oriented
businesses licensed as adult businesses or seminude entertainment businesses
pursuant to this chapter shall only be allowed in areas zoned for their use
pursuant to the zoning ordinance and as authorized herein. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-
2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-7: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business, as
specified herein, without first obtaining a general business license and a
sexually oriented business license. The sexually oriented business license
shall specify the type of business for which it is obtained. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-
2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENT:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sex therapist or similar
individual licensed by the state to provide bona fide sexual therapy or
counseling, licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse, psychiatrist or
psychologist, nor shall it apply to any educator licensed by the state for
activities in the classroom. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-
2002)
3-6-9: LEGITIMATE ARTISTIC MODELING:
   A.   The city does not intend to unreasonably or improperly prohibit
legitimate modeling which may occur in a state of nudity for purposes protected
by the first amendment or similar state protections. The city does intend to
prohibit prostitution and related offenses occurring under the guise of nude
modeling. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 3-6-22J of this chapter,
a licensed outcall employee may appear in a state of nudity before a customer
or patron; providing, that a written contract for such appearance was entered
into between the customer or patron and the employee and signed at least twenty
four (24) hours before the nude appearance. All of the other applicable
provisions of this chapter shall still apply to such nude appearance.
   B.   In the event of a contract for nude modeling or appearance signed more
than forty eight (48) hours in advance of the modeling or appearance, the
individual to appear nude shall not be required to obtain a license pursuant to
this chapter. During such unlicensed nude appearance, it is unlawful to:
      1. Appear nude or seminude in the presence of persons under the age of
eighteen (18);
      2. Allow, offer or agree to any touching of the contracting party or
other person by the individual appearing nude;
      3. Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing:
         a. Fellatio,
         b. Cunnilingus,
         c. Bestiality,
         d. Pederasty,
         e. Buggery, or
         f. Any anal copulation between a human male and another human male,
human female or beast. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
      4. Allow, offer or agree to manipulating, caressing or fondling by any
person of:
         a. The genitals of a human,
         b. The pubic area of a human,
         c. The breast or breasts of a human female.
      5. Allow, offer or agree to flagellation or torture by or upon a person
clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being
fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of the one so
clothed. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
3-6-10: BUSINESS CATEGORIES; NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any business premises to operate or be licensed for
more than one category of sexually oriented business, except that a business
may have a license for both outcall services and a seminude dancing agency on
the same premises.
   B.   The categories of sexually oriented businesses for which a license may
and must be obtained are:
      1. Outcall services;
      2. Adult businesses;
      3. Seminude entertainment businesses;
      4. Seminude dancing agency. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-
4-2002)
3-6-11: EMPLOYEE LICENSES:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to employ or for any
individual to be employed by a sexually oriented business in the capacity of a
sexually oriented business employee, unless that employee first obtains a
sexually oriented business employee license. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff.
retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-12: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; DISCLOSURES REQUIRED:
   A.   Information Required: Before any applicant may be licensed to operate a
sexually oriented business or as a sexually oriented business employee pursuant
to this chapter, the applicant shall submit, on a form to be supplied by the
city license authority, the following:
      1. The correct legal name of each applicant, corporation, partnership,
limited partnership or entity doing business under an assumed name;
      2. If the applicant is a corporation, partnership or limited partnership,
or individual or entity doing business under an assumed name, the information
required below for individual applicants shall be submitted for each partner
and each principal of an applicant, and for each officer, director and any
shareholder (corporate or personal) of more than ten percent (10%) of the stock
of any applicant. Any holding company, or any entity holding more than ten
percent (10%) of an applicant shall be considered an applicant for purposes of
disclosure under this chapter;
      3. All corporations, partnerships or noncorporate entities included on
the application shall also identify each individual authorized by the
corporation, partnership or noncorporate entity to sign the checks for such
corporation, partnership or noncorporate entity;
      4. For all applicants or individuals, the application must also state:
         a. Any other names or aliases used by the individual;
         b. The age, date and place of birth;
         c. Height;
         d. Weight;
         e. Color of hair;
         f. Color of eyes;
         g. Present business address and telephone number;
         h. Present residence and telephone number;
         i. Utah drivers license or identification number; and
         j. Social security number.
      5. Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least eighteen (18)
years of age; (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
      6. Attached to the form, as provided above, two (2) color photographs of
the applicant clearly showing the individual's face and the individual's
fingerprints on a form provided by the city or its designee. For persons not
residing in the city, the photographs and fingerprints may be on a form from
the law enforcement jurisdiction where the person resides. Fees for the
photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant directly to the
issuing agency; (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002; amd. 2003
Code)
      7. For any individual applicant required to obtain a sexually oriented
business employee license as an escort or a seminude entertainer, a certificate
from the county health department, stating that the individual has, within
thirty (30) days immediately preceding the date of the original or renewal
application, been examined and found to be free of any contagious or
communicable diseases;
      8. A statement of the business, occupation or employment history of the
applicant for three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the fling of
the application;
      9. A statement detailing the license or permit history of the applicant
for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application, including whether such applicant previously operating or
seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city, state or territory, has
ever had a license, permit or authorization to do business denied, revoked or
suspended, or has had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation or
suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction,
and state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy
of any order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the
application;
      10. All criminal convictions or pleas of nolo contendere, except those
which have been expunged, and the disposition of all such arrests for the
applicant, individual or other entity subject to disclosure under this chapter,
for five (5) years prior to the date of the application. This disclosure shall
include identification of all ordinance violations, excepting minor traffic
offenses (any traffic offense designated as a felony shall not be construed as
a minor traffic offense), stating the date, place, nature of each conviction or
plea of nolo contendere and sentence of each conviction or other disposition,
identifying the convicting jurisdiction and sentencing court, and providing the
court identifying case numbers or docket numbers. Application for a sexually
oriented business or employee license shall constitute a waiver of disclosure
of any criminal conviction or plea of nolo contendere for the purpose of any
proceedings involving the business or employee license;
      11. In the event the applicant is not the owner of record of the real
property upon which the business or proposed business is or is to be located,
the application must be accompanied by a notarized statement from the legal or
equitable owner of the possessory interest in the property specifically
acknowledging the type of business for which the applicant seeks a license for
the property. In addition to furnishing such notarized statement, the applicant
shall furnish the name, address and phone number of the owner of record of the
property, as well as the copy of the lease or rental agreement pertaining to
the premises in which the service is or will be located;
      12. A description of the services to be provided by the business, with
sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to determine what business
will be transacted on the premises, together with a schedule of usual fees for
services to be charged by the licensee, and any rules, regulations or
employment guidelines under or by which the business intends to operate. This
description shall also include:
         a. The hours that the business or service will be open to the public,
and the methods of promoting the health and safety of the employees and patrons
and preventing them from engaging in illegal activity;
         b. The methods of supervision preventing the employees from engaging
in acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities;
         c. The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this chapter or other statutes or ordinances;
         d. The methods of screening employees and customers in order to
promote the health and safety of employees and customers and prevent the
transmission of disease, and prevent the commission of acts of prostitution or
other criminal activity.
   B.   Submitting False Or Misleading Information Unlawful: It is unlawful to
knowingly submit false or materially misleading information on or with a
sexually oriented business license application or to fail to disclose or omit
information for the purpose of obtaining a sexually oriented business or
employee license. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-13: FEES FOR LICENSE:
Each applicant for a sexually oriented business or employee license shall be
required to pay regulatory license fees as set forth in the consolidated fee
schedule of the city. An application is not complete until all appropriate fees
have been paid. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-14: BOND REQUIRED:
Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall post, with the
city recorder or city treasurer, a cash or corporate surety bond payable to the
city in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). Any fines assessed
against the business, officers or managers for violations of city ordinances
shall be taken from this bond if not paid in cash within ten (10) days after
notice of the fine, unless an appeal is filed as provided by this chapter. In
the event the funds are drawn against the cash or surety bond to pay such
fines, the bond shall be replenished to two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) within
fifteen (15) days of the date of notice of any draw against it. (Ord. 02-04, 4-
8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-15: PREMISES LOCATION AND NAME:
   A.   It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued pursuant to
this chapter at any location other than the licensed premises. Any location to
which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by such business shall
require a separate license.
   B.   It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business in the
city under any name other than the business name specified in the application.
(Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-16: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS:
The city recorder shall approve the issuance of a license to the applicant
within thirty (30) days after receipt of a completed application, unless the
city recorder or city manager finds one or more of the following:
   A. The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
   B. The applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines or
penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed on the applicant in
relation to a sexually oriented business;
   C. The applicant has falsely answered a material question or request for
information as authorized by this chapter;
   D. The applicant has violated a provision of this chapter or similar
provisions found in statutes or ordinances from any jurisdiction within two (2)
years immediately preceding the application; a criminal conviction for a
violation of a provision of this chapter or similar provisions from any
jurisdiction, whether or not it is being appealed, is conclusive evidence of a
violation, but a conviction is not necessary to prove a violation; (Ord. 02-04,
4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
   E. The premises to be used for the business have been disapproved by the
county health department, the fire department or fire marshal, the building
officials or the zoning officials as not being in compliance with applicable
laws and ordinances of the city. If any of the foregoing reviewing agencies
cannot complete their review within the thirty (30) day approval or denial
period, the agency or department may obtain from the city recorder or city
manager an extension of time of no more than fifteen (15) additional days to
complete their review. The total time for the city to approve or deny a license
shall not exceed forty five (45) days from the receipt of a completed
application and payment of all fees. Businesses located outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city, but requiring a license under this chapter,
may be denied a license pursuant to this chapter if the business does not have
a valid business license to conduct business at the business location from the
appropriate jurisdiction for that location; (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff.
retroactive to 4-4-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
      1. Upon receipt of an application, all departments required to review the
application shall determine within seven (7) days whether or not the
application is complete and that all items needed for processing have been
provided. Incomplete applications shall immediately be returned to the
applicant with a specification of the items which are incomplete;
      2. The time for processing applications specified in this section shall
begin to run from the receipt of a complete application;
      3. In the event that a license for seminude entertainment, seminude
dancing agencies, adult businesses or seminude entertainment businesses has not
been disapproved within thirty (30) days, or the forty five (45) days allowed
after an extension, the city shall issue the license pending completion of the
city's review;
      4. Any license issued pursuant to subsection E3 of this section may be
revoked by the city, pursuant to the revocation procedures provided for herein,
if the completed review determines that the license should have been denied.
   F. The required license fees have not been paid;
   G. All applicable sales and use taxes have not been paid;
   H. An applicant for the proposed business is in violation of or not in
compliance with this chapter or similar provisions found in statutes or
ordinances from any jurisdiction where the applicant is or has been conducting
a sexually oriented business;
   I. An applicant has been convicted or pled nolo contendere to a crime
involving prostitution; exploitation of prostitution; aggravated promotion of
prostitution; aggravated exploitation of prostitution; solicitation of sex
acts; sex acts for hire; compelling prostitution; aiding prostitution; sale,
distribution or display of material harmful to minors; sexual performance by
minors; possession of child pornography; lewdness; indecent exposure; any crime
involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child; sexual assault or aggravated
sexual assault; rape; forcible sodomy; forcible sexual abuse; incest; harboring
a runaway child; criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses or offenses involving similar elements from any
jurisdiction, regardless of the exact title of the offense, for which:
      1. Less than two (2) years have elapsed front the date of conviction, if
the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense, or less than five (5) years if the
convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanors within the five (5) years; or
      2. Less than five (5) years have elapsed from the date of conviction, if
the offense is of a felony.
   J. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the
disqualification provided for pursuant to this section. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002,
eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-17: TERM OF LICENSE:
Sexually oriented business and employee licenses issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be valid from the date of issuance and for twelve (12) months
thereafter. The license fees required shall be as provided under the city's
consolidated fee schedule. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-18: NOTICE OF CHANGE OF INFORMATION:
Any change in the information required to be submitted under this chapter for
either a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business
employee license shall be given, in writing, to the city recorder or city
manager within fourteen (14) days after such change. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002,
eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
3-6-19: TRANSFER LIMITATIONS:
Sexually oriented business licenses granted under this chapter shall not be
transferable. It is unlawful for a license held by an individual to be
transferred. It is unlawful for a license held by a corporation, partnership or
other noncorporate entity to transfer any part in excess of ten percent (10%)
thereof, without filing a new application and obtaining prior city approval. If
any transfer of the controlling interest in a business licensee occurs, the
license is immediately null and void, and the business shall not operate until
a separate new license has been properly issued by the city as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-20: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business location within the
boundaries of the city to fail to display the license granted pursuant to this
chapter in a prominent location within the business premises. It is unlawful
for any individual licensed pursuant to this chapter to fail to carry, at all
times while engaged in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries of
the city, their employee license on their person. If the individual is nude,
such license shall be visibly displayed within the same room where the employee
is performing. When requested by police, city licensing or other enforcement
personnel or health official, it is unlawful to fail to show the appropriate
licenses while engaged in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries
of the city. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-21: STATEMENT IN ADVERTISEMENTS:
It is unlawful for any advertisement by the sexually oriented business or
employee to fail to state that the business or employee is licensed by the
city, and shall include the city license number. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff.
retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-22: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented business
employee to:
   A.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years on the licensed
premises, except that in adult businesses which exclude minors from less than
all of the business premises, minors shall not be permitted in excluded areas;
   B.   Allow, offer or agree to conduct any outcall business with persons
under the age of eighteen (18) years;
   C.   Allow, offer or agree to allow any alcohol to be stored, used or
consumed on or in the licensed premises;
   D.   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any customer
is in the premises;
   E.   Allow, offer or agree to gambling on the licensed premises;
   F.   Allow, offer or agree to any sexually oriented business employee
touching or being touched by any patron or customer; except that outcall
employees and customers may touch, except that any touching of specified
anatomical areas, whether clothed or unclothed, is prohibited;
   G.   Allow, offer or agree to illegal possession, use, sale or distribution
of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
   H.   Allow sexually oriented business employees to possess, use, sell or
distribute controlled substances while engaged in the activities of the
business;
   I.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor, or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of an outcall employee
or business, the outcall employee committing, offering or agreeing to commit
prostitution, attempting to commit prostitution, soliciting prostitution,
soliciting a minor or committing activities harmful to a minor;
   J.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any "specified sexual activity", as
validly defined by city ordinances or state statute, in the presence of any
customer or patron;
   K.   Allow, offer or agree to any outcall employee appearing before any
customer or patron in a state of nudity;
   L.   Allow, offer or agree to allow a patron or customer to masturbate in
the presence of the sexually oriented business employee or on the premises of a
sexually oriented business;
   M.   Allow, offer or agree to commit an act of "lewdness", as defined at
Utah Code Annotated section 76-9-702, or any equivalent or subsequent statute,
said definition being incorporated herein by this reference. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-
2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-23: OUTCALL SERVICES; OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any business or employee providing outcall services
contracted for in the city to fail to comply with the following requirements:
   A.   All businesses licensed to provide outcall services pursuant to this
chapter shall provide to each patron a written contract in receipt of pecuniary
compensation for services. The contract shall clearly state the type of
services to be performed, the length of time such services shall be performed,
the total amount such services shall cost the patron, and any special terms or
conditions relating to the services to be performed. The contract need not
include the name of the patron. The business licensee shall keep and maintain a
copy of each written contract entered into pursuant to this section for a
period not less than one year from the date of provision of services
thereunder. The contracts shall be numbered and entered into a register listing
the contract number, date, names of all employees involved in the contract and
pecuniary compensation paid.
   B.   All outcall businesses licensed pursuant to this chapter shall maintain
an open office or telephone at which the licensee or licensee's designated
agent may be personally contacted during all hours outcall employees are
working. The address and phone number of the license location shall appear and
be included in all patron contracts and published advertisements. For outcall
businesses which premises are licensed within the corporate limits of the city,
private rooms or booths where the patrons may meet with the outcall employee
shall not be provided at the open office or any other location by the service,
nor shall patrons meet outcall employees at the business premises.
   C.   Outcall services shall not advertise in such a manner that would lead a
reasonably prudent person to conclude that specified sexual activities would be
performed by the outcall employee.
   D.   All employees of outcall services who provide outcall services within
the city shall be licensed in accordance with this chapter, regardless of the
primary location of the business. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-
4-2002)
3-6-24: ADULT BUSINESS; DESIGN OF PREMISES:
   A.   In addition to the general requirements of disclosure for a sexually
oriented business, any applicant for a license as an adult business shall also
submit a diagram, drawn to scale, of the premises of the licensee. The design
and construction, prior to granting a license or opening for business, shall
conform to the following:
      1. The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms.
      2. Restrooms may not contain any video reproduction equipment or any of
the business merchandise. Signs shall be posted requiring only one person being
allowed in the restroom per stall, and only one person in any stall at a time,
and requiring that patrons shall not be allowed access to manager's station
areas.
      3. For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all
windows, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded.
      4. The diagram required shall not necessarily be a professional
engineer's or architect's blueprint; however, the diagram must show marked
internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures and ratings for
illumination capacity.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the licensee and the licensee's employees to
ensure that the views from the manager's station in subsection A of this
section remain unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or
any other materials at all times that any patron is present in the premises,
and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted.
   C.   The premises shall at all times be equipped and operated with overhead
lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which
patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot-
candle, measured at floor level. It shall be the duty of the licensee and the
licensee's employees present on the premises to ensure that the illumination
described above is maintained at all times that any patron is present in the
premises. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-25: SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS:
   A.   Design Of Premises:
      1. It is unlawful for business premises licensed for seminude
entertainment to:
         a. Permit a bed, sofa, mattress or similar item in any room on the
premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the
public or in any office to which patrons are not admitted, and except that in
an adult theater such items may be on the stage as part of a performance;
         b. Allow any door on any room used for the business, except for the
door to an office to which patrons shall not be admitted, outside doors and
restroom doors to be lockable from the inside;
         c. Provide any room in which the employee or employees and the patron
or patrons are alone together without a separation by a solid physical barrier
at least three feet (3') high and six inches (6") wide. The patron or patrons
shall remain on one side of the barrier and the employee or employees shall
remain on the other side of the barrier.
   B.   Adult theaters shall also require that the performance area shall be
separated from the patrons by a minimum of three feet (3'), which separation
shall be delineated by a physical barrier at least three feet (3') high.
   C.   Location Restriction: It is unlawful for any business licensed for
seminude entertainment to be located within three hundred thirty feet (330') of
a business licensed for the sale or consumption of alcohol. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-
2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-26: ALCOHOL PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any business licensed pursuant to this chapter to
allow the sale, storage, supply or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage on the premises of any sexually oriented business. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-
2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-27: SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCIES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or
otherwise engage the services of a professional dancer, model or performer to
appear in a state of seminudity for pecuniary compensation in or for any
seminude entertainment business or adult theater of the type required by to
this chapter to be licensed, unless such agency is licensed pursuant to this
chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or
otherwise engage or permit any person to perform as a professional dancer,
model or performer in a state of seminudity or nudity, either gratuitously or
for compensation, in or for any business licensed pursuant to this chapter,
unless such person is licensed pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002,
eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-28: PERFORMERS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any professional dancer, model or performer, while
performing in any business licensed pursuant to this chapter, to:
   A.   Touch in any manner any other person;
   B.   Throw any object or clothing off the stage area;
   C.   Accept any money, drink or any other object directly from any person;
   D.   Allow another person to touch such performer or to place any money or
object on the performer or within the costume or person of the performer; or
   E.   Place anything within the costume or adjust or move the costume while
performing so as to render the performer in a state of nudity. (Ord. 02-04, 4-
8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-29: PATRONS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any person or any patron of any business to touch in any
manner any performer; to place any money or object on or within the costume or
person of any performer; or to give or offer to give to any such performer any
drinks, money or object while such performer is performing; except that money
may be placed on the stage, which shall not be picked up by the performer
except by hand. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-30: NUDITY; DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION:
It is a defense to prosecution or violation under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   A.   By a proprietary school licensed by the state, or a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   B.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation. (Ord. 02-04, 4-
8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-31: EXISTING BUSINESSES; COMPLIANCE TIME LIMITS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described herein, whether the herein described activities were
established before or after the effective date hereof and regardless of whether
such persons and businesses are currently licensed to do business in the city.
      1. All such persons and businesses requiring outcall service licenses
shall have forty five (45) days from the effective date hereof, or until their
current license expires, whichever occurs first in time, to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
      2. All seminude dancing agency licensees shall have seventy five (75)
days from the effective date hereof, or until their license must be renewed,
whichever occurs first, to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      3. All adult businesses and seminude entertainment businesses shall have
one hundred thirty five (135) days from the effective date hereof, or until
their current license must be renewed, whichever occurs first, to comply with
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   For the year 2002-2003, all businesses required by this chapter to be
licensed as sexually oriented businesses shall be credited against the fees
required in the consolidated fee schedule with the regulatory license fees paid
for the current 2002-2003 license, as applicable. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff.
retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-32: VIOLATION; INJUNCTION:
An entity or individual who operates or causes a sexually oriented business to
be operated without a valid license, or who employs or is employed as an
employee of a sexually oriented business, or who operates such a business or
functions as such an employee in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
is subject to a suit for injunction in addition to the civil and criminal
violations provided herein, and any other remedy available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
3-6-33: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The city may issue a notice suspending or revoking a sexually oriented
business or employee license granted under this chapter if a licensee or an
employee of the licensee has:
      1. Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter;
      2. Refused to allow any inspection of the premises of the sexually
oriented business specifically authorized by this chapter or by any other
statute or ordinance;
      3. Failed to replenish the cost bond as provided in this chapter (such a
suspension shall extend until the bond has been replenished);
      4. Given materially false or misleading information in obtaining the
license;
      5. Knowingly operated the sexually oriented business or worked under an
employee license during the period when the business licensee or employee
licensee's license was suspended;
      6. Committed an offense which would be grounds for denial of a license
for which the time period required to run has not yet elapsed;
      7. On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed in or on, or solicited for on the licensed
premises, or an outcall employee solicited or committed on or off the premises,
an offense which would be grounds for denial of a license for which a
conviction has been obtained, and the person or persons were employees, whether
or not licensed, of the sexually oriented business at the time the offenses
were committed;
      8. A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem taxes,
or sales taxes related to the sexually oriented business.
   B.   Suspension or revocation shall take effect within fifteen (15) days of
the issuance of notice, unless an appeal is filed as provided by this chapter.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-
2002)
3-6-34: EFFECT OF LICENSE REVOCATION:
When a license issued pursuant to this chapter is revoked, the revocation shall
continue for one year from its effective date, and a sexually oriented business
or employee license shall not be issued or reissued a license for one year from
the date of such revocation. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-
2002)
3-6-35: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
The denial, suspension or revocation of any license issued pursuant to this
chapter may be appealed to the city recorder or city manager. The decision of
the city recorder or city manager may be appealed to the city council. The
decision of the city council shall be final. Appellants may be represented by
counsel at their own expense. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-
2002)
3-6-36: VIOLATION; PENALTY; RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   In addition to revocation or suspension of a license, as provided in
this chapter, each violator of this chapter shall, upon citation, be required
to pay a civil penalty in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Such
fines shall be deducted from the cost bond posted pursuant to this chapter,
unless paid within ten (10) days of notice of the fine or the final
determination after any appeal. In addition to the civil fines provided in this
chapter, the violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of a violation shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the sexually
oriented business licensee and/or operator, if such act or omission occurs
either with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee and/or
operator, or as a result of the licensee's and/or operator's negligent failure
to supervise the conduct of the employee, and the sexually oriented business
licensee shall be punishable for such act or omission in the same manner as if
the licensee committed the act or caused the omission.
   C.   A sexually oriented business licensee and/or operator shall be
responsible for the conduct of all employees while on the licensed premises,
and any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee
and/or operator for the purposes of determining whether the licensee's license
shall be revoked, suspended or renewed. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive
to 4-4-2002)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Established
4-1-2: Fire Chief Position Created
4-1-3: Powers And Duties Of Fire Chief
4-1-4: Designation Of Emergency Vehicles
4-1-5: Responsibilities, Rights And Restrictions
4-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created a fire department to be known as the Plain City fire
department. (1982 Code § 10-111)
4-1-2: FIRE CHIEF POSITION CREATED:
There is hereby created the position of chief of the fire department. (1982
Code § 10-121)
4-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Supervision Of Department: The fire chief shall have responsibility for
the general supervision of the department.
   B.   Control And Extinguish Fire: During a fire, the fire chief shall have
full authority to take all measures as he shall deem necessary, subject to
state law, to control and extinguish the fire and for that purpose he is hereby
made a special peace officer.
   C.   Report Information To City Council: The fire chief shall, at least
quarterly, report to the city council the condition of the fire equipment, the
number of fires and their causes and the estimated loss therefrom, together
with such other information as the city council may request or as he shall deem
appropriate.
   D.   Enforce Fire Protection And Prevention: The fire chief shall strictly
enforce all of the provisions of the ordinances of the city relating to the
protection against and prevention of fire.
   E.   Maintain Equipment: The fire chief shall maintain the equipment of the
department in good repair and order and ready for use.
   F.   Establish Rules And Regulations: The fire chief, subject to the
approval of the mayor and city council, shall establish rules and regulations
for the operation of the department.
   G.   Delegate Duties: The fire chief may delegate his duties to any person
employed by the department, but such delegation shall not relieve the fire
chief of his responsibility for the performance thereof.
   H.   Investigation Of Fires: The fire chief shall cause all fires to be
promptly investigated to determine the cause of the fire and report the cause
of the fire, the time originated and such other information as may be relevant
to prevent other fires. (1982 Code § 10-122)
   I.   Employ Firefighters And Personnel: The fire chief may make
recommendations to the mayor relating to the employment of firefighters and
such other personnel as may be necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The fire chief may employ such additional personnel as the mayor and
city council may direct or authorize. (1982 Code § 10-123)
4-1-4: DESIGNATION OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Fire trucks and other motor vehicles used to transport fire equipment or fire
personnel are hereby designated authorized emergency vehicles. (1982 Code § 10-
131; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-5: RESPONSIBILITIES, RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Removal Of Obstructions At Fire: The officer in charge at any fire may
order the removal or destruction of any fence, building or structure, or that
any utility be closed, cut or removed when deemed necessary to control,
extinguish or prevent the spread of fire. (1982 Code § 10-132)
   B.   Control Of Persons: All persons present at a fire shall obey the lawful
orders of any firefighter. (1982 Code § 10-133)
   C.   Interference With Firefighters In Discharge Of Duties: Every person at
the scene of any fire who wilfully disobeys the lawful orders of any public
officer or firefighter, or offers any resistance to or interference with the
efforts of any firefighter, or company of firefighters, to extinguish the same,
or engages in any disorderly conduct calculated to prevent the same from being
extinguished, or who forbids, prevents or dissuades others from assisting to
extinguish the same, is guilty of an infraction and upon conviction thereof,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1982 Code § 10-134; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Unlawful Interference: Any person who shall wilfully hinder any officer
or firefighter in the discharge of his duty at a fire, or in any manner injure,
deface or destroy any engine, hose or other fire apparatus belonging to the
city or who shall interfere with any fire company or person, or who shall
wilfully break or injure any water pipe or interfere with the water or its
source of supply, shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor and upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1982 Code § 10-135; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Investigation After Fire Report: The fire chief, or such other persons
as he shall designate, shall, after extinguishing a fire, make a prompt and
thorough investigation of the cause of the fire, the time the fire began, the
amount of loss and insurance, a description of the affected buildings and
premises, and shall secure all other useful information available, and record
the same in a record book kept for that purpose in the office of the department
and shall report the same to the city council at such time as it may direct.
(1982 Code § 10-136)
   F.   Right To Enter And Inspect: The fire chief or his deputies, upon
presentation of proper credentials, shall have the right to enter upon any
premises at all reasonable hours for the purpose of making inspections. (1982
Code § 10-137)
   G.   Persons Present Subject To Orders: Every capable person eighteen (18)
years or older present at a fire shall be subject to the orders of the officer
in command and shall render assistance in the manner directed by the officer in
command. (1982 Code § 10-138; amd. 2003 Code)
   H.   False Alarm: It shall be unlawful for any person to turn in or report
to the fire department a false alarm or report of a fire or to tamper or remove
any part of the fire alarm system. (1982 Code § 10-139)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Declaration Of Nuisance
4-2-3: Restroom Or Sewer Facilities
4-2-4: Restrictions On Blocking Water
4-2-5: Nuisances On Property
4-2-6: Abandoned Buildings
4-2-7: Abatement Procedure
4-2-8: Penalty For Failure To Comply
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AUTHOR: Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the outgrowth of the
usual, natural or necessary use of the property, the landlord or his agent, the
tenant or his agent, and all other persons having control of the property on
which such nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors thereof and shall
be equally liable and responsible. Where any such nuisance shall arise from the
unusual or unnecessary use of such property or from the business thereon
conducted, then the occupants and all other persons contributing to the
continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed the authors.
NUISANCE: Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders
soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome is declared to be a nuisance and
unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person either as an owner, agent or
occupant to create or aid in creating or contributing to or maintaining a
nuisance. (1982 Code §§ 10-311, 10-312; amd. 2003 Code)
4-2-2: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Statement: Every act or condition made, permitted, allowed or continued
in violation of section
4-2-1 of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated
and punished as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Specified: Nuisances include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Befouling Water: Befouling water in any spring, stream, well or
water source supplying water for culinary purposes. (1982 Code § 10-313)
      2.   Privies, Cesspools: Allowing any privy vault or cesspool, or other
individual wastewater disposal system, to become a menace to health or a source
of odors or contamination to air or water. (1982 Code § 10-313; amd. 2003 Code)
      3.   Garbage Containers, Offensive: Permitting any garbage container to
remain on premises when it has become unclean and offensive.
      4.   Garbage Accumulation: Allowing vegetable waste, garbage, litter,
filth or refuse of any nature to accumulate within or upon any private alley,
yard or area, except when it is temporarily deposited for immediate removal.
      5.   Manure Accumulation: Permitting the accumulation of manure in any
stable, stall, corral, feed yard, yard or in any other building or area in
which any animals are kept.
      6.   Slaughterhouses, Feed Yards: Permitting any slaughterhouse, market,
meat shop, stable, feed yard or other place or building wherein any animals are
slaughtered, kept, fed or sold to remain unclean or in any state or condition
detrimental to health or creating a nuisance because of odors, or in which
flies or rodents breed. (1982 Code § 10-313)
      7.   Discharging Offensive Water Or Liquid Waste: Discharging or placing
any offensive water, chemical spray, liquid waste or refuse of any kind into
any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural watercourse, ditch,
canal or any vacant lot or which, as the result of continued discharge, will
render the place of discharge offensive or likely to become so. (1982 Code §
10-313; amd. 2003 Code)
      8.   Collecting Grease, Offensive Matter: Keeping or collecting any stale
or putrid grease or other offensive matter.
      9.   Flies And Mosquitoes: Having or permitting upon any premises any fly
or mosquito producing condition.
      10.   Public Drinking Vessels: Keeping any drinking vessel for public use
without providing a method of decontamination between uses.
      11.   Ablutions Near Drinking Fountain: Permitting or performing any
ablutions in or near any public drinking fountain.
      12.   Boarding House Or Factory, Sanitary Condition: Failing to furnish
any dwelling house, boarding house or factory or other place of employment with
such privy vaults, water closets, sinks or other facilities as may be required
to maintain the same in sanitary condition.
      13.   Cleaning Privy Vaults: Neglecting or refusing to discontinue use
of, clean out, disinfect and fill up all privy vaults and cesspools or other
individual wastewater disposal systems within twenty (20) days after notice
from an enforcement officer or official of the city.
      14.   Stagnant Water; Offensive Substances: Permitting any lot or
excavation to become the repository of stagnant water or any decaying or
offensive substances.
      15.   Obstructing Public Ways, Watercourses, Parks: Obstructing or
tending to obstruct or interfere with or render dangerous for passage any
street or sidewalks, lake, stream, drainage, canal or basin, or any public park
without first obtaining the written permission of the city council. (1982 Code
§ 10-313)
   C.   Enumeration: The types of nuisances above stated shall be deemed in
addition to and in no way a limitation of the nuisances subject to this
chapter. (1982 Code § 10-314)
4-2-3: RESTROOM OR SEWER FACILITIES:
All restroom or sewer facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with Utah law and city ordinances. All such facilities that do not
comply with such provisions are hereby declared to be a nuisance and are
subject to abatement as herein prescribed. (1982 Code § 10-315; amd. 2003 Code)
4-2-4: RESTRICTIONS ON BLOCKING WATER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any drainage system,
canal, ditch, conduit or other watercourse of any kind or nature, natural or
artificial, to become so obstructed as to cause the water to back up and
overflow therefrom, or to become unsanitary.
   B.   Maintenance of any such watercourse in such condition shall constitute
a nuisance and the same shall be subject to abatement. (1982 Code § 10-316)
4-2-5: NUISANCES ON PROPERTY:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "nuisance" is
defined to mean any unsafe objects or structures and any condition or use of
premises or of building exteriors which are deleterious or injurious, noxious
or unsightly, which includes, but is not limited to, keeping or depositing on
or scattering over the premises any of the following: (Ord. 2009-10, 12-3-2009,
eff. 12-3-2009)
      1.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris. (1982 Code § 10-331)
      2.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, containers or
other discarded items not currently in use. (1982 Code § 10-331; amd. 2003
Code)
      3.   Scrap metal, wastepaper products, discarded building materials or
unused or abandoned vehicles. Unless a vehicle is stored on private property
and out of public view, it shall be prima facie presumed abandoned if it has
not been registered and inspected within thirty (30) days after the date on
which such registration and inspection is required by the laws of the state. A
vehicle shall be prima facie presumed unused when it has set in substantially
the same location and in public view for a continuous period of thirty (30)
days. (1982 Code § 10-331)
   B.   Duty Of Maintenance: No person owning, leasing, occupying or having
charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall
any such person keep or maintain such premises in any manner causing
substantial diminution in the value of the other property in the neighborhood
in which such premises are located. (1982 Code § 10-332)
   C.   Storage Of Personal Property: Unsheltered storage of old, unused,
stripped and junked machinery, implements, equipment or personal property of
any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purpose for which it was
manufactured, for a period of thirty (30) days or more (except in licensed
junkyards) within the city, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous
to the public safety. (1982 Code § 10-333)
   D.   Abatement By Owners: The owner, owners, tenants, lessees or occupants
of any lot within the city on which such "storage", as defined in subsection C
of this section, is made, and also the owner, owners or lessees of the above
described personal property involved in such storage, shall jointly and
severally abate such nuisance by its prompt removal into completely enclosed
and secured yards or buildings to be used for such purposes, or otherwise
remove such property from the city. (1982 Code § 10-334)
4-2-6: ABANDONED BUILDINGS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: It is the purpose and intent of this section to
impose a legal duty upon the owners of vacant buildings and properties to
secure them, to prevent the buildings from deteriorating into havens for crime
and vagrancy to the degree that a nuisance is created, ruining the safe,
peaceful and quiet enjoyment of neighboring properties. This section creates a
system to notify owners of the problems reasonably attributable to their vacant
property and a process to secure the vacant property.
   B.   Definitions:
    ABANDONED BUILDING/SITE: A site or building in which construction has not
been completed and the said site or building has been vacated by construction
activity for a substantial amount of time. This site or building may contain
exposed foundation and footings, protruding metal reinforcing, incomplete
framing, construction waste, large holes, piles of construction material and
open excavations.
   BOARDED BUILDING: A building in which all or some of the utilities have been
disconnected and shut off. All windows and doors of this structure at the
ground level have been boarded to prevent unauthorized access.
   CLOSED TO OCCUPANCY: A building in which access is denied for any purpose
(living, working, sleeping, etc.). The only allowable access to this structure
is by the building owner or the owner's authorized agent.
   DILAPIDATED: A building or structure, or part of said building or structure,
in which access is denied due to unsafe, unsanitary, or hazardous conditions as
determined by the building official.
   EMERGENCY CONDITIONS: One or more conditions that exist within a building or
structure that constitutes an imminent danger to any person who enters or
occupies it.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS: Weeds that are listed as noxious by the Utah state extension
service.
   NUISANCE: A condition or conditions that:
      1.   Wrongfully annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health
or safety of the general public.
      2.   Offends the public decency.
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or causes a dangerous passage
for any pond, stream, canal, basin, ditch, public park, square, street, or
highway.
      4.   In any way, endangers the security of life to the general public, or
affects the rights of a community or neighborhood.
   SECURING: The boarding of openings to a building or structure to prevent
entrance pursuant to the provisions and standards of this section due to the
nonoccupancy of the building or structure.
   UNFIT: A building or structure which has been deemed hazardous to the health
or safety of the occupants or general public as a result of remodeling or
neglect on the part of the building's owner or owner's authorized agent as
determined by the building official.
   VACANT BUILDING: A building where any of the following exist: the utilities
have been disconnected, windows, doors and other fenestration are missing or
damaged significantly, building has not been occupied for more than sixty (60)
days, or any condition exists in the building or structure that is determined
to be unhealthy or hazardous by the building official. Unhealthy or hazardous
conditions include lack of utilities, vermin presence, structural defects,
electrical, plumbing defects, filth, etc.
   VACANT SITE: A site where any of the following exist: utilities have been
disconnected, no construction work has occurred for a period longer than sixty
(60) days, site has been unoccupied by the property owner or tenants for a
period longer than sixty (60) days, or any condition exists in the site that is
determined to be unhealthy or hazardous by the building official. Unhealthy or
hazardous conditions include lack of utilities, vermin presence, noxious weeds,
landscaping is not watered or maintained, excess garbage and filth on the site,
etc.
   VERMIN: Rats, mice, cockroaches, bedbugs, mosquitoes or any other pest as
determined by the city to be harmful to life.
   C.   Notice And Order To Secure Building Or Property:
      1.   If the city determines that a building/property needs securing,
based on dilapidated, vacant, unfit conditions of the building, or where a
building has been closed to occupancy, an abandoned or idle construction site
exists or because of nonmaintenance of property or because of vandalism due to
vacancy the city shall send a written notice and order by certified mail,
return receipt requested, and regular mail, to the property owner stating the
reason(s) why the building/property must be secured, the method for obtaining a
permit, the date it must be secured by, the method(s) for securing the
building/property, what will happen for failure to comply, and the appeal
process. The city shall also, on the same day, post a notice on the building/
property.
      2.   If, due to the existence of "emergency conditions", as defined in
this section and as identified by the city, it is not possible or practical to
give notice in advance, the city may nevertheless secure the building or
property without giving a prior notice and order to the owner or occupant, but
the city shall provide all required notices immediately following the securing
of the building and/or property.
   D.   Permit Required For Securing Building: It is unlawful to secure a
building except pursuant to a permit issued under this section.
   E.   Securing Without A Permit: Securing a building before obtaining a
permit pursuant to this section will require payment of double the initial
building securing application fee specified in the fee schedule.
   F.   Building Securing Permit Application: Permits for securing a building
must be applied for on an application provided by the city. The application
shall specify the following:
      1.   The address of the structure to be secured;
      2.   The type of building;
      3.   For residential structures, the number of dwelling units;
      4.   For nonresidential buildings, the square footage of the building and
the linear footage of all building faces at ground level and number of other
openings;
      5.   The name, address and telephone number and e-mail address of the
property owner or person authorized to act as an agent for the owner who lives
within forty (40) miles of the property;
      6.   Whether the property has an external water source to maintain
landscaping, if not a separate permit must be obtained to install exterior
water to maintain landscaping; and
      7.   A description of the current condition of the building and
landscaping of the property complete with photographs.
The applicant shall submit the completed application to the planning commission
for review fifteen (15) days prior to securing the building if possible before
the second Thursday of each month. The permit shall be processed and maintained
in the building inspection department.
   G.   Fees:
      1.   Application/inspection fee: As adopted in the fee schedule.
         a.   Any structure over three thousand (3,000) square feet will be
assessed a minimum fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
         b.   The applicant is responsible to reimburse the city for any and
all legal and inspection fees including over the one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) paid at the time of application for buildings over three thousand
(3,000) square feet.
      2.   A daily late fee, as adopted in the fee schedule, shall be assessed
by the city for each day the fee is delinquent.
      3.   If the property owner fails to pay the initial or late fees, the
city may take legal action to collect the fees.
   H.   Failure To Comply With Notice And Order:
      1.   If, within the time specified in the notice and order, the property
owner fails to comply with the notice and order sent pursuant to this section,
or fails to apply for a stay pursuant to this section, the city may cause the
building/property to be secured.
      2.   If the city determines that "emergency conditions" exist as defined
in this section, the city may secure the building/property pursuant to this
section.
   I.   Completion Of Securing: Securing the building or property must be
completed within ten (10) days of the issuance of a securing permit.
   J.   Posting Of Secured Or Closed To Occupancy Buildings: Whenever a
building is secured or closed to occupancy, the city shall be authorized to
install a placard mounted on the front facade of the building or property. The
placard shall state the building is secured or closed to occupancy and that it
is unlawful for any unauthorized person to enter the building. The placard
shall also provide phone numbers to call if people are seen on the property or
if the doors or windows are unsecured.
   K.   Stays Authorized: The owner of any property which should be secured
pursuant to this section, either voluntarily by the owner or pursuant to a
notice and order, may apply for a stay of the securing requirement.
   L.   Stay Process:
      1.   An owner seeking a stay shall state in writing that a stay is
requested and shall outline the reasons for the request.
      2.   The city shall promptly inspect the building/property and render a
determination, in writing.
      3.   If the city determines that the building/property is in such a
condition as to pose an imminent danger to occupancy or general public or is an
attractive nuisance which creates a significant risk or transient occupancy or
vandalism, the city shall deny the request for a stay.
      4.   If the city denies a stay request, the building owner shall obtain a
securing permit or demolition permit or submit an application for a building
permit within seven (7) days or the city may proceed to board the property
pursuant to this section.
      5.   If the city determines that a stay is appropriate, the city shall
certify in writing that a stay of up to three (3) months has been issued.
   M.   Actions During The Stay Period:
      1.   Within the stay period, the building owner shall obtain either a
securing permit pursuant to this section, a building permit to rehabilitate the
building or a demolition permit.
      2.   If the owner obtains a securing permit, the owner shall, at that
time, pay all the fees required pursuant to the fee schedule.
      3.   If the owner obtains a building permit for rehabilitation, the owner
shall not be required to pay the securing application fee but shall pay,
instead, the appropriate building permit fees.
      4.   If the owner obtains a demolition permit, the owner shall not be
required to pay the securing application fee but shall pay, instead, the
appropriate demolition permit fee.
   N.   Building Permits:
      1.   If an owner has obtained a stay pursuant to this section and obtains
a building permit for rehabilitation, work under the building permit must begin
within thirty (30) days of obtaining the permit and all work must be completed
within six (6) months of issuance of the building permit.
      2.   If work under the building permit is not begun or completed as
required, the city may revoke the building permit without further notice and
secure the building as necessary.
   O.   Method Of Securing Buildings: All buildings shall be secured in the
following manner:
      1.   All doors, except as allowed in subsection O4 of this section, and
windows of the structure on the first two (2) floors, and other openings easily
accessible from the ground, and openings with broken glass, shall be secured
either by erecting a single one-half inch (1/2") thick layer of exterior grade
plywood sheathing, or exterior grade wafer board, covering over all exterior
openings, overlapping the opening or every edge by three inches (3"), and
fastened with two and one-half inch (21/2") exterior grade screws along the
outside edges spaced every six inches (6") or by fastening with eightpenny
common nails spaced every six inches (6") on the outside edges;
      2.   Alternately, the openings may be secured by conventional wood frame
construction. The frames shall use wood studs of a size not less than two
inches by four inches (2" x 4") (nominal dimension) placed not more than twenty
four inches (24") apart on center. The frame stud shall have the four inch (4")
sides or the wide dimension perpendicular to the face of the wall. Each side of
the frame shall be covered with exterior grade plywood or exterior wafer board
sheathing or at least one-half inch (1/2") thickness or equivalent lumber
nailed or screwed over the opening by using eightpenny common nails or two and
one-half inch (21/2") exterior screws spaced every six inches (6") on the
outside edges and every twelve inches (12") along intermediate stud supports;
      3.   All coverings shall immediately be painted the same color as the
building or its trim; and
      4.   Exterior doors shall be secured by a solid wood core, or metal door
with a dead bolt type lock to preclude entry of unauthorized persons, or shall
be secured as described in subsection O1 or O2 of this section.
   P.   Methods Of Securing Property: Property to be secured pursuant to this
section shall be secured by removing all volunteer tree growth, removing or
mowing weed growth, leveling or removing piles of soil, sand and rock, removing
all construction waste, removing unused construction material, burying or
removing exposed footings and foundations, securing all partially constructed
buildings and erecting a six foot (6') high chainlink fence around the entire
perimeter of the property.
   Q.   Compliance Inspections By The City: The city will make periodic
inspection of all secured buildings and property to ensure that the buildings/
property is still secure and that all requirements of this section are complied
with.
   R.   Landscape Maintenance:
      1.   Existing landscaping and lawn on the property where a permit exists
shall be irrigated, routinely mowed, pruned and maintained as though the
building was occupied.
      2.   If the city determines that the landscaping on the property
surrounding a permitted secure building is not being maintained, the city shall
send a notice to the property owner and/or the property owner's agent,
requiring compliance with landscaping standards within seven (7) days.
      3.   If the city determines that the property owner has failed to comply
with the notice and order, the city may cause the work to be done by a
contractor employed by the city pursuant to section
4-2-7 of this chapter.
   S.   Exterior Maintenance:
      1.   Exterior walls and surfaces must be properly maintained. Severely
weathered, peeling or unpainted wood or unpainted or damaged roofing must be
replaced or repaired with similar materials and colors.
      2.   If the city determines that a boarded building is not being
maintained, the city shall send a notice to the property owner and/or the
property owner's agent requiring compliance with the building maintenance
standards within seven (7) days.
      3.   If the city determines that the property owner has failed to comply
with the notice and order, the city may cause the work to be done by a
contractor employed by the city pursuant to section
4-2-7 of this chapter.
   T.   Snow Removal:
      1.   Snow must be removed from public sidewalks surrounding the property
in the manner otherwise required by law.
      2.   If the city determines that sidewalks adjacent to a permitted secure
building are not having the snow removed as required by city ordinance the city
shall send a notice to the property owner and/or the property owner's agent,
requiring snow from the present snowfall to be removed and notifying the
property owner that if snow from a subsequent snowfall is not removed as
required, the city will contract for the removal and charge the property owner.
      3.   If the city determines that the property owner has failed to comply
with the notice and order, the city may cause snow, during the winter, to be
removed by a contractor employed by the city pursuant to section
4-2-7 of this chapter.
   U.   Existing Boarded Properties:
      1.   The city shall take reasonable actions to notify the owners of
buildings previously boarded or secured at the enactment hereof and shall
notify that a secured building permit is required. Owners of buildings boarded
as of the effective date hereof shall apply for a permit as mandated by the
provisions of this section.
      2.   In fairness, if any owner of a building which has already been
boarded/secured as of the effective date hereof and is maintained as per this
section, the owner shall receive a discount of fifty percent (50%) off the
application fee, if the owner applies for a permit according to the provisions
of this section. If the application and fee are not received according to the
provisions of this section a normal application fee is required.
   V.   Inspections Required: Whenever a property owner, manager or tenant
intends to clean, repair, renovate, reopen or reoccupy a building that has been
secured, the building is to be inspected and a permit must be issued by the
city prior to the building owner, manager or tenant initiating any of the above
actions. Any person conducting any work on a building that has been secured or
closed to occupancy must have a copy of the permit on the site at all times.
   W.   Legal Action Authorized: The city may take appropriate legal action to
collect all unpaid fees or bills provided by this section.
   X.   Appeal Process: Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city may
appeal the decision in compliance with title 2, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord.
2009-10, 12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009)
4-2-7: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Nuisance Inspector:
      1.   Established: There is hereby established the position of nuisance
inspector, whose duties it shall be to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Until another person is designated, the building inspector shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter. More than one person may be appointed to act as
nuisance inspector under this section. The nuisance inspector shall utilize any
appropriate resource to make a determination as to whether a nuisance exists.
(Ord. 2009-10, 12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009)
      2.   Duties: The nuisance inspector is authorized to:
         a.   Perform all functions necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
         b.   Inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings, structures, lots
or places if and when a complaint is received by the city. At the officer's
discretion, he may disclose the identity of the complainant whether or not the
complainant has asked to be anonymous.
      3.   Existence Of Objectional Condition: If he concludes there exists an
objectionable condition in violation of this chapter, the nuisance inspector
shall:
         a.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and descriptions
of the premises where such objects and conditions constituting a nuisance
exist.
         b.   If verbal contact can be made with the owners or occupants, make
a verbal request that the objectionable condition be corrected within seven (7)
days. As part of the verbal request, the owner or occupant shall be advised
that if he fails or neglects to correct the objectional condition as directed,
a written notice with the attendant right to a hearing before the city council
will then be served as provided in subsection A3c of this section. If the
owners or occupants expressly state that they will not comply with the verbal
request, the officer shall not be required to wait the stated seven (7) days
before serving the written notice. The officer may not extend the seven (7) day
period for compliance with his verbal request; at the expiration of the seven
(7) days, he shall serve the written notice and the time allowed to respond to
the written notice shall constitute an extension of the time on the verbal
request.
         c.   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such
premises, either personally or by mailing notice prepaid, addressed to the
owner and occupant at their last known post office addresses as disclosed by
the records of the county assessor, or as otherwise ascertained, requiring such
owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy and
remove the nuisance within such time as the nuisance inspector may designate;
provided, that any person notified pursuant to this subsection shall be given
at least ten (10), but not more than twenty (20) days, as determined by the
nuisance inspector following the date of service of such notice, to correct the
objectionable condition. The notice shall:
            (1)   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation
and generally describe the premises on which the violation exists.
            (2)   Inform the owner, occupant or other person that in the event
he disagrees with the determination of the nuisance inspector and does not wish
to comply with the provisions of the notice or that he objects to the factual
or legal basis for the notice, he may request in writing a hearing before the
city council at a time and place to be set by the city council. A written
application for a hearing shall state the time within which the person must
conform to the provisions of the notice.
            (3)   Inform the person that in the event he fails or neglects to
correct the objectionable condition, the city will correct the objectionable
condition and will collect the costs of so correcting the objectionable
condition by either a court action, in which case he will be assessed such
costs, together with reasonable attorney fees and court costs, or will charge
the cost of correcting the violation against the property as a tax.
         d.   In the event the owner or occupant makes such request for a
hearing, the city council shall set the time and place for hearing objections
and the city recorder shall notify the owner, occupant or other persons in
writing of the time and place at which they may appear and be heard. The
hearing shall be heard within less than five (5) days from the date of service
or mailing of the notice of hearing. (1982 Code § 10-351; amd. Ord. 2009-10,
12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009)
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   Informal Hearing; Written Decision: At the written request of an
owner, occupant or other person having an interest in property which is the
subject of a notice to remove or abate weeds, objectionable conditions or
objects from the property, the city council shall conduct an informal hearing
(which need not be reported), wherein such persons may present such evidence
and argument as is pertinent to the question of whether or not the removal or
abatement of the objects or conditions is properly within the purview of this
chapter. The city council shall also permit the presentation of evidence and
argument by the nuisance inspector and other interested parties. Thereafter,
within not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days, the city council
shall, over the signature of the mayor, or such other member of the city
council as it may designate, render its written decision, a copy of which shall
be mailed to or served upon the owner or any other person to whom the original
notice was given by the nuisance inspector.
      2.   Notice Of Decision; Abatement By Owner Or Occupant: In the event the
decision of the city council upholds the determination of the nuisance
inspector, the notice originally given by the nuisance inspector as above
provided shall be deemed to be sufficient to require the owner or occupant to
remove or abate the objectionable objects or conditions, and he shall have up
to ten (10) days from the date of notice of the decision within which to
conform thereto, unless additional time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, is
authorized by the nuisance inspector.
      3.   Time Period For Compliance: In the event that the decision of the
city council either overrules or modifies the determination of the nuisance
inspector, the written decision of the city council shall apprise the owner or
occupant of that fact and set forth the details and extent to which the owner
or occupant must make removal or other abatement of the objectionable objects
or conditions, if any. The owner or occupant shall be required to conform to
the decision of the city council within ten (10) days after service or mailing
of a copy of the decision, and the decision shall be deemed to be the modified
decision of the nuisance inspector, unless additional time is authorized by the
city council.
      4.   Filing Of Amended Notice: The nuisance inspector shall file an
amended notice and proof of service of notice and file the same in the office
of the county treasurer. (1982 Code § 10-352; amd. Ord. 2009-10, 12-3-2009,
eff. 12-3-2009)
   C.   Failure To Comply; Abatement By City: If any owner, occupant or other
person having an interest in land described in such notice of decision to whom
the notice was given shall fail or neglect to conform to the requirements
thereof relating to the eradication, destruction or removal of such weeds,
garbage, refuse, objects or structures, the nuisance inspector shall employ all
necessary assistance to cause such objectionable objects or conditions to be
removed or destroyed at the expense of the city. (1982 Code § 10-353; amd. Ord.
2009-10, 12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009)
   D.   Itemized Statement: The nuisance inspector shall prepare an itemized
statement of all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of nuisances,
and shall mail a copy thereof to the owner or occupant, or both, or to persons
having an interest in the property, demanding payment within twenty (20) days
of the date of mailing. The notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by
registered mail, addressed to the last known address of the property owner,
occupant or persons having an interest in the property. (1982 Code § 10-354;
amd. Ord. 2009-10, 12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009)
   E.   Failure To Make Payment: In the event the owner, occupant or person
having an interest in the property fails to make payment of the amount set
forth in the statement to the city treasurer within the twenty (20) days, the
nuisance inspector may either cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court
of law or may refer the matter to the county treasurer as provided in this
chapter. (1982 Code § 10-355; amd. Ord. 2009-10, 12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009)
   F.   Collection:
      1.   Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of destruction and
removal are pursued through the courts, the city shall sue for and receive
judgment for all of said expenses of destruction and removal, together with
reasonable attorney fees, interest and court costs, and shall execute upon such
judgment in the manner provided by law. (1982 Code § 10-356; amd. Ord. 2009-10,
12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009)
      2.   Inclusion In Tax Notice: In the event that the nuisance inspector
elects to refer the expenses of destruction or removal to the county treasurer
for inclusion in the tax notice of the property owner, he shall make in
triplicate an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the destruction
and removal of the same, and shall deliver three (3) copies of the statement to
the county treasurer within ten (10) days after the completion of the work of
destroying or removing such weeds, refuse, garbage, objects or structures.
Thereupon, the costs of the work shall be pursued by the county treasurer in
accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section
10-11-4, as amended, and the recalcitrant owner shall have such rights and
shall be subject to such powers as are thereby granted. (1982 Code § 10-357;
amd. Ord. 2009-10, 12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009)
   G.   Criminal Proceedings: The commencement of criminal proceedings for the
purpose of imposing penalties for violations of this chapter shall not be
conditioned upon prior issuance of a notice or the granting to the defendant an
opportunity to abate or remove the nuisance. The provisions of this chapter
relating to notice and abatement shall be deemed merely alternative and
additional methods of securing conformity to the provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code § 10-358; amd. Ord. 2009-10, 12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009)
4-2-8: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   Class C Misdemeanor: Any owner, occupant or person having an interest
in property subject to this chapter who shall fail to comply with the notice or
order given pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1982 Code § 10-359; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2009-10, 12-3-
2009, eff. 12-3-2009)
   B.   Criminal Proceedings: Compliance by any owner, occupant or person to
whom a notice has been given as provided in this chapter shall not be
admissible in any criminal proceeding brought pursuant to this section. (1982
Code § 10-359; amd. Ord. 2009-10, 12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: Standard Of Weed Control
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
"Weeds" shall include any vegetation commonly referred to as a weed or which
shall have been designated a noxious weed by the Utah commissioner of
agriculture. (1982 Code § 10-322)
4-3-2: STANDARD OF WEED CONTROL:
   A.   Conditions Constituting Nuisance: It is hereby declared that the above
stated weeds constitute a nuisance when they create a fire hazard, a source of
contamination or pollution of the water, air or property, a danger to health, a
breeding place or habitation for insects or rodents or other forms of life
deleterious to humans or are unsightly or deleterious to their surroundings or
are higher than twelve inches (12").
   B.   Historical Agricultural Area Properties: In historical agricultural
area properties, weeds and/or vegetation within thirty feet (30') of an
occupied residence and within fifty feet (50') of residential property lines
shall be regularly cut and/or maintained.
   C.   Removal: The cut weeds shall be removed from the premises within
seventy two (72) hours after cutting. (Ord. 2010-05, 8-5-2010, eff. 8-6-2010)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
It shall be an infraction and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for any person owning or occupying real property to allow
weeds to grow higher on such property than is permitted or not to remove from
such property any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse, unsightly or
deleterious objects after having been given notice as provided in section
4-2-7 of this title. (1982 Code § 3-321; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Collection Of Garbage
4-4-3: Service Charges
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COMMERCIAL GARBAGE: Refers to garbage produced in commercial establishments,
public or quasi-public institutions or establishments, including restaurants,
hotels, motels and similar establishments.
COMMUNITY WASTE: Lawn cuttings, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves and
trees and tree branches.
CONTAINER OR REGULATION CONTAINER: A type of garbage or trash container of
galvanized metal or other approved material and having a tight fitting lid or
properly and sufficiently treated weather resistant paper bag manufactured
specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, handling, storing, cooking or consumption
of food and food products.
REFUSE: All waste matter, except garbage, attending or resulting from the
occupancy of residences, apartments, hotels or other places of dwelling and
from the operation of a business. Refuse shall not be deemed to include
industrial waste or waste matter resulting from the construction, demolition or
repair of a building or other structure.
RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in places of private residence and dining
halls not open to the public. (1982 Code § 10-411; amd. 2003 Code)
4-4-2: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE:
   A.   The city or its agent shall collect, remove and dispose of all
residential, commercial garbage, the removal of which is not otherwise provided
for by the establishment or institution as herein provided. All garbage and
refuse shall be collected, removed and disposed of with such frequency and in
such manner as the city council may from time to time establish by regulation.
   B.   Except as otherwise expressly permitted by this chapter, no garbage or
refuse shall be moved or hauled away or transported upon the streets or public
ways of the city except by the city or its agent and except by authorized
persons hauling commercial garbage or refuse as hereinafter provided. It is
hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, except as permitted in this
chapter, to haul or remove garbage or refuse in the city.
   C.   Commercial establishments, public or quasi-public, institutions and
establishments creating commercial garbage, may remove commercial garbage
themselves or may employ the services of authorized contractors to remove
commercial garbage. Authorized garbage haulers must apply for and receive
permission to do so from the city recorder. Haulage of refuse must be done in
the manner, at such times, and in such vehicles as may be approved for such
purposes as the city council may from time to time by regulation provide.
   D.   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude persons from hauling
their own garbage, trash or community waste over the streets and alleys of the
city in vehicles and containers approved by a sanitary inspector or such other
personnel of the city as the city council may authorize.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as eliminating the charge
made for garbage service. (1982 Code § 10-412)
4-4-3: SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Specified:
      1.   There shall be charged to all residents and businesses a monthly
garbage collection fee in such amount as established from time to time by
resolution of the city council. (1982 Code § 10-413; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Charges shall apply to all residences and business establishments
whether or not they have also elected to haul their own garbage or employ the
services of authorized garbage haulers.
      3.   If a dwelling unit or a place of business has remained vacant for an
entire month, the owner or possessor of the site may make arrangements with the
city recorder for no garbage collection charges during the continued vacancy of
the premises.
      4.   The mayor, with the consent of the city council, may excuse needy
widows and elderly persons who are not reasonably capable of paying the monthly
charge for residential collection of garbage from the payment of the
residential rate for such period of time as may be deemed proper or necessary.
(1982 Code § 10-413)
   B.   Method Of Payment Of Service Charges: The service charge shall be
included on the monthly sewer bill and shall be paid upon billing. Should the
city have to commence legal action to collect any delinquent service charges,
it may recover costs, interest and a reasonable attorney fee. (1982 Code § 10-
414)
CHAPTER 5
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: General Prohibitions
4-5-3: Community Waste Disposal
4-5-4: Permissible Burning
4-5-5: Permit Required
4-5-6: Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AGRICULTURAL BURNING: Open burning in rural areas, essential to agricultural
and horticultural operations, including the growing of crops, the raising of
fowl, animals or bees, when conducted on the premises where produced, when:
   A.   The premises is five (5) or more contiguous acres within the legal
boundaries of Plain City; or
   B.   The premises earn more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) from
agricultural or horticultural sales; or
   C.   The premises is taxed as agricultural, not zoned as agricultural.
AIR CONTAMINANT: Any particulate matter or any gas, vapor, suspended solid or
any combination thereof, excluding steam and water vapors.
AIR CONTAMINANT SOURCE: Any and all sources of emissions of air contaminants
whether privately or publicly owned or operated.
AIR POLLUTION: The presence in the ambient air of one or more contaminants in
quantities, or characteristics and under conditions and circumstances, and of a
duration sufficient to cause or contribute to injury to human, plant, or animal
life or health or to property or which unreasonable interference with the
enjoyment of life or use of property, as determined by the standards, rules and
regulations adopted by the Utah air conservation committee.
APPROPRIATE AUTHORITY: The Plain City fire department is the agency to issue
permits for open burning under regulations of the state division of health and
other lawfully adopted ordinances, codes or regulations not in conflict
therewith.
ATMOSPHERE: The air that envelops or surrounds the earth and includes all
spaces outside of buildings, stacks or exterior ducts.
AUTHORIZED LOCAL AUTHORITY: The Plain City fire department is the agency to
issue permits for open burning under regulations of the state division of
health and other lawfully adopted ordinances, codes or regulations not in
conflict therewith.
BONFIRE: Any large fire built in the open air, which is not confined to a fire
ring, no larger thin eight feet (8') in diameter.
CLEARING INDEX: A number indicating the predicted rate of clearance of ground
level pollutants from a given area. This number is calculated by the national
weather service, from daily measurements of temperature lapse rates and wind
speeds and directions from ground level to ten thousand feet (10,000').
DEPARTMENT: The Plain City fire department.
EMISSION: The act of discharging, into the atmosphere, an air contaminant or
the effluent so discharged into the atmosphere.
GARBAGE: All putrescrible (liable to become putrid) animal and vegetable matter
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food,
including wastes attendant thereto.
HEAVY FUEL OIL: A petroleum product heavier than no. 2 diesel fuel.
HOUSEHOLD WASTE: Any solid or liquid material normally generated by a family in
a residence in the course of ordinary day to day living, including, but not
limited to, garbage, paper products, rags, leaves and garden trash.
NUISANCE: That conduct as defined by the Utah Code Annotated section 76-10-801,
as amended.
OPEN BURNING: Any burning of combustible materials where the products of
combustion are emitted into open air without passing through a chimney or
stack.
PERSON: Any individual, public or private corporation, partnership,
association, firm, trust or estate, the state or any department, institution,
bureau or agency thereof, any municipal corporation, county, city and county,
or other political subdivision of the state, or any other legal entity
whatsoever which is recognized by the law as being subject to rights and
duties.
RECREATIONAL FIRES: Campfires which can be safely confined to a fire ring no
larger than eight feet (8') in diameter. Anyone planning a fire larger than
this will be required to obtain a special permit. Bonfires, fires built to burn
Christmas trees, rally fires, and similar fires, are prohibited.
REFUSE: Any solid waste, including garbage and trash.
RUBBISH: Any useless waste or rejected matter.
SALVAGE OPERATION: Any business, trade or industry engaging in whole or part in
salvaging or reclaiming any product or material, including, but not limited to,
metals, chemicals, shipping containers or drums.
TRASH: Solids not considered to be highly flammable or explosive; including,
but not limited to, clothing, rags, leather, plastic, rubber, floor coverings,
excelsior, tree leaves, yard trimmings and other similar materials.
WASTE: All solid, liquid or gaseous material, including, but not limited to,
garbage, trash, household waste, construction or demolition debris, or other
refuse, including that resulting from the operation of any business,
agricultural operation, trade or industry. (Ord. 89-01, 4-13-1989; amd. 2003
Code)
4-5-2: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
No person shall burn any trash, garbage or other wastes, or shall conduct any
salvage operation by open burning except in conformity with the provisions of
sections
4-5-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 89-01, 4-13-1989)
4-5-3: COMMUNITY WASTE DISPOSAL:
No open burning shall be done at sites used for disposal of community trash,
garbage and other wastes, except as authorized through a variance or as
authorized for a specific period of time by the Utah air conservation committee
on the basis of justifiable circumstances reviewed and weighed in terms of
pollution effects and other relevant considerations at an appropriate hearing
following written application. (Ord. 89-01, 4-13-1989)
4-5-4: PERMISSIBLE BURNING:
   A.   Without Permit: When not prohibited by other laws or by other officials
having jurisdiction and provided that a nuisance is not created, the following
types of open burning are permissible without the necessity of securing a
permit:
      1.   In devices for the primary purpose of preparing food such as outdoor
grills and fireplaces.
      2.   Campfires and fires used solely for recreational purposes where such
are under the control of a responsible person.
      3.   In indoor fireplaces.
      4.   Properly operated industrial flare combustion of flammable gases.
      5.   Agricultural burning, including on premises orchard prunings, field
stubble, weeds and open burning to clear irrigation ditches; provided, that the
following conditions have been met:
         a.   The individual notifies the fire department of the approximate
time burning will occur and the location where the burning will be conducted;
         b.   Materials to be burned are thoroughly dry;
         c.   No trash, rubbish, waste, tires or heavy fuel oil are used to
start or included in the material to be burned;
         d.   Conducted only on premises where produced; (Ord. 89-01, 4-13-
1989)
         e.   When conducted under the general precautions against fire as
prescribed in applicable sections of the fire code; except that a permit will
not be required. (Ord. 89-01, 4-13-1989; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   With Permit; Exemptions: When not prohibited by other laws or by other
officials having jurisdiction and when a nuisance is not created, the following
types of open burning are permissible: 1) under the terms of individual permits
issued by authorized local authority under the "clearing index" system approved
and coordinated by the Utah state department of health; or 2) when specifically
exempted by the air conservation committee, following written application and
appropriate hearing. Application under 2) may be made by a political
subdivision of the state as well as by an individual citizen.
      1.   Open burning of tree cuttings and slash in forest areas where the
cuttings accrue from pulping, lumbering and similar operations, but excluding
waste from sawmill operations such as sawdust and scrap lumber.
      2.   Open burning of trees and brush within railroad right of ways;
provided, that dirt is removed from stumps before burning, and that tires,
heavy fuel oil or other materials which can cause severe air pollution are not
used to start fires or keep fires burning.
      3.   Open burning of solid or liquid fuels or structures for removal of
hazards or eyesores or for firefighter training purposes when conducted under
the direct control and supervision of the fire department.
      4.   Open burning of clippings, bushes, plants and prunings from trees
incident to property cleanup activities, provided the following conditions have
been met:
         a.   The local county fire marshal has established a thirty (30) day
period between March 30 and May 30 for such burning to occur and notified the
Utah air conservation committee executive secretary of the open burning period
prior to the commencement of the thirty (30) day period;
         b.   Such burning occurs during the period established by the local
county fire marshal;
         c.   Materials to be burned are thoroughly dry;
         d.   No trash, rubbish, waste, tires or heavy fuel oil are used to
start or included in the material to be burned; (Ord. 89-01, 4-13-1989)
         e.   When conducted under the general precautions against fire as
prescribed in the applicable sections of the fire code. (Ord. 89-01, 4-13-1989;
amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
The fire chief shall establish a procedure for issuance of burning permits
under the terms of this chapter. Said official shall also devise a method of
visual determination of any violations of this chapter and shall institute
appropriate enforcement procedures as necessary. (Ord. 89-01, 4-13-1989)
4-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Minimum bail payment for each and every cited violation of
this chapter shall be set to that which is stated in the current bail schedule,
except that bail payment may be reduced up to one-half (1/2) of the current
bail schedule when the violation is the first offense. In addition thereto,
such person may be enjoined from continuing such violations. Each day in which
such a violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 89-01, 4-
13-1989; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
NOISE
SECTION:
4-6-1: Prohibited Acts Generally
4-6-2: Prohibited Acts Specifically
4-6-3: Exceptions
4-6-4: Application For Special Permit For Relief From Noise Level Designated
4-6-5: Penalty
4-6-6: Additional Remedy; Injunction
4-6-1: PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY:
It is unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or
continued any excessive, unnecessary or unusual loud noise or any noise which
either creates a nuisance or annoyance, disturbs, injures or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the limits of Plain
City. (Ord. 2010-06, 8-5-2010, eff. 8-6-2010)
4-6-2: PROHIBITED ACTS SPECIFICALLY:
The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing or
unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but the enumeration in this
section shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   A.   Horns, Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling device
on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle, except as a danger warning;
the creation by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or
harsh sound; and the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary or
unreasonable period of time;
   B.   Radios, Electronic Audio And Media Devices, Musical Instruments: The
using, operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated in residential
areas any television, radio receiving set, musical instrument, electronic audio
and media devices or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing
of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of
neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for
convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or
chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary
listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, electronic audio
and media devices, machine or device between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at a distance of forty feet (40') from the building, structure or
vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this chapter;
   C.   Loudspeakers, Amplifiers And Other Sound Devices For Advertising: The
using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio
receiving set, musical instrument, electronic audio and media devices,
loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial
advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building,
structure or event without or in violation of a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be in violation of this chapter;
   D.   Dogs: The keeping of any dog(s) which by causing frequent or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the
vicinity;
   E.   Construction Or Repairing Of Buildings: The erection (including
excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any building shall be
prohibited between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six thirty o'clock
(6:30) A.M., local prevailing time, except in case of urgent necessity in the
interest of public health and safety, and then only with permit from the city;
   F.   Schools, Courts, Churches, Parks: The creation of any excessive noise
adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while the same
are in use, or which disturbs or unduly annoys individual groups in any park,
school, court or church;
   G.   Pile Drivers, Hammers, Electric Hoist: The operation between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. of any pile
driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or
other appliance, the use of which is usually attended by loud or unusual noise;
   H.   Power Lawn Mowers: The operation of any power mower, cultivator, or
like or related device (except snow blowers) in an area zoned residential
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30)
A.M. (Ord. 2010-06, 8-5-2010, eff. 8-6-2010)
4-6-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from noise level regulations:
   A.   Noises of safety signals, warning devices, and emergency pressure
relief valves;
   B.   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding
to an emergency;
   C.   Any other noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration
permitted by law for which a license or permit therefor has been granted by the
city;
   D.   Noises directly related to parades, celebrations, etc., associated with
state or nationally recognized holidays, or with the announcement of such
events via loudspeakers from vehicles on public streets;
   E.   Noises resulting from the operation of agriculture equipment or
activities;
   F.   Noises directly related to sporting events with the announcement of
such events via loudspeaker from sporting fields. (Ord. 2010-06, 8-5-2010, eff.
8-6-2010)
4-6-4: APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL PERMIT FOR RELIEF FROM NOISE LEVEL DESIGNATED:
   A.   Justification: Applications for a permit for relief from the noise
level designated in this chapter on the basis of undue hardship may be made to
the city council. Any permit granted by the council hereunder shall contain all
conditions upon which the permit has been granted and shall specify a
reasonable time that the permit shall be effective. The city council may grant
a relief as applied for if they find:
      1.   That additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or
modify the activity or operation to comply with this chapter; or
      2.   The activity, operation or noise source will be of temporary
duration and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with this chapter;
and
      3.   That no other reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
   B.   Conditions Possible: The city council, in granting such a special
permit, may prescribe any conditions or requirements they deem necessary to
minimize adverse effects upon the community or the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 2010-06, 8-5-2010, eff. 8-6-2010)
4-6-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a class B misdemeanor. Each occurrence when such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as a separate offense. (Ord. 2011-06, 3-3-2011, eff. 3-4-
2011)
4-6-6: ADDITIONAL REMEDY; INJUNCTION:
As an additional remedy, the operation or maintenance of any device,
instrument, vehicle or machinery in violation of any provisions hereof or which
causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of normal sensitiveness or
which endangers the comfort, repose, health or peace of residents in the area
shall be deemed, and is declared to be, a public nuisance and may be subject to
abatement as prescribed by law. (Ord. 2010-06, 8-5-2010, eff. 8-6-2010)
CHAPTER 7
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Recovery Of Expenses
4-7-3: Cost Recovery Procedure
4-7-4: Action To Recover Costs
4-7-5: Expenses Of Other Responding Entities
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the following meanings:
EXPENSES: All costs incurred for the response, containment and/or removal and
disposal of hazardous materials on initial remedial action. It includes, but is
not necessarily limited to, the actual labor costs of government and other
personnel including workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead, and any costs of equipment, equipment operation,
materials, disposal and any contract labor or materials.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY: A sudden and unexpected release of any substance
that, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, presents a direct and immediate threat to public
safety or the environment, and requires immediate action to mitigate the
threat. (Ord. 2015-04, 11-5-2015)
4-7-2: RECOVERY OF EXPENSES:
   A.   Those persons or entities whose negligent or intentional actions cause
or create, in whole or in part, a hazardous materials emergency within the
boundaries of the city are liable to the city for all costs and expenses
incurred in or arising from response to such hazardous materials emergency by
the city and any other political subdivision, agency or cooperative entity. The
city shall recover all such costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees, litigation expenses and court costs incurred in, related to or arising
out of, all cost recovery efforts and enforcement of the terms of this chapter.
   B.   All costs and expenses shall be billed at the current rate established
and approved by resolution of the executive committee of the interlocal
agreement for cooperative hazardous materials protection and services.
   C.   The payment of expenses under this section does not constitute an
admission of liability or negligence in any legal action for damages. (Ord.
2015-04, 11-5-2015)
4-7-3: COST RECOVERY PROCEDURE:
   A.   The city shall investigate and determine the person or entity
responsible for causing or creating the hazardous materials emergency and shall
notify the responsible party in writing of said determination of responsibility
and the amount of costs and expenses incurred by the city in responding to the
hazardous materials emergency.
   B.   The notice required by subsection A of this section shall specify that
the party determined to be responsible for causing or creating the hazardous
materials emergency has the right to appeal the decision determining
responsibility to the governing body of the city and shall specify a deadline
for filing the notice of appeal and the person or office in which it must be
filed. The deadline for filing the notice of appeal shall not be less than
fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice.
   C.   In the event a notice of appeal is filed, the hearing before the
governing body shall be an informal public hearing, and the parties shall not
be required to adhere to the Utah rules of civil procedure or evidence. The
appealing party and the city shall each be entitled to present evidence and
argument in support of their respective positions, in accordance with
procedures established at the hearing by the governing body.
   D.   The decision of the governing body shall be final. (Ord. 2015-04, 11-5-
2015)
4-7-4: ACTION TO RECOVER COSTS:
In the event the responsible party fails or refuses to pay all of the costs and
expenses determined by the city related to or arising out of the city's
response to the hazardous materials emergency within thirty (30) days after
assessment or after the governing body's decision on an appeal, the city may
initiate a legal action to recover such costs, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs. (Ord. 2015-04, 11-5-2015)
4-7-5: EXPENSES OF OTHER RESPONDING ENTITIES:
   A.   In the event that personnel and equipment from other political
subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities shall respond to assist with the
hazardous materials emergency, then the city shall recover costs and expenses
incurred by such other political subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities
as part of city's cost recovery efforts.
   B.   Upon recovery of costs and expenses from the responsible party, the
city is authorized to reimburse such other political subdivisions, agencies or
cooperative entities for their actual costs incurred in responding to the
hazardous materials emergency. (Ord. 2015-04, 11-5-2015)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Administration
5-1-3: Licensure And Regulatory Permits
5-1-4: Rabies Control
5-1-5: Nuisances; Prohibited Acts And Activities
5-1-6: Animal Care And Offenses
5-1-7: Impoundment
5-1-8: Enforcement
5-1-9: Penalty
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms set out in this section have the meaning designated when used in this
chapter unless otherwise indicated by the context:
ANIMAL: Any and all types of livestock, dogs and cats, and all other subhuman
creatures, both domestic and wild, male and female, singular and plural.
ANIMAL BOARDING ESTABLISHMENTS: Any establishment that takes in animals and
boards them for profit.
ANIMAL GROOMING PARLOR: Any establishment maintained for the purpose of
offering cosmetological services for animals at a profit.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility owned and operated by a governmental entity or any
animal welfare organization which is incorporated within the state of Utah for
the purpose of preventing cruelty to animals and used for the care and custody
of seized, stray, homeless, quarantined, abandoned or unwanted dogs, cats or
other domestic animals.
ANIMALS AT LARGE: An animal shall be considered to be "at large" when it is off
the owner's property and not under immediate control by means of a durable
restraint device capable of keeping the animal restrained; or an animal on the
property of the owner and not securely confined by a leash, building, fenced
area or appropriate transport device.
BITE: Any actual puncture, tear or abrasion of the skin inflicted by the teeth
of an animal.
CAT: Any age feline of the domestic type.
CATTERY: Land or building used in the keeping of four (4) or more cats, four
(4) months of age or older.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal that, according to the records of the animal
control department, or other city or county police agency and/or officer:
   A.   Has inflicted serious injury on a human being, with or without
provocation, on public or private property;
   B.   Has killed a domestic animal, with or without provocation, while off
the owner's property;
   C.   Has previously been found to be "potentially dangerous", the owner
having received notice of such, and it is witnessed and documented that the
animal aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the safety of humans or
domestic animals; or
   D.   The animal is found to be in violation of any of the restrictions
placed upon the animal, by the department of animal control, pertaining to a
"potentially dangerous animal", as designated in this chapter.
DOG: Any canis familiaris over four (4) months of age. Any canis familiaris
under the age of four (4) months is a puppy.
DOMESTICATED ANIMALS: Animals accustomed to living in or about the habitation
of man, including, but not limited to, cats, dogs, fowl, horses, swine, goats,
sheep, mules, donkeys, llamas and cattle.
ESTRAY: Any livestock found running at large, whose owner cannot be found after
a reasonable search.
GOVERNMENT WORKING DOG: A dog trained to assist officials of government
agencies in law enforcement exercises.
GUARD DOG: A working dog which must be kept in a fenced run or other suitable
enclosure during business hours, and on a leash or under absolute control while
working, so that it cannot come into contact with the public.
GUIDE DOG: A dog trained and certified by a nationally recognized training
establishment, to assist physically handicapped persons. Examples include, but
are not limited to, "hearing impaired", "mobility limited" and "seeing eye"
dogs.
KENNEL: Land or buildings used in the keeping of four (4) or more dogs, four
(4) months of age or older.
LIVESTOCK: Any normally domesticated animal that is not a cat or dog, such as:
cattle, sheep, goats, mules, burros, horses, geese, ducks, turkeys, llamas,
etc.
PET: A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility, including,
but not limited to, birds, cats, dogs, fish, hamsters, mice, and other animals
associated with man's environment.
PET SHOP: Any establishment containing cages or exhibition pens, not part of
the kennel or cattery, wherein dogs, cats, birds or other pets for sale are
kept or displayed.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal that, with or without provocation,
chases or approaches a person or domesticated animal upon the streets,
sidewalks or any public grounds, in a threatening or menacing fashion, or
apparent attitude of attack, or any animal with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack with or without provocation. In addition, a potentially
dangerous animal is any animal that, because of witnessed and documented
action, is believed capable of causing injury, or otherwise posing a threat to
the safety of humans or domestic animals.
QUARANTINE: The isolation of an animal in a substantial enclosure, so the
animal is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized persons.
RESTRAINT DEVICE: Any chain, leash, cord, rope or other device commonly used to
restrain an animal.
RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE: An establishment which offers boarding and/or riding
instruction of any horse, pony, donkey, mule or burro, or which offers such
animals for hire.
VICIOUS ANIMALS: Any animal which has:
   A.   Inflicted severe injury on a human being, with or without provocation,
on public or private property;
   B.   Has killed a domestic animal, with or without provocation, while off
the owner's property; or
   C.   Has been previously found to be dangerous, the owner having received
notice of such, and the animal again bites, attacks or endangers the safety of
humans or domestic animals, or it is witnessed and documented that the animal
is in violation of restrictions placed upon it as a potentially dangerous or
dangerous animal pursuant to subsections 5-1-5E and F of this chapter.
WILD ANIMAL: Any animal which is not commonly domesticated, or which is of a
wild or predatory nature, or any animal which, because of its size, growth
propensity, vicious nature or other characteristics, would constitute an
unreasonable danger to human life, health or property if not kept, maintained
or confined in a safe and secure manner. Those animals, however domesticated,
shall include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Alligators, crocodiles, caiman;
   B.   Bears (ursidae). All bears including grizzly bears, brown bears and
black bears;
   C.   Cat family (felidae). All except the commonly accepted domestic cats;
including bobcats, cheetahs, cougars, leopards, lions, lynx, panthers, mountain
lions, tigers and wildcats. Any cat crossbred with a wild animal, as described
herein, shall be considered to be wild;
   D.   Dog family (canidae). All dogs, with the exception of domesticated
dogs, including, but not limited to, wolf, fox, coyote and wild dingo. Any dog
crossbred with a wild animal, as described herein, shall be considered to be a
wild animal;
   E.   Porcupines;
   F.   Primates (all subhuman primates);
   G.   Raccoons (all varieties);
   H.   Skunks;
   I.   Venomous snakes or lizards;
   J.   Weasels. All weasels, martins, wolverines, ferrets, badgers, otters,
ermine, mink and mongoose, except that the possession of mink shall not be
prohibited when raised commercially for their pelts, in or upon a properly
constructed, legally operated ranch. (1982 Code § 13-201; amd. 2003 Code; Ord.
2008-13, 9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008)
5-1-2: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Animal Control Department Created: The city council has created the
animal care and control department, a subdepartment of the police department,
or any agency engaged to provide city police services, for the purpose of
resolving animal related disputes in the incorporated areas of the city. The
department shall participate in the disposing of the same. (1982 Code § 13-202;
amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Power And Authority Of Animal Control Officials: The animal control
director, and/or person employed by the department of animal control, as an
animal officer, shall take the oath of office and shall be vested with the
power and authority to enforce this chapter.
   C.   Right Of Entry For Enforcement: In the enforcement of this chapter, all
peace officers or animal control officials, are hereby authorized to enter onto
the open premises of any person or entity to take possession of any animal in
violation of this chapter and/or to enforce the same.
   D.   Interfering With Officers Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
knowingly and intentionally interfere with the director or any animal control
officer in the lawful discharge of his duties as prescribed in this chapter.
   E.   Animal Shelter Provided: The city council shall provide suitable
premises and facilities to be used as a city animal control shelter wherein
impounded animals can be adequately kept. The city shall also purchase and
supply adequate food for all impounded animals. (1982 Code § 13-202)
5-1-3: LICENSURE AND REGULATORY PERMITS:
   A.   Licensing And Registration Of Dogs:
      1.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor
or maintain a dog over the age of four (4) months, without registering and
obtaining a license for such dog from the animal control department or
authorized vendor. The registering and licensing period shall begin with the
calendar year and shall run for one year. A license application may be made
thirty (30) days prior to, and up to sixty (60) days after, the start of the
calendar year (January 1). All dogs brought into the city shall require
registering and licensing within thirty (30) days after they enter the city, or
within thirty (30) days after having reached the age of four (4) months.
Persons who fail to obtain a license, as required, within the time period
specified in this section will be subject to an additional licensing "late
fee". (1982 Code § 13-203; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Spay Or Neuter: No dog shall be licensed as spayed or neutered
without proof that the surgery has been performed.
      3.   Rabies Inoculation: Proof that the dog has a current rabies
inoculation shall be presented at the time the license is applied for. Proof
must be in writing and must include the licensed veterinarian who administered
the vaccine.
   B.   Exemptions For Licensing: The provisions of subsection A of this
section shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Altered And Owned By Senior Citizen: Persons sixty five (65) years
of age or older may obtain a dog license for a spayed or neutered dog for a
reduced fee. This shall be known as an "altered and owned by a senior citizen"
license.
      2.   Specified: No city license required for:
         a.   Licensed dogs, whose owners are nonresidents, temporarily (up to
30 days) within the city; provided, however, that licensed dogs whose owners
remain within the city longer than thirty (30) days may transfer current
license from another city to the city upon payment of a "transfer fee" and
proof of current rabies vaccination.
         b.   Individual dogs within a properly licensed kennel or other such
establishment.
         c.   Dogs temporarily in the possession of persons or organizations
for the purpose of training such dogs, to assist the handicapped when such dogs
are properly tagged and under the supervision of legitimate trainers.
         d.   Guide dogs, if such dogs are actually being used by physically
handicapped persons for the purpose of answering their needs.
         e.   Government working dogs, which are owned or maintained by such
agencies.
Not withstanding the foregoing, nothing in this section shall be construed so
as to exempt any dog from having a current rabies vaccination every two (2)
years.
   C.   Tag And Collar Required: Upon payment of the license fee, there shall
be issued to the owner, a metallic tag for each dog, so licensed. Every owner
shall be required to provide each dog with a collar to which the license tag
must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. In
the event a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the
animal control department, upon presentation of a receipt showing payment of
the license fee, and payment of a "duplicate license" fee. The license shall
not be transferable from one dog to another, and no refund shall be made on any
dog license for any reason whatsoever.
   D.   Removal Of Tag Unlawful: It shall be unlawful to deprive a registered
dog of its collar and/or its tag.
   E.   Kennel/Cattery License: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
or maintain a "kennel" or "cattery", as defined in section
5-1-1 of this chapter, without first obtaining a "kennel license" or "cattery
license" from the city, which license shall be in addition to all other
required business, zoning, inspections and permits as required by the city.
Animal owners, making application for a kennel or cattery license, shall first
seek approval from the planning commission for a conditional use permit (if
they do not already have such a permit) with final approval from the city
council. Kennel or cattery licenses shall also be valid for a one year period.
No kennel or cattery license shall be issued to any residence within any
neighborhood, with zoning regulations that prohibit the same. Licenses shall
not be transferable from one owner to another.
   F.   Number Of Cats And/Or Dogs Per Residence: No person or persons, at any
one residence, within the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall at any one time
own, harbor, license or maintain more than three (3) cats and/or three (3)
dogs, in any combination, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   G.   Conditional Use Permits: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
a kennel or cattery unless such person first obtains a conditional use permit
from the planning commission with final approval of the city council, which
permit shall be in addition to all other required licenses. All applications
for permits to operate such establishments shall be submitted, together with
the required permit fee, on a printed form, provided by the city recorder.
Before the permit is issued, approval shall be granted by the planning
commission; with final approval granted by the city council and a final
inspection being made by the building inspector prior to issuance of permit.
Establishments in existence prior to the effective date hereof, shall obtain
such conditional use permit within ninety (90) days of written notification of
the building inspector that such a permit is necessary. (1982 Code § 13-203)
   H.   Display Of Permit: A valid permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in each establishment, and said permit shall be considered as appurtenant
to the premises, and not transferable to another location. The permittee shall
notify the city recorder within thirty (30) days of any change of its
establishment, or operation which may affect the status of the permit. In the
event of a change in ownership of the establishment, the permittee shall notify
the city recorder immediately. Permits shall not be transferable from one owner
to another. (1982 Code § 13-203; amd. 2003 Code)
   I.   Renewal Of Permit: Any permit issued pursuant to this section, shall be
due and payable January 2 of each year. If not paid when due, a late fee of
fifty percent (50%) shall be added February 1. After March 1, cost will be
double the license fee amount.
   J.   Exemptions: Research facilities, where bona fide medical or related
research is being conducted, humane shelters and other animal establishments,
operated by state or local government, or which are licensed by federal law,
are excluded from the licensing requirements of this chapter.
   K.   Inspections: All establishments, with facilities for the maintaining of
animals, shall be subject to periodic inspections, and the inspector shall make
a report of such inspection with a copy to be filed with the city recorder and
the department of animal control.
   L.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Conditional Use Permit And/Or License:
      1.   Grounds: A permit may be suspended or revoked or a permit
application rejected on any one or more of the following grounds:
         a.   Falsification of facts in a permit application; or
         b.   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any other
regulation governing the establishment, including noise, building and zoning
ordinances, or maintaining or selling illegal species; or
         c.   Conviction of a charge of cruelty to animals.
      2.   Procedure: If an inspection of any facility operating with a
regulatory permit reveals a violation of this chapter, the inspector shall
notify the permit holder or operator of such violation by means of an
inspection report form, or other written notice. The notification shall:
         a.   Set forth the specific violation found.
         b.   Establish a specific and reasonable period of time for the
correction of the violation found.
         c.   State that any failure to comply with any notice issued, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, shall result in immediate
suspension of the permit.
         d.   State that an opportunity for an appeal from any notice of
inspection finding shall be provided, if a written request for hearing is filed
with the city recorder within five (5) days of the date of notice.
      3.   Notice: Upon request of a hearing, a minimum of five (5) days'
notice shall be given to the permittee advising him of the date and time of
such hearing, and listing the cause or causes for such suspension or
revocation.
      4.   Issuance Of New Permit: No new permit shall be issued to any person
whose permit has been previously revoked, except upon application for a new
permit, accompanied by the required application fee and unless or until all
requirements of this chapter have been met.
      5.   Applicability: Any permit granted under this chapter may be
suspended or revoked by the city council and/or animal control department with
approval from the city council for violations listed in this chapter.
   M.   Notice Served: Notice provided for under this chapter shall be deemed
to have been properly served when the original of the inspection report form or
other notice has been delivered, personally, to the permit holder or person in
charge; or such notice has been sent by certified mail to the last known
address of the permit or license holder. A copy of such notice shall be filed
with the records of the animal control department and with the city recorder's
office. (1982 Code § 13-203)
5-1-4: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Vaccination Requirements: All dogs, cats or other animals, susceptible
to rabies, for which a federally approved vaccine is available, shall be
vaccinated at three (3) months of age and again at fifteen (15) months of age,
by a licensed veterinarian or rabies clinic. Every dog shall be revaccinated
every twenty four (24) months and every cat revaccinated every twelve (12)
months, thereafter. Any unvaccinated dog or cat over three (3) months of age,
adopted or brought into the jurisdiction, must likewise be vaccinated
initially. Thereafter, valid protection must be maintained.
   B.   Exception For Transient Animals: The provisions of this chapter, with
respect to vaccination, shall not apply to any animal owned by a person
temporarily remaining within the jurisdiction for less than thirty (30) days.
Such animal shall be confined by restraint device and under supervision of the
owner. It is unlawful to bring any animal into the jurisdiction which does not
comply with the animal health laws and import regulations.
   C.   Vaccination Certification And Tags:
      1.   It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, when vaccinating any
animal for rabies, to complete a certificate of rabies vaccination, in
duplicate, which includes the following information:
         a.   Owner's name and address;
         b.   Description of the animal;
         c.   Date of vaccination;
         d.   Rabies vaccination tag number;
         e.   Type of vaccine administered;
         f.   Manufacturer's serial number of vaccine;
      2.   A copy of the certificate shall be distributed to the owner of the
animal, and original retained by the issuing veterinarian. The veterinarian and
the owner shall retain their copies of the certificate for the interval between
vaccinations specified in this chapter.
      3.   Additionally, a metal or durable plastic rabies vaccination tag,
serially numbered, shall be securely attached to the collar or harness of the
animal. An animal not wearing such a tag shall be deemed to be unvaccinated and
may be impounded and dealt with pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   Impoundment Of Animals Without Valid Rabies Vaccination Tags:
      1.   Any vaccinated animal impounded because of a lack of a rabies
vaccination tag may be reclaimed by its owner by furnishing proof of a rabies
vaccination and payment of all impoundment fees prior to release.
      2.   Any unvaccinated animal may be reclaimed prior to disposal by
payment of impound fees and by obtaining a rabies vaccination within seventy
two (72) hours of release.
      3.   Any animal not reclaimed within the prescribed period of time shall
be disposed of pursuant to provisions of section
5-1-7 of this chapter.
   E.   Rabid Animal Reports: Any person having knowledge of the whereabouts of
an animal known to have been exposed to or suspected of having rabies, or of an
animal or person bitten by such a suspect animal, shall notify the division of
animal control, or the state or county health department.
   F.   Quarantine And Disposition Of Biting Animals:
      1.   An animal that has rabies, or shows signs of having rabies, and
every animal bitten by another animal affected with rabies, or that has been
exposed to rabies, shall be reported by the owner as set forth above, and shall
immediately be confined in a secure place by the owner. The owner shall turn
over the animal to the animal control agents upon demand.
      2.   The owner of any animal of a species subject to rabies which has
been bitten by another animal known to be capable of harboring the rabies
virus, shall surrender the animal to an authorized official upon demand. Any
person authorized to enforce this chapter may enter upon private property to
seize the animal, if the owner refuses to surrender the animal.
      3.   Any animal of a species subject to rabies that bites a person or
animal or is suspected of having rabies, may be seized and quarantined for
observation for a period of not less than ten (10) days by the animal control
department. The owner of the animal shall bear the cost of confinement. The
animal shelter shall be the normal place for such quarantine, but other
arrangements, including confinement by the owner, may be made by the animal
control department, if the animal has current rabies vaccinations at the time
the bite is inflicted, or if there are other special circumstances justifying
an exception. A person who has custody of an animal under quarantine, shall
immediately notify the department of animal control if the animal shows any
signs of sickness or abnormal behavior, or if the animal escapes confinement.
It is unlawful for any person who has custody of a quarantined animal to fail
or refuse to allow a health or animal control officer to make an inspection or
examination during the period of quarantine. If the animal dies within ten (10)
days from the date of the bite, the person having custody shall immediately
notify the animal control department in order that the department may
immediately remove and deliver the head to the state health department. If at
the end of the ten (10) day period, an investigating officer of the department
of animal care and control examines the animal and finds no sign of rabies, the
animal may be released to the owner or, in the case of a stray, it shall be
disposed of as provided in section
5-1-7 of this chapter.
      4.   Unvaccinated Bitten Animals:
         a.   In the case of an unvaccinated animal species subject to rabies,
which is known to have been bitten by a known rabid animal, such bitten or
exposed animal shall be immediately destroyed.
         b.   If the owner is unwilling to destroy the bitten or exposed
animal, the animal shall be immediately isolated and quarantined for six (6)
months under veterinary supervision, the cost of such confinement to be paid in
advance by the owner. The animal shall be destroyed if the owner does not
comply herewith.
      5.   Vaccinated Bitten Animals:
         a.   If the bitten or exposed animal is currently vaccinated, as
prescribed herein, the animal shall be revaccinated within twenty four (24)
hours and quarantined for a period of thirty (30) days following vaccination;
or
         b.   If the animal is not revaccinated within twenty four (24) hours,
the animal shall be isolated and quarantined under veterinary supervision for
six (6) months.
         c.   The animal shall be destroyed if the owner does not comply with
subsection F5a or F5b of this section, regarding exposure by known rabid
animals.
      6.   Removal Of Quarantined Animal Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person to remove any such animal from the place of quarantine without
written permission of the police chief.
   G.   Bites; Duty To Report:
      1.   Any person having knowledge of any individual or animal having been
bitten by an animal of a species subject to rabies shall report the incident
immediately to the department of animal control.
      2.   The owner of an animal that bites a person and any person bitten by
an animal, shall report the bite to the department of animal control within
twenty four (24) hours of the bite, regardless of whether or not the biting
animal is of a species subject to rabies.
      3.   A physician or other medical personnel who renders professional
treatment to a person bitten by an animal, the bite of which might cause
rabies, shall report the fact that he has rendered professional treatment to
the department of animal control, within twenty four (24) hours of his first
professional attendance. He shall report the name, sex and address of the
person bitten, as well as the type and location of the bite. If known, he shall
give the name and address of the owner of the animal that inflicted the bite,
and any other facts that may assist the animal control department.
      4.   Any person treating an animal bitten, injured or mauled by another
animal, shall report the incident to the department of animal control. The
report shall contain the name and address of the owner of the wounded, injured
or bitten animal, the name and address of the owner and description of the
animal which caused the injury, and the location of the incident.
      5.   Any person not conforming with the requirements of this section
shall be in violation of this chapter. (1982 Code § 13-206)
5-1-5: NUISANCES; PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Nuisance Animals:
      1.   All persons having custody of animals shall exercise proper care and
control of his/her animals in order to prevent them from becoming a public
nuisance. Any owner or possessor of an animal, who keeps such animal contrary
to the provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and
subject to punishment under authority of this chapter.
      2.   An animal shall be deemed to be a public nuisance if the animal:
         a.   Causes damage to the property of anyone other than its owner.
         b.   Causes unreasonable odors.
         c.   Causes unsanitary conditions.
         d.   Barks, whines, howls or makes other disturbing noises.
         e.   Chases vehicles.
         f.   Is an animal which has been impounded for being at large, or its
owner or possessor has been convicted for the dog being at large on three (3)
separate occasions within a twelve (12) month period.
         g.   If an animal previously declared potentially dangerous or
dangerous is found in violation of restrictions placed on that dog by the
department of animal control.
   B.   Abatement Of Public Nuisance Animals:
      1.   When it reasonably appears to the animal control officer that any
animal is a public nuisance, as defined in this chapter, and that such nuisance
should be abated, the officer shall first attempt to obtain the written consent
of the animal's owner to abate the animal. "Abatement" shall be defined to
include either relocating or euthanizing the animal. If the animal owner's
consent cannot be readily obtained, the animal control officer may file with
the governing court a charge of maintenance of a public nuisance. The charge
shall set forth the facts, according to the best of the officer's information
and belief, indicating that the owner is maintaining a public nuisance, and the
nuisance should be abated. Until such time as the owner may be summoned to
appear before the court, the animal may be taken into impound by the department
of animal control, and held there pending a decision by the court. If the
charge is denied, a hearing will be set pursuant to the normal procedure of the
governing court. If the court finds that the charge of maintaining a public
nuisance has been proven, the court shall issue an order to the animal control
department setting out the method of abatement. Abatement by relocation shall
not be an option if the animal represents a continuing threat of serious harm,
such as in the case of a vicious dog. If relocation is ordered, the court may
set whatever conditions are necessary to guarantee that the said animal shall
not constitute a nuisance in the future.
      2.   In the event the court determines that, in fact, the animal is a
public nuisance, the owner shall pay the cost of all impoundment fees,
maintenance fees or any other fee that may incur as a result of such
impoundment.
   C.   Control And Fencing:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person owning or having the custody,
possession or control of any animal or a class of livestock to allow, either
negligently or with specific intent, the animal to run at large in or about a
public property or roadway, where such is not permitted by law, or to otherwise
permit the animal to be herded, pastured or to go upon the land of another
without permission.
      2.   All fencing of property, where a class of livestock are kept, shall
be of sufficient construction to prevent the escape of or injury to the animals
being confined within the fencing. The fencing shall be maintained so that no
part of such fence, absent extraordinary circumstances, may be broken, damaged
or in any way create the possibility of injury to the confined animal or to
allow the escape thereof.
      3.   Failure to properly confine any class of livestock shall constitute
a violation of this section.
   D.   Female Dogs In Heat: Any owner or person having charge, care, custody
or control of any female dog in heat shall, in addition to restraining such dog
from running at large, cause such dog to be constantly confined in a building
or secure enclosure so as to prevent it from attracting by scent or coming into
contact with other dogs and creating a nuisance, except for planned breeding.
   E.   Possession Of Potentially Dangerous Animal: Any person who owns or
maintains a potentially dangerous animal shall use all reasonable means at his
or her disposal to restrict a potentially dangerous animal from injuring any
other person or animal. The department of animal control may, at the discretion
of the director or his authorized agents, from time to time, impose specific
restrictions regarding the housing of potentially dangerous animals.
   F.   Possession Of Dangerous Animals:
      1.   Any dangerous animal, while on the owner's property, must be
securely confined indoors, or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or
structure, suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to
prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or structure for a dangerous animal
shall have secure sides and top and shall also provide protection from the
elements for the animal. The structure shall be such that the animal cannot
burrow or dig under the sides of the enclosure.
      2.   Dangerous animals, when outside the property enclosure, must be
under immediate control of a responsible adult by means of an adequate
"restraint device", as defined herein, and muzzled. The muzzle shall be made in
such a manner that it will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its
vision or respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
      3.   An animal control officer may take into immediate possession any
dangerous animal, if the officer determines that the animal is:
         a.   Not maintained in a proper enclosure;
         b.   Is outside of the dwelling of the owner or outside of a proper
enclosure and not under physical restraint of the person; or
         c.   If there are any further violations of any legal restrictions
previously placed on such animal by the animal control department as provided
in this chapter. (1982 Code § 13-204)
   G.   Failure To Properly Confine Potentially/Dangerous Animal: Any owner of
any potentially dangerous or dangerous animal, who wilfully allows it to go at
large or who fails to hold the same in the manner specified for such animal by
the department of animal control, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. (1982
Code § 13-204; amd. 2003 Code)
   H.   Animals At Large Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any "animal", as
defined herein, to be allowed, either negligently or with specific intent, to
run "at large", as defined in section
5-1-1 of this chapter. However, dogs may be at large while participating in
field trials and obedience classes organized and sanctioned by recognized dog
clubs, while assisting their owner or trainer in legal hunting or in herding of
livestock, while assisting a peace officer engaged in law enforcement duties,
or while being trained for the above purposes, so long as such dogs are under
direct and effective sound or gesture control, and within sight of such
individuals noted above to assure that they do not violate any other provisions
of this chapter.
   I.   Allowing Domestic Fowl To Trespass Prohibited: It is unlawful for the
owner of any domestic fowl, such as turkeys, ducks, geese, chickens, peacocks
or any other variety of fowl, to permit such fowl to trespass or go upon the
premises of another or to run at large on any public property or roadway. Fowl
kept and maintained by municipalities within the confines of public parks or
aviaries are exempt, excepting that they shall not be allowed on public
roadways.
   J.   Staking Animals Improperly On Unenclosed Premises: It is unlawful for
any person to chain, stake out or tether any animal on any unenclosed premises
in such a manner that the animal may go beyond the property line, unless such
person has permission of the owner of the affected property, or the person with
whom he shares joint tenancy. No animals are to be staked along public roadway
easements.
   K.   Keeping Wild Animals Prohibited; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any
person to sell, offer for sale, barter, give away, keep, own, harbor or
purchase any wild animal, as defined in the code of federal regulations title
50, Utah law or regulation, or in this chapter, or which is fierce, dangerous,
noxious or naturally inclined to do harm; provided, however, that an animal
shelter, zoological park, veterinary hospital, humane society shelter, public
laboratory, circus, sideshow, amusement show or facility for education or
scientific purposes may keep such animal if protective devices are provided and
adequate to prevent such animal from escaping or injuring the public. (1982
Code § 13-204)
5-1-6: ANIMAL CARE AND OFFENSES:
   A.   Cruelty To Animals: A person commits cruelty to animals when he:
      1.   Causes one animal or fowl to fight with another.
      2.   Intentionally or carelessly administers or applies any poisonous or
toxic drug or any material injurious to tissues or organs to any animal or
livestock, or procures or permits the same to be done, whether the animals be
his own property or that of another. This provision shall not be interpreted so
as to prohibit the use of poisonous substances for the control of vermin, in
furtherance of public health, when applied in such a manner as to reasonably
prohibit access to other animals.
      3.   By act or omission causes pain, suffering, terror or torment, or if
he injures, mutilates or causes disease or death to any animal or fowl.
      4.   Administers or applies or procures or permits the administration or
application of any trapping mechanism, other than a live capture trap, or
exposes such a trapping mechanism to animals or livestock with the intent to
harm or take the animal, whether the animal be his own property or that of
another. All set live capture traps shall be checked and emptied daily. This
provision shall not be interpreted so as to prohibit the use of trapping
mechanisms by those licensed with the state, and whose traps have owner
identification permanently affixed to them.
      5.   Neglects or fails to supply such animal with necessary and adequate
care, exercise, rest, food, drink, air, light, space, shelter and protection
from the elements.
      6.   Raises, trains, purchases or sells any animal or fowl for fighting,
or harbors fowl for fighting purposes, which has the comb clipped or the spur
altered or who is in possession of an artificial spur.
      7.   Is present as a spectator at any animal contest wherein one animal
or fowl is caused to fight with another, or rents any building, shed, room,
yard, ground or premises for the purpose of holding such a contest between
animals, or knowingly suffers or permits the use of any building, shed, room,
yard, ground or premises belonging to him or under his control for any of these
purposes.
      8.   Abandons an animal.
      9.   Performs or causes to be performed any of the following operations:
         a.   Inhumanely removes any portion of the beak of any bird, domestic
or wild.
         b.   Alters the gait or posture of an animal, by surgical, chemical,
mechanical or any other means, including soring.
         c.   Crops or cuts the ears, removes an animal's claws or sterilizes a
dog or cat and is not a licensed veterinarian.
         d.   Inhumanely docks the tail of an animal or removes an animal's
dewclaws.
      10.   Sells, purchases, owns or has custody of any animal or fowl that
has been dyed, painted or otherwise artificially colored.
      11.   Offers chicks, ducklings, goslings or other fowl for sale, raffles,
offers as a prize, a premium or an advertising device, or displays chicks,
ducklings, goslings or other fowl to the public without providing and operating
brooders or other heating devices that may be necessary to maintain the chicks,
ducklings, goslings or other fowl in good health, and without keeping adequate
food and water available to the birds at all times.
      12.   Carries or causes to be carried any animal in a manner harmful to
that animal. Suitable racks, cars, crates or cages in which such animals may
stand, move freely or lie down during transportation, or while awaiting
slaughter, must be provided.
      13.   Leaves any animal confined in a vehicle unattended in excessively
hot or cold weather.
      14.   Continuously drives or works a horse or other animal to a point of
observable strain, and denies the animal rest periods. Working animals shall be
offered water periodically.
      15.   Takes or kills any wild birds, or robs or destroys the nest, eggs
or young of any bird, in violation of the laws of the state.
      16.   Inhumanely hobbles livestock or other animals.
      17.   Leaves any livestock species used for draught, driving or riding
purposes on the street without protection from the weather and without food and
water.
      18.   Recklessly rides or drives any horse or other livestock species on
any street, highway or avenue within this jurisdiction.
      19.   Induces or encourages an animal to perform through the use of
chemical, mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which will cause
or is likely to cause physical injury or unnecessary suffering.
   B.   Defenses:
      1.   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the conduct
of the actor towards the animal was by a licensed veterinarian using an
accepted veterinary practice or directly related to a bona fide experimentation
for scientific research; provided, that if the animal is to be destroyed, the
manner employed will not be unnecessarily cruel, unless directly necessary to
the veterinary purpose or scientific research involved.
      2.   Any person may kill a dog while it is attacking, chasing or worrying
any domestic animal having a commercial value, or any species of hoofed
protected wildlife, while attacking domestic fowl, or while such dog is being
pursued thereafter.
      3.   Any dog making a vicious and unprovoked attack on any person, except
when the attack is in defense of the person, family or property of the dog's
owner, may be killed by any person while it is making such an attack.
   C.   Injuries And Communicable Diseases: No person shall knowingly harbor or
keep any animal with a serious injury, or afflicted with mange, ringworm,
distemper, parvo, kennel cough, or any other contagious disease, unless such
animal is being given adequate treatment to control or eliminate disease.
   D.   Charge Of Violator; Seizure Of Animals: It shall be the duty of a
person filing charges under this section to seize or arrange to be seized an
animal found in the keeping or custody of a person being charged, and which are
being used or will be used, as evidence in the case, resulting from such
charge. The person making said seizure shall cause such animals to be delivered
immediately to the department of animal control, or in such cases as may be
necessary, to a veterinarian for treatment. It shall be the duty of that
department to humanely hold such animals until further court order regarding
their disposal. The perpetrator of any such act shall be responsible for the
cost of impound, board and any medical expenses incurred during the holding
period of the animal.
   E.   Harboring Of Animals Prohibited; Duty To Notify: It is unlawful for any
person to harbor or keep within this jurisdiction any lost or strayed animal.
Whenever any animal shall be found which appears to be lost or strayed, it
shall be the duty of the finder to notify the animal shelter within seventy two
(72) hours. The animal control director may take the animal into protective
custody.
   F.   Places Prohibited To Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to
take or permit any animals, whether on a leash or in the arms of the owner, in
any establishment or place of business where food or food products are sold or
distributed, including, but not limited to, restaurants, grocery stores, meat
markets, and fruit and vegetable stores. This however, shall not apply to guide
dogs or to government working dogs while they are being used in law enforcement
exercises. (1982 Code § 13-207)
5-1-7: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Impoundment Authorized: The animal control department shall place all
animals which are taken into custody in a designated animal impound facility.
The following animals may be taken into custody and impounded as deemed
necessary:
      1.   Any animal being kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of
this chapter;
      2.   Any animal running at large, with any reasonable means used to
immobilize or capture such animal;
      3.   Any animal which is by this chapter required to be licensed and is
not licensed; an animal not wearing a tag shall be presumed to be unlicensed
for the purposes of this section;
      4.   Sick or injured animals whose owner requests impoundment and agrees
to pay a reasonable fee for services rendered;
      5.   Any abandoned, neglected animal, whose safety may be threatened,
should the animal not be readily placed into protective custody;
      6.   Animals which are not vaccinated for rabies in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter;
      7.   Any animal needing to be held for quarantine;
      8.   Any potentially dangerous or dangerous animal not properly confined
as required by subsections 5-1-5E and F of this chapter;
      9.   Any animal in the custody of any person or persons who are arrested
or otherwise detained by any police officer, in the event another responsible
party cannot be located by the owner.
   B.   Record Keeping Requirements: The impounding facility shall keep a
record of each animal impounded, which includes the following information:
      1.   Complete description of the animal, including any tag numbers;
      2.   The manner and date of impound;
      3.   The location of the pick up and identification number of the
impounding officer;
      4.   The manner and date of disposal;
      5.   The name and address of the redeemer or purchaser;
      6.   The name and address of any person relinquishing the animal;
      7.   All fees received;
      8.   All expenses accruing during impoundment.
   C.   Redemption Requirements:
      1.   The owner of an impounded animal or his authorized representative
may redeem such animal before disposition, provided he pays:
         a.   The impound fees;
         b.   The daily board charges;
         c.   The veterinary costs incurred during the impound period;
         d.   License fee, if applicable;
         e.   A transportation fee, if transportation of an impounded animal by
specialized equipment is required. "Specialized equipment" is that equipment,
other than the usual patrol and operation vehicles of animal control, which is
designed for specific purposes such as, but not limited to, livestock trailers
and carcass trailers. This fee shall be determined by the city council at a
level which approximates the cost of utilizing the specialized equipment in the
particular situation;
         f.   Any other expenses incurred to impound an animal in accordance
with state or local laws, including any reasonable restitution for property
damage created by the animal, or that occurs as a result of the impoundment.
      2.   The city council, at the recommendation of the director of animal
control, shall from time to time set impound fees and daily board charges for
the impounding of animals. Such fees shall take into account the type of animal
impounded.
   D.   Terms Of Impoundment; Destruction And Disposal Of Animals:
      1.   Animals shall be impounded for a minimum of three (3) working days
before further disposition. If an animal is licensed by the animal control
department, the impound shall be for five (5) working days. Reasonable effort
shall be made to notify the owner of any animal wearing a license or other
identification during that time. Notice shall be deemed given when sent to the
last known address of the listed owner. Any animal voluntarily relinquished to
the animal control facility by the owner thereof for destruction or other
disposition need not be kept for the minimum holding period before release or
other disposition, as herein provided.
      2.   All animals, except those quarantined or confined by court order, or
those subject to Utah Code Annotated section 4-25-4, which are held longer than
the minimum impound period, and all animals voluntarily relinquished to the
impound facility, may be destroyed or disposed of as the director of animal
control shall direct. Any healthy dog or cat may be sold in compliance with the
animal control adoption policy after payment of all applicable fees. Other
small animals, not included as livestock, may also be sold as determined by the
director.
      3.   Any licensed animal impounded and having or suspected of having
serious physical injury or contagious disease, requiring medical attention,
may, at the discretion of the animal control director, be released to the care
of a veterinarian with or without the consent of the owner.
      4.   When, in the judgement of the director of animal control, it is
determined that an animal should be destroyed for humane reasons or to protect
the public from imminent danger to persons or property, such animal may be
destroyed without regard to any time limitation otherwise established in this
chapter, and without court order.
      5.   The animal control director, or any of his agents, may destroy an
animal upon request of the owner without transporting the animal to city
facilities. An appropriate fee shall be charged the owner for the destruction
and any subsequent disposal of the carcass done by the department of animal
control.
   E.   Declaration And Disposal Of Vicious Animals:
      1.   If the animal control director, his assistants or authorized agents
determine, as a result of witnessed incident, that an animal is potentially
dangerous or dangerous, and find that the animal is in violation of such
restrictions as the department deems necessary for the safety of persons and/or
animals in the community, the department may declare the animal to be a vicious
animal. The department of animal control, including any officers or agents
thereof, are hereby authorized to immediately take possession of the vicious
animal and place the animal in a proper quarantine facility and thereafter
destroy the animal in an expeditious and humane manner, if the owner or
custodian, after having received notice of such, fails to make a request in
writing to the animal control department to delay such action.
      2.   It is determined that a proper holding period for any vicious animal
shall be three (3) working days. In the event the owner or custodian of the
vicious animal fails to request in writing a formal hearing within the three
(3) day holding period, the department of animal care and control is authorized
to destroy the vicious animal in a humane manner. The holding period shall be
extended to meet state and local regulations for quarantine for any animal
needing rabies evaluation.
      3.   Any owner or custodian who files a written request shall be afforded
a hearing before an independent board, selected by the department of animal
control, which may include a representative from the city wherein the vicious
dog resides, a representative from a local humane organization, other than city
animal control, and another person to be selected at random. It shall be the
responsibility of this board to determine whether the animal should be returned
to the owner or custodian or be destroyed.
      4.   At any hearing under this section, the animal control officer making
the declaration of a vicious animal shall appear and testify under oath
regarding the facts which led to the required findings. The animal control
officer shall be subject to cross examination of the owner, custodian or
authorized representative.
      5.   The animal control officer may also present any additional evidence
or sworn testimony supporting his or her decision. The owner or custodian of
the animal may likewise present evidence or sworn testimony in support of his
or her position. The hearing shall be informal but will be recorded.
      6.   The department of animal control shall not order the destruction of
the animal until a decision is rendered and the department of animal control is
notified of the decision in writing by the hearing board. (1982 Code § 13-205)
5-1-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Power And Authority Of Animal Control Officer: In the performance of
his duties, the animal control officer is hereby vested with the power and
authority of that office within the animal control department. Badges of
authority shall be issued by the animal control director to officers having
received and been sworn to the oath of office by the city recorder.
   B.   Investigation: Animal control officers and or peace officers may enter
upon privately owned land to investigate reports of vicious animals, cruelty
cases, rabies and other contagious animal disease, and to investigate
violations of and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Applicability Of Procedure For All Peace Officers: The provisions of
this chapter shall govern all peace officers in issuing citations for
violations of this chapter, but the procedure prescribed herein shall not
otherwise be exclusive of any other method prescribed by law for the arrest and
prosecution of a person for an offense of like grade. (1982 Code § 13-208)
5-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. If any violation be continued, each day's violation shall
be deemed a separate offense. (1982 Code § 13-208; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-2-2: Discharging Firearms
5-2-3: Prohibited Activities In Public Parks
5-2-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah criminal code (title 76), as amended, are hereby adopted
by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of
this chapter and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to
penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded hereunder. (2003 Code)
5-2-2: DISCHARGING FIREARMS:
   A.   1. It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any shotgun without
the permission from the owner or property manager, within six hundred feet
(600') of:
         a.   A house, dwelling or any other building.
         b.   Any structure in which a domestic animal is kept or fed,
including a barn, poultry yard, corral, feeding pen or stockyard.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to discharge any shotgun toward any public
street or roadway.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any dangerous weapon
or firearm within the limits of the city except:
      1.   Shotgun as noted above,
      2.   Archery for target practice only,
      3.   Slaughtering of livestock for home food production,
      4.   In self-defense,
      5.   To protect livestock or animals,
      6.   Or in the case of any peace officer or animal control officer in the
discharge of his duties.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any dangerous weapon
or firearm from an automobile or other vehicle or to discharge a dangerous
weapon or firearm from upon or across any highway.
   D.   It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person discharging any dangerous weapons or
firearms except as stated in subsections A and B of this section. (Ord. 2010-
04, 8-5-2010, eff. 8-6-2010)
5-2-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES IN PUBLIC PARKS:
   A.   Definition: A "public park" is defined as an area designated for public
gathering. The property is typically publicly owned. This definition shall
apply to privately owned parks if the owner desires these standards to apply.
   B.   Standards:
      1.   Beer And Alcohol: It shall be unlawful to consume or to have in
possession any beer or alcoholic beverage in a public park.
      2.   Smoking: It shall be unlawful to smoke in a public park.
         a.   Exception: A person is exempt from the restrictions of this
standard if the person is smoking or using smoking materials to exercise
protected first amendment activities, such as smoking or use of materials for
bona fide religious purposes.
      3.   Motorized Vehicles: Any unauthorized motorized vehicle is not
allowed in any place of the park other than designated parking areas.
      4.   Unauthorized Activity After Hours: Any unauthorized activity in the
public park during the hours from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. is not allowed.
   C.   Penalty: An offense under this section is designated as a class C
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2017-06, 3-16-2017, eff. 3-16-2017)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew
5-3-2: Daytime Loitering Of Juveniles On School Days
5-3-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Established: No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be or
remain upon any of the streets, alleys or public places or vacant lots at night
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
following, unless such person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other
person having legal custody of such minor person, or unless the employment or
lawful business of such minor makes it necessary to be upon the streets, alleys
or public places between such specified hours, in which event such minor person
shall obtain a permit from the sheriff's office to be upon the streets, alleys
or public places during such hours. On any night when school, civil or church
functions are taking place, the hours of curfew shall be ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. following, in order to provide adequate time to
attend such functions provided for minor persons. Where a permit is required
from the sheriff's office under this subsection, such permit shall be kept upon
the person and it shall be unlawful to be upon the streets, alleys or public
places within such curfew hours without such permit. (1982 Code § 13-312; amd.
2003 Code)
   B.   Responsibility Of Parents, Guardians: No person, guardian or other
person having legal charge or custody of any person under eighteen (18) years
of age shall allow or permit any such person or child, ward or other person
under such age, while in such legal custody, to go or be in or upon any of the
streets, alleys or public places when such going or being in or upon such
streets, alleys or public places would be in violation by such minor of any
provision of subsection A of this section. (1982 Code § 13-313)
5-3-2: DAYTIME LOITERING OF JUVENILES ON SCHOOL DAYS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
    ADULT: Any person eighteen (18) years of age and older.
   EMERGENCY: Includes, but is not limited to, fire, natural disaster,
automobile accident or requirement for immediate medical care for another
person.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business to which the public is
invited, including, but not limited to, any place of amusement or
entertainment.
   JUVENILE: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is the natural or adoptive parent of a person. "Parent"
includes a court appointed guardian or other person eighteen (18) years of age
or older authorized by the parent, by a court order or by a court appointed
guardian to have the care and custody of the person.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, office buildings, transport facilities,
shopping centers and malls.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   It is unlawful for any juvenile who is subject to compulsory
education to loiter, idle, wander or be in or upon the public streets,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public
places, public buildings or the premises of any establishment, vacant lots, any
dwelling not their current residence or any unsupervised place between the
hours of eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and two o'clock (2:00) P.M. on any
day when school is in session for that juvenile.
      2.   It is unlawful for any juvenile who is subject to a compulsory
alternative education program to loiter, idle, wander or be in or upon the
public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public
grounds, public places, public buildings or the premises of any establishment,
vacant lots, any dwelling not their current residence or any unsupervised place
between the hours of eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and two o'clock (2:00)
P.M. on any day when that juvenile would otherwise be required to attend a
regular or alternative compulsory education school.
      3.   It is unlawful for the parent of any juvenile to knowingly permit or
by insufficient control allow the juvenile to be in violation of subsection B1
or B2 of this section.
   C.   Defenses: It is a defense to prosecution under this section:
      1.   When the juvenile is accompanied by a parent;
      2.   When the juvenile is on an emergency errand directed by a parent;
      3.   When the juvenile is going to or coming directly from their place of
school approved employment;
      4.   When the juvenile is going to or coming directly from a medical
appointment;
      5.   When the juvenile has permission to leave the school campus for
lunch or a school sponsored activity or has in their possession a valid, school
issued, off campus permit;
      6.   When the juvenile is going to or coming from a compulsory
alternative education program activity;
      7.   When the juvenile is attending, or without any detour or stop, going
to or returning from, an official school, religious, government sponsored, or
other recreational activity supervised by adults and/or sponsored by the city,
or a civic organization, the school district, religious or other government
organization.
   D.   Enforcement Procedure:
      1.   Upon any violation of subsection B1 or B2 of this section, a peace
officer may issue a citation to the juvenile and may transport the juvenile
home or to the school from which the juvenile is absent. If cited, the juvenile
and a parent shall appear in court as directed in the citation. The parent
shall be advised of the fact that the juvenile was cited for a violation of
this section. The parents shall be warned of their responsibility and liability
as the juvenile's parents.
      2.   If a parent has been previously warned as set forth in this section,
upon a parent's first violation of subsection B3 of this section, a peace
officer may issue a citation for an infraction to the parent to appear in
court.
      3.   When a parent has previously been issued a citation for an
infraction as set forth in subsection D2 of this section, upon any subsequent
violation by a parent of subsection B3 of this section, a peace officer may
issue a citation for a class C misdemeanor to the parent of the juvenile to
appear in court.
   E.   Penalty:
      1.   A juvenile convicted of a first time violation of subsection B1 of
this section may be placed on probation with the school for a period of up to
ninety (90) days. If the juvenile does not have another unexcused absence or
violation of subsection B1 of this section, the case may be dismissed by the
court upon a recommendation from the school that the juvenile has complied.
      2.   A juvenile convicted of a violation of subsection B1 or B2 of this
section is guilty of an infraction. In addition to any fine, the court shall
review whether there is appropriate community service. The court shall fine the
juvenile at least thirty five dollars ($35.00).
      3.   a. A parent convicted of a violation of subsection B3 of this
section shall be guilty of an infraction if the parent had been previously
given formal warning of the requirements of this section previously; or
         b.   A class C misdemeanor if the parent had been previously convicted
of a violation of subsection B3 of this section. (Ord. 99-05, 11-18-1999)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted
6-1-2: Speed Regulations
6-1-3: Parking Regulations
6-1-4: Use Of Dynamic Braking Devices Prohibited
6-1-5: Penalty
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah Traffic Code (title 41), as amended, are hereby adopted by
the City. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
chapter, and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this chapter if proceeded hereunder. (2003 Code)
6-1-2: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Streets With Signs: When appropriate street signs giving notice of the
maximum permitted speed thereon are erected, the prima facie speed limits
designated upon said signs shall apply to the appropriate streets or portions
of streets so posted.
   B.   Streets Not Posted: Unless otherwise provided in this chapter or in any
other ordinance of the City, the prima facie speed limits on the streets of the
City shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour. (1982 Code § 11-323)
6-1-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Signs; Erection: The City Council may authorize or direct any person
employed by the City to erect or install any sign or traffic control device
required to enforce the provisions of this section.
   B.   Parking In Violation Prohibited: It shall be an infraction for any
person, except physicians on emergency calls or designated emergency vehicles
when properly marked or posted, to park any motor vehicle on any street in
violation of posted restrictions for that street or except when necessary to
avoid interference with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
policeman or traffic control device.
   C.   Parking Or Blocking Streets Or Highways: In addition to the parking
provisions contained in the Utah Traffic Code, as adopted by this City, it
shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway in such a
manner as to obstruct the free passage of vehicular or pedestrian traffic
thereon.
      2.   Willfully remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway
in such manner for more than one minute after being requested to move by any
police officer.
      3.   Willfully remain on such street or highway in such manner as to
obstruct the free passage of any person or vehicle into or out of any property
abutting upon the street or highway or any property having access to such
street or highway.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a motor vehicle, trailer or
boat, to park the vehicle for sale on a public street or highway for more than
seventy two (72) hours.
      5.   Any vehicle, trailer, farm equipment or boat parked in violation of
this subsection is declared to be a public nuisance. If a notice of violation
has been placed upon such vehicle, trailer, farm equipment or boat and it is
not removed within twelve (12) hours thereafter, or if two (2) or more notices
of violation have been placed on the same vehicle, trailer, farm equipment or
boat within the last thirty (30) days, the vehicle, trailer, farm equipment or
boat shall be impounded as a nuisance. The vehicle, trailer, farm equipment or
boat shall be released to the owner or responsible party only after the law
enforcement agency of the City has received a receipt for the same
acknowledging responsibility of that person for the item being unlawfully
parked.
      6.   A separate violation occurs each day a vehicle, trailer, farm
equipment or boat is parked contrary to the provisions of this subsection.
   D.   Specific Prohibited Parking; Permit:
      1.   Recreational Type Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to
park or leave standing at any time, on any public road, street, alley or City
property any unattached trailer of any type whether for the occupancy of
people, storage of items, or for towing purposes, and whether the same be
loaded or not, any boat on an unattached trailer or otherwise, or camper not
mounted on a vehicle, any motor home or mini-motor home of any length, and any
combination of a pulling or towing vehicle with an attached trailer whether
loaded or not; provided, however, that it shall be lawful to park such a
combination or a motor home that is being loaded or is ready for departure for
a period not to exceed thirty six (36) hours.
      2.   Gross Vehicle Weight: Except as provided above, as regards
recreational vehicles, it is further unlawful and an infraction to park in or
on any such area, City street, or public parking facility at any time, any
vehicle or motor vehicle having a registered gross weight capability of twenty
six thousand (26,000) pounds or more. An exception can be made for unloading
and loading vehicles, not to exceed twelve (12) hours.
      3.   Time Limited: It shall further be unlawful for any person to park or
leave standing on any public road, street, alley or City property any motor
vehicle for forty eight (48) or more consecutive hours, and any vehicle so
parked or left standing may be impounded or removed by the law enforcement
authority. For purposes of impoundment and removal, the law enforcement
authority may, after making a reasonable effort to locate the owner, impound
and remove any motor vehicle which has been unmoved for forty eight (48)
consecutive hours. The cost of impoundment and removal shall be charged to the
owner or any person who claims the impounded motor vehicle.
      4.   Special Permit: For good cause shown and upon application to and
receipt of a special permit from the Police Department, a person may receive a
temporary permit to park a vehicle otherwise prohibited for a period of three
(3) days and nights.
      5.   Parking Prohibited:
         a.   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle or permit such vehicle to
remain parked upon any street, part of a street or roadway, when signs or
traffic markings are erected by the City which give notice that parking is
prohibited.
         b.   When signs or traffic markings are erected or placed by direction
of the City, no person shall park a vehicle or permit said vehicle to remain
standing during the hours and days specified by such signs and markings upon
any street, parts of a street, or roadway.
   E.   Loading Zone: When so posted, it shall be unlawful for the driver of a
passenger vehicle to stand or park such vehicle for a period of time longer
than is permitted by the posted sign for the loading or unloading of
passengers, or for the driver to stand or park any freight carrying motor
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary to load, unload and
deliver materials in any place designated as a loading zone and marked as such.
   F.   Alleys: No person shall park a motor vehicle within an alley in such
manner or under such conditions as to leave less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway available for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position
as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   G.   Fire Hydrant: It shall be unlawful to stand or park a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger within
five feet (5') of a fire hydrant.
   H.   Snow Removal:
      1.   Prohibited: From November 1st of each year to March 15th of the
following year, the following regulations shall apply:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or has possession,
custody or control of any vehicle, farm equipment or other object to park or
place such item or property upon or in any street of the City with or without
curb between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
         b.   No person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any
vehicle, farm equipment or other objects shall park or place such items or
property upon any street of the City with or without curb when the removal of
snow from the streets is necessary, apparent or imminent and forty eight (48)
hours after a snow event.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of said items
listed in subsection H1b of this section to allow such items to remain standing
upon any public street for longer than forty eight (48) hours after said items
have become snowbound due to snowplows plowing around said items. Such items
shall be presumed to be abandoned. Abandoned items shall be subject to removal
and impounded.
         d.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, this subsection shall not apply to
physicians or other authorized emergency personnel acting in the course and
scope of their duties.
         e.   Any vehicle, item or property parked in violation of this
subsection is hereby declared a public nuisance.
         f.   Any person violating any provision of this section is guilty of
an infraction and upon conviction shall be punished according to the law.
      2.   Impounding Vehicle: The police or snow removal crews are hereby
authorized to order the impounding of any vehicle that is parked in violation
of this subsection. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-3-2019, eff. 1-4-2019; amd. Ord. 2021-14,
10-21-2021)
6-1-4: USE OF DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   "Dynamic braking device" on commercial vehicles (commonly referred to
as a Jacob or Jacob's brake, engine brake, or compression brake), means a
device used primarily on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an
internal combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of braking
without the use of wheel brakes.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle with a dynamic
braking device engaged, except for the aversion of imminent danger, within the
Plain City limits. Firetrucks and other emergency vehicles shall be exempt from
the prohibitions of this section. (Ord. 2023-08, 6-1-2023)
6-1-5: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided herein, violation of any part of this chapter shall
be an infraction. (Ord. 2003-09, 11-6-2003, eff. 11-6-2003; amd. Ord. 2021-14,
10-21-2021; Ord. 2023-08, 6-1-2023)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE WEIGHT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Vehicle Weight Standards
6-2-2: Penalty
6-2-1: VEHICLE WEIGHT STANDARDS:
   A.   There shall be no vehicles over twenty thousand (20,000) pounds allowed
on the following roadways in Plain City:
      1.   On 2800 W. from North Plain City Road to the Farr West City line,
and
      2.   On 3600 W. from 2455 N. to 1975 N.
   B.   An exception to the restrictions in this chapter shall apply to any
vehicle making local deliveries to residents of Plain City, such as appliance
deliveries or construction or repair related vehicles working within Plain
City. A further exception shall be made for any vehicles making repairs on the
road or conducting maintenance, and for farm equipment. (Ord. 2016-10, 11-17-
2016, eff. 11-17-2016)
6-2-2: PENALTY:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided herein, violation of any part of this chapter
shall be a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 2016-10, 11-17-2016, eff. 11-17-2016)
CHAPTER 3
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES ON PLAIN CITY STREETS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Vehicle Operation
6-3-2: Age Limitations
6-3-3: Protective Headgear Requirements
6-3-4: Speed And Other Regulations
6-3-5: State Highway 134
6-3-6: Penalties And Fines
6-3-1: VEHICLE OPERATION:  
   A.   Currently registered off highway vehicles, (OHVs) meaning ATVs and
UTVs, or side-by-sides, as they are called, may be operated on all city
streets, and the same are hereby designated as open to such off-highway vehicle
use.
   B.   The headlights on the off-highway vehicle will be on at all times when
operating on Plain City streets.
   C.   Prior to using any off-highway vehicles under this chapter, the owner
must obtain a sticker from the city office that is valid for five (5) years and
shall cost up to ten dollars ($10.00), indicating:
      1.   An affidavit signed by the owner that the stock muffler hasn't been
altered and verification that a map has been provided to the owner indicating
limitations on off highway use.
   D.   Operation of two-stroke vehicles are prohibited on Plain City streets.
   E.   An off-road motorcycle (dirt bike), is not considered an ATV or UTV,
and therefore not legal for operation on Plain City streets.  (Ord. 2020-06, 4-
16-2020; amd. Ord. 2021-15, 10-21-2021; Ord. 2023-09, 7-20-2023)
6-3-2: AGE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   A person must be a minimum of sixteen (16) years of age or older, and
possess a valid driver's license, which must be in the person's immediate
possession to operate an off-highway vehicle under this chapter.
   B.   No school age person whether enrolled in a public school, home school
or charter school may operate an off-highway vehicle during regular school
hours.
   C.   A parks and recreation safety certificate is not valid for operation of
an off-highway vehicle on Plain City streets.
   D.   The requirements of this section do not apply to off highway vehicles
used as implements of animal husbandry. (Ord. 2020-06, 4-16-2020)
6-3-3: PROTECTIVE HEADGEAR REQUIREMENTS:
A person under eighteen (18) years of age will wear a properly fitted and
fastened U.S. Department of Transportation safety rated helmet unless the off-
highway vehicle has a seatbelt and a roll cage. (Ord. 2020-06, 4-16-2020)
6-3-4: SPEED AND OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Off highway vehicles will be operated in accordance with all applicable
laws and regulations including posted traffic and speed limit requirements.
Those applicable laws and their associated penalties and fines apply to this
chapter.
   B.   An off-highway vehicle will not be operated on any street with a posted
speed limit higher than forty (40) miles per hour.
   C.   No liability shall be imposed on the city relating to the designation
or maintenance of any street open to off highway use. (Ord. 2020-06, 4-16-2020)
6-3-5: STATE HIGHWAY 134:
   A.   State Highway 134 is 2600 N., entering Plain City on the east side of
the city. At the stop sign on 4200 W., it turns south to 2575 N., then W. on
2575 N. to 4350 W. Going S. on 4350 W. to the stop sign on 2200 N. The highway
then turns right and goes W. to 4650 W., turns S., past Freemont High School
and follows 4700 W. out of Plain City.
   B.   Unless the off highway vehicle is street legal, it is unlawful to
operate on State Highway 134, except when crossing the highway, in which case,
the operator must come to a complete stop before crossing, yield right-of-way
to oncoming traffic, and cross at a right angle pursuant to Utah State Code 41-
22-10.3. (Ord. 2020-06, 4-16-2020)
6-3-6: PENALTY AND FINES:  
An offense under this chapter, not covered by any other state statute, is
designated as an infraction and punishable with a fine in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 2020-06, 4-16-2020)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Public Works Department
7-1-2: Removal Of Snow
7-1-3: Obstructions In Streets
7-1-4: Openings In Streets; Doors Obstructing
7-1-5: Discharge Of Water
7-1-6: Sidewalk Regulations
7-1-1: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created a public works department, which
shall have general supervision of streets, sidewalks, bridges and other public
ways.
   B.   Director: The department shall be under the direction and control of
the public works director. (1982 Code § 11-311; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Powers And Duties: The department shall:
      1.   Have charge of the construction, maintenance and repair of streets,
sidewalks, bridges, curbs, gutters, culverts, drains, waterways and other
public ways. It shall have control of all waters flowing on the streets,
sidewalks and public ways, whether originating from storm, flood, drainage or
irrigation waters.
      2.   Keep a record of and promptly investigate all complaints of
defective streets, culverts, drains, ditches, sidewalks and other public ways
and, when proper, repair, replace or take such action as deemed best, and shall
record the action taken on each complaint.
      3.   Enforce the provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances
relating to the maintenance and use of streets, culverts, drains, ditches,
waterways, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and other public ways.
      4.   Repair, or cause to be repaired, all defects coming to the
department's attention and take reasonable precautions to protect the public
from injuries due to such defects pending their repair. (1982 Code § 11-312;
amd. Ord. 2025-07, 6-19-2025)
7-1-2: REMOVAL OF SNOW:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, lessor or agent of any
property abutting on a paved sidewalk, to fail to remove or have removed from
such paved sidewalk all hail, snow or sleet thereon within forty eight (48)
hours after such snow, hail or sleet has fallen.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person removing snow from the sidewalk, to
deposit snow, dirt, leaves or any other material in the gutter or in the street
so as to clog or prevent the free flow of water therein.
   C.   Any person violating any provision of this section is guilty of an
infraction and upon conviction shall be punished according to the law. (Ord.
2017-02, 1-19-2017, eff. 1-19-2017)
7-1-3: OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to place or permit to be placed upon or in the sidewalk, parking area,
gutter or on the city right of way:
   A.   Refuse: Any broken wares, glass, filth, rubbish, sweepings, refuse
matter, ice, snow, garbage, ashes, tin cans or other like substances. (Ord.
2009-09, 10-1-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
   B.   Building Materials: Any wagons, lumber, wood boxes, fencing, building
material, dead trees, tree stumps, merchandise or other thing which shall
obstruct such public street, gutter, parking area or sidewalk, or any part
thereof, or the passage over and upon the same, or any part thereof, except as
expressly authorized by ordinance, without the permission of the city council
first had and obtained.
   C.   Permanent Or Temporary Structures: Any permanent or temporary
structure, mechanism, device, vehicle or other thing of any kind or character,
except trees planted pursuant to the provisions of applicable ordinances. (1982
Code § 11-362)
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section is guilty
of an infraction and upon conviction shall be punished according to the law.
(Ord. 2009-09, 10-1-2009, eff. 10-1-2009)
7-1-4: OPENINGS IN STREETS; DOORS OBSTRUCTING:
   A.   Cellars: It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building
having a cellar which opens upon any street or sidewalk to fail to keep the
door or other covering in good repair and safe for the passage of the customary
traffic on the street or sidewalk. If the owner or occupant of any such
building shall neglect or refuse to repair properly any such door or covering
within twenty four (24) hours after notice from the public works director to do
so, the public works director shall forthwith cause such repairs to be made at
the expense of the owner or occupant.
   B.   Coal Holes: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain coal holes or
other openings in streets or sidewalks, except with the special permission of
the city council, and under the direction and supervision of the public works
director. (1982 Code § 11-363; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Doors: It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having the control
or management of any alley, road or passageway to construct or hang gates or
doors to such alley, road or passageway so that the gates or doors thereto,
when open, shall project outwardly more than two feet (2') over or upon the
sidewalk beyond the property line. (1982 Code § 11-364)
7-1-5: DISCHARGE OF WATER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control
of any premises to fail, refuse or neglect to prevent water from the roof or
eaves of any house, building or other structure, or from any other source under
the control of such person, to be discharged upon the surface of any sidewalk.
   B.   Discharge Of Pollutants: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the city storm drain system or watercourse, any materials
including, but not limited to, pollutants, or water containing any pollutants,
that cause or contribute to a violation or applicable water quality standards,
other than stormwater in the drain.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to knowingly, intentionally or recklessly: Release
or direct the flow of any water into any conveyance facilities or onto any
neighboring property, without the legal right to do so. (1982 Code § 11-365;
amd. Ord. 2020-10, 10-15-2020; Ord. 2025-07, 6-19-2025)
7-1-6: SIDEWALK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Driving Or Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or
park a self-propelled vehicle, or lead, drive or ride any animal, upon any
sidewalk, except across a sidewalk at established crossings. (1982 Code § 11-
366)
   B.   Businesses To Keep Clean: It shall be unlawful for any owners or
occupants of any place of business to refuse, neglect or fail to cause the
sidewalk abutting thereon to be swept or cleaned each morning before the hour
of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (1982 Code § 11-367)
   C.   Placing Goods For Sale Or Show: No goods, wares or merchandise shall be
placed, maintained or permitted for sale or show in or on any parking area,
street or sidewalk beyond two feet (2') from the front line of the lot, without
first obtaining the written approval of the city council. Such approval shall
be granted only when such sale or show shall be a promotional activity not
exceeding forty eight (48) hours and when participated in by a majority of
firms seeking approval in their business areas. The city council's written
approval shall specifically provide that no goods, wares or merchandise shall
be placed in such a manner as to leave less than a six foot (6') passageway for
pedestrians. (1982 Code § 11-368)
   D.   Placing Goods For Receipt Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, or suffer to be placed or kept upon any sidewalk, any goods,
wares or merchandise which he may be receiving or delivering, without leaving a
foot passageway upon such sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for any person
receiving or delivering such goods, wares or merchandise to suffer the same to
be or remain on such sidewalk for a longer period than two (2) hours. (1982
Code § 11-369)
   E.   Playing: Every person who obstructs the sidewalk or street by playing
any game or engaging in any activity which obstructs the free travel thereon is
guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1982 Code § 11-370; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Congregating: It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to congregate about or upon any sidewalks,
stairway, doorway, window or in front of any business or dwelling house,
theater, lecture room, church or elsewhere and by so doing to obstruct or
interfere with the free passage of persons entering, leaving or occupying such
building or premises. (1982 Code § 11-371; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Inspection
7-2-2: Conform To Established Specifications
7-2-3: Changing Existing Construction
7-2-4: Building Materials In Street; Permit
7-2-5: Mixing Concrete On Paved Streets Or Sidewalks; Permit
7-2-6: Overflowing Of Water
7-2-7: Irrigation Ditches
7-2-8: Removal Of Earth
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION:
   A.   Required: No person, either as owner, agent, servant, contractor or
employee, shall construct any permanent sidewalk for public use without first
obtaining from the city recorder a permit to do so. The permit shall specify
that the sidewalk be constructed of cement, the character and quality of the
cement, the consistent parts of the mixture, and the thickness of the sidewalk.
   B.   Unlawful Violation Of Specifications: It shall be unlawful to construct
a sidewalk in violation of the specifications given by a proper city official.
(1982 Code § 11-352)
   C.   Inspection: All sidewalks shall be inspected by the public works
director or his duly authorized representative. (1982 Code § 11-352; amd. 2003
Code)
7-2-2: CONFORM TO ESTABLISHED SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, agent, servant, contractor
or employee to construct a street or sidewalk which does not conform to
specifications established by the city engineer or other authorized
representative of the city unless special permission to deviate from such
specification is first obtained from the city council. (1982 Code § 11-351)
7-2-3: CHANGING EXISTING CONSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a driveway across a sidewalk
or cut or change the construction of sidewalk, curb or gutter without first
making written application and obtaining from the city recorder a permit to do
so. The acceptance of such permit shall be deemed an agreement on the part of
such person to construct said driveway in accordance with specifications
furnished by the city. (1982 Code § 11-353)
7-2-4: BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET; PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or use any portion of the public
streets when erecting or repairing any building upon land abutting thereon,
without first making application to and receiving from the city recorder a
permit for the occupation or use of such portions of streets for such periods
of time and under such limitations and restrictions as may be required by the
city council. Any such permit may be revoked by the city council at any time
when the holder thereof fails to comply with any rule or regulation under which
it is granted, or when, in the opinion of the city council, the public interest
requires such revocation. (1982 Code § 11-354; amd. 2003 Code)
7-2-5: MIXING CONCRETE ON PAVED STREETS OR SIDEWALKS; PERMIT:
Unless a permit from the city recorder has been obtained, it shall be unlawful
to: (1982 Code § 11-355; amd. 2003 Code)
   A.   Place, Pile Or Permit: Place or pile or permit to be placed or piled,
any sand, gravel, lime, cement, mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance
or mixture, or allow the same to remain on any portion of any paved street or
sidewalk.
   B.   Make, Mix Or Permit: Make or mix or permit to be made or mixed any
mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance or mixture on any portion of
any paved street or sidewalk. (1982 Code § 11-355)
7-2-6: OVERFLOWING OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow water to overflow from any ditch,
canal, well or irrigation stream onto the streets, sidewalks or property of the
city. (1982 Code § 11-356)
7-2-7: IRRIGATION DITCHES:
All owners or occupants of lots in the city who require water from a ditch for
irrigation or other purposes shall dig ditches, erect flumes, lay pipes and
install culverts, as needed, and maintain the same to convey water under
sidewalks to or from their respective lots. All culverts, ditches, pipes and
flumes conveying water under sidewalks shall meet such reasonable standards and
specifications as may be established by the public works director. (1982 Code §
11-357; amd. 2003 Code)
7-2-8: REMOVAL OF EARTH:
No person shall dig, cut or remove any sod or earth from any street or other
public place without a permit from the city recorder. (1982 Code § 11-358; amd.
2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS AND STREET CUTS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Administrative Authority
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Permit Required; Basis For Issuance
7-3-4: Application For Permit; Requirements
7-3-5: Fees For Permit
7-3-6: Insurance Requirements
7-3-7: Bond Required
7-3-8: Duration Of Permit; Extensions
7-3-9: Compliance Required
7-3-10: Relocation Of Structures In Public Ways
7-3-11: Impact On Existing Improvements
7-3-12: Restoration Of Public Property
7-3-13: Transferability; Assignability
7-3-14: Other Highway Permits
7-3-15: Work Without Permit; Consequences
7-3-16: Revocation Or Suspension; Stop Order; Default
7-3-17: Failure To Conform To Design Standards
7-3-18: Emergency Work
7-3-19: Nonliability Of City
7-3-20: Appeals
7-3-21: Tampering With Traffic Barricades
7-3-22: Conflicting Provisions
7-3-23: Penalty
7-3-1: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
In approving or disapproving work within any public way, or permits therefor,
in the inspection of such work; in reviewing plans, sketches or specifications;
and generally in the exercise of the authority conferred upon him/her by this
chapter, the city engineer shall act in such manner as to preserve and protect
the public way and the use thereof, but shall have no authority to govern the
actions or inaction of permittees and applicants or other persons which have no
relationship to the use, preservation or protection of the public way. (Ord.
2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for a permit.
BUSINESS: Any place in the city in which there is conducted or carried on
principally or exclusively any pursuit or occupation for the purpose of gaining
a livelihood.
CITY: Plain City, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer or his/her authorized representative.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes an immediate danger to persons or property, or which causes
interruption of utility or public services.
ENGINEERING REGULATIONS, REGULATIONS, SPECIFICATIONS AND/OR DESIGN STANDARDS:
The latest version of the engineering regulations, specifications, design
standards or criteria published or adopted by the city engineer.
FAILURE: A work site restoration which fails to meet city engineer
specifications, or which results in a deteriorated or substandard condition
within the duration of the warranty period. Failure may be settlement of
surfaces, deterioration of materials or other surface irregularities.
Measurement of failure shall be further defined in the engineering regulations.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the right of way.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more affiliates owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
PERMITTEE: Any person which has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed to
fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
PERSON: Means and includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association,
provider, corporation, company, organization or entity of any kind.
PIPE DRIVEWAY: A driveway approach which uses a pipe or other means to bridge
the gutter.
PRIVATE DRAIN LINE: A pipe installed solely for the transmission of water
collected or generated on private property, such as drainage, spring or storm
water, or condensate into the public drainage system.
PROPERTY OWNER: Person or persons who have legal title to property and/or
equitable interest in the property, or the ranking official or agent of a
company having legal title to property and/or equitable interest in the
property.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, system lessee or
public utility company.
PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY: Any company subject to the jurisdiction of the Utah
state public service commission or any mutual corporation providing gas,
electricity, water, telephone or other utility products or services for use by
the general public.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all public rights of way and easements, public
footpaths, walkways and sidewalks, public streets, public roads, public
highways, public alleys and public drainageways. It does not, however, include
utility easements not within public ways of the city.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides service over a system for which a
separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying
system used for the transmission and does not install any system in the rights
of way.
RESIDENT: The person or persons currently making their home at a particular
dwelling.
STORM DRAIN: A dedicated pipe, conduit, waterway or ditch installed in a right
of way or easement for the transmission of storm and drainage water. This term
does not include private drain lines.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider located in the construction,
ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
WORK SITE RESTORATION: Means and includes the restoring of the original ground
or paved hard surface area to comply with engineering regulations, and
includes, but is not limited to, repair, cleanup, backfilling, compaction and
stabilization, paving and other work necessary to place the site in acceptable
condition following the conclusion of the work, or the expiration or revocation
of the permit. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
7-3-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; BASIS FOR ISSUANCE:
Any person desiring to perform work of any kind in a public way within the
city, shall make application for a permit. The decision by the city to issue a
permit shall include, among other factors determined by the city, the
following:
   A.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate the facilities or
structures proposed to be installed in the public way;
   B.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate multiple wire in addition
to cables, conduits, pipes or other facilities or structures of other users of
the public way, such as electrical power, telephone, gas, sewer and water;
   C.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements or landscaping previously existing in the public way;
   D.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction from numerous excavations of the public way. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-
2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required; Filing: Application for a permit shall be filed with the city
engineer or public works director on a form or forms to be furnished by the
city. Property owners and/or tenants for whom work is being done shall be
responsible for obtaining the permits; provided however, contractors may obtain
the permit in the contractor's name.
   B.   Eligible Persons: No person shall be eligible to apply for or receive
permits to do work within the public ways of the city, save and except the
following:
      1.   Contractors licensed by the state as general contractors;
      2.   Providers;
      3.   Property owners installing, replacing or maintaining less than five
hundred (500) square feet or one hundred (100) linear feet of sidewalk, curb
and gutter, or driveway approach, or other work approved by the city engineer,
upon a portion of the public way adjacent to their residence; or
      4.   Persons offering a service which requires occupation of the public
way, such as scaffold or staging, staging of a crane, installation or
maintenance of electric signs, glass, awnings and painting or cleaning of
buildings or sign boards or other structures.
   C.   Denial Based On Past Performances: The city engineer may deny the
issuance of permits to contractors, utility companies or other permit
applicants who have shown by past performance that, in the opinion of the city
engineer, they will not consistently conform to the engineering regulations,
specifications, design standards or the requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Engineering Plans; When Required: When necessary, in the judgment of
the city engineer, to fully determine the relationship of the work proposed to
existing or proposed facilities within the public ways, or to determine whether
the work proposed complies with the engineering regulations, construction
specifications and design standards, the city engineer may require the filing
of engineering plans, specifications and sketches showing the proposed work in
sufficient detail to permit determination of such relationship or compliance,
or both, and the application shall be deemed suspended until such plans and
sketches are filed and approved.
   E.   Approval Required Prior To Commencement Of Work: It shall be unlawful
for any person to commence work upon any public way until the city engineer has
approved the application and until a permit has been issued for such work,
except as specifically approved to the contrary in this chapter.
   F.   Government Employees: It shall be lawful for a city, county, state,
federal or other government employee to perform routine maintenance work, not
involving excavations, without first having obtained a permit therefor.
   G.   Hand Digging Excavations: A permit is not required from the city
engineer for hand digging excavations for installation or repair of sprinkler
systems and landscaping within the nonpaved areas of the public way. However,
conformance to all city specifications is required. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000,
eff. 5-4-2000; amd. Ord. 2020-10, 10-15-2020)
7-3-5: FEES FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Authorized: The city shall charge and the permittee shall pay, upon
issuance of the permit, fees for costs associated with the work performed under
the permit as outlined in the consolidated fee schedule. Such costs could
include costs for reviewing the project and issuing the permit, inspections of
the project, deterioration of the public way or diminution of the useful life
of the public way, and other costs to the city associated with the work to be
done under the permit. All costs shall be assessed in a nondiscriminatory
manner.
   B.   Waiver; Determination: The city engineer may waive permit fees or
penalties, or portion thereof, provided for in this chapter, when he/she
determines that such permit fee or penalty:
      1.   Low Income Housing: Pertains to construction or rehabilitation of
housing for persons whose income is below the median income level for the city;
or
      2.   Encroachment Involving Beautification Project: Pertains to an
encroachment on the public way involving a beautification project which
furthers specific goals and objectives set forth in the city's strategic plan,
master plans or other official documents, including decorative street lighting,
building facade lighting, flower and planter boxes and landscaping.
   C.   Required Reviews And Inspections: Additional charges to cover the
reasonable cost and expenses of any required engineering review, inspection and
work site restoration associated with each undertaking may be charged by the
city to each permittee, in addition to the permit fee. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000,
eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-6: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Evidence Provided; Limits, Provisions: Before a permit is issued, the
applicant shall furnish to the city evidence that such applicant has a
comprehensive general liability and property damage policy that includes
contractual liability coverage endorsed with the following limits and
provisions:
      1.   A minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single
limit per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage and
not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate. The general
aggregate limit shall apply separately to the permit, or the general aggregate
limit shall be two (2) times the required occurrence limit. The coverage shall
be in the nature of broad form commercial general liability coverage. The city
attorney may increase or decrease minimum insurance limits, depending on the
potential liability of any project.
      2.   All policies shall include the city, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers and assigns as insured. Any reference to the
"city" shall include the city, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers and assigns.
      3.   The coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the city, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers, and assigns. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance
and shall not contribute to or with it.
      4.   Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall
not effect coverage provided to the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns.
      5.   Coverage shall state that the permittee's insurance shall apply
separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought,
except with respect to the limits of the insurer's liability.
      6.   Underwriters shall have no right of recovery or subrogation against
the city, it being the intent of the parties that the insurance policy so
affected shall protect both parties and be primary coverage for any and all
losses covered by the described insurance.
      7.   The insurance companies issuing the policy shall have no recourse
against the city for payment of any premiums due or for any assessments under
any form of any policy.
      8.   Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to state that the coverage
shall not be suspended, voided, canceled or reduced in coverage or in limits,
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, sent to the city.
      9.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, save harmless and defend
the city and its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or
expense sustained on account of damages to persons or property occurring by
reason of permit work done by the permittee, his/her subcontractor or agent,
whether or not the work has been completed and whether or not the right of way
has been opened to public travel.
      10.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, hold harmless and
defend the city and its officers and employees against any claim or loss,
damage or expense sustained by any person occurring by reason of doing any work
pursuant to the permit, including, but not limited to, falling objects or
failure to maintain proper barricades and/or lights as required from the time
work begins until the work is completed and right of way is opened for public
use.
   B.   Rating Of Insurer: Insurance is to be placed with insurers with an AM
Best rating of no less than an "A" carrier, with a rating of "7" or higher.
   C.   Certificates, Endorsements: The permittee shall furnish the city with
certificates of insurance and original endorsements affecting coverage required
by the permit. The certificates and endorsements of each insurance policy are
to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its
behalf. The city expressly reserves the right to require complete, certified
copies of all required insurance policies at any time. Consequently, the
permittee shall be prepared to provide such copies prior to the issuance of the
permit.
   D.   Unsatisfactory Policy: If any of the required policies are, or at any
time become, unsatisfactory to the city as to form or substance, or if a
company issuing any such policy is, or at any time becomes, unsatisfactory to
the city, the permittee shall promptly obtain a new policy, submit the same to
the city for approval and thereafter submit verification of coverage as
required by the city. Upon failure to furnish, deliver and maintain such
insurance as provided herein, the city may declare the permit to be in default
and pursue any and all remedies the city may have at law or in equity,
including those actions outlined in this chapter.
   E.   Subcontractors: The permittee shall include all subcontractors as
insured under its policies or shall furnish separate certificates and
endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be
subject to all of the requirements stated herein.
   F.   Deductibles, Self-Insured Retentions: Any deductibles or self-insured
retentions shall be declared to and approved by the city. At the option of the
city, either the insurer shall reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-
insured retentions as respects the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers or assigns, or the permittee shall procure a bond, in a form
acceptable to the city, guaranteeing payment of losses and related
investigations, claim administration and defense expenses.
   G.   Property Owner Performing Work: A property owner performing work
adjacent to his/her residence may submit proof of a homeowner's insurance
policy in lieu of the insurance requirements of this section.
   H.   Relief Of Obligation; Circumstances: A public utility company provider
may be relieved of the obligation of submitting certificates of insurance under
the following circumstances:
      1.   If such company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that:
         a.   It is insured in the amounts set forth in this chapter or has
complied with state requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may
submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of individual
submissions for each permit; and
         b.   Said coverage provides to the city the same scope of coverage
that would otherwise be provided by a separate policy as required by this
chapter; or
      2.   The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant is
to be performed by the city, in which case insurance or other risk transfer
issues shall be negotiated between the city and the applicant by separate
agreement. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-7: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Acceptable Security: Except as noted in this chapter, each applicant,
before being issued a permit, shall provide the city with an acceptable
security (this may include a corporate surety bond, cash bond or letter of
credit, as determined by the city) in the amount of the engineer's estimate of
the total cost of the project to guarantee faithful performance of the work
authorized by a permit granted pursuant to this chapter. The amount of the
security required may be increased or decreased at the discretion of the city
engineer whenever it appears that the amount and cost of the work to be
performed, and not satisfactorily completed, may vary from the amount of
security otherwise required under this chapter. The form of the security and
the entity issuing the security shall be subject to the approval of the city
attorney.
   B.   Public Utilities Franchised By City: Public utilities franchised by the
city shall not be required to file any security if such requirement is
expressly waived in the franchise documents.
   C.   Conditions Of Security: The security required by this section shall be
conditioned as follows:
      1.   Compliance With Specifications And Regulations: The permittee shall
fully comply with the requirements of the city ordinances and regulations,
specifications and standards promulgated by the city relative to work in the
public way, and respond to the city in damages for failure to conform
therewith;
      2.   Diligent Completion: After work is commenced, the permittee shall
proceed with diligence and expedition and shall promptly complete such work and
restore the public way to construction specifications so as not to obstruct the
public place or travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary;
      3.   Guarantee Of Materials, Workmanship: The permittee shall guarantee
the materials and workmanship for a period of two (2) years from completion of
such work, with reasonable wear and tear excepted; and
      4.   Street Facilities: Unless authorized by the city engineer on the
permit, all paving, resurfacing or replacement of street facilities on major or
collector streets shall be done in conformance with the regulations contained
herein within three (3) calendar days, and within seven (7) calendar days from
the time the excavation commences on all other streets, except as provided for
during excavation in winter or during weather conditions which do not allow
paving according to engineering regulations. In winter, a temporary patch must
be provided. In all excavations, restoration of pavement surfaces shall be made
immediately after backfilling is completed or concrete is cured. If work is
expected to exceed the above duration, the permittee shall submit a detailed
construction schedule for approval. The schedule will address means and methods
to minimize traffic disruption and complete the construction as soon as
reasonably possible. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-8: DURATION OF PERMIT; EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Completion Date; Determination: Each permit application shall state the
starting date and estimated completion date. Work shall be completed within
five (5) days from the starting date or as determined by the city engineer.
Such determination shall be based upon factors reasonably related to the work
to be performed under the permit. Such factors may include, in addition to
other factors related to the work to be performed, the following:
      1.   The scope of work to be performed under the permit;
      2.   Maintaining the safe and effective flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on the public way affected by the work;
      3.   Protecting the existing improvements to the public way impacted by
the work;
      4.   The season of the year during which the work is to be performed, as
well as the current weather and its impact on public safety and the use of the
public way by the public;
      5.   Use of the public way for extraordinary events anticipated by the
city.
   B.   Notification To City Upon Commencement: The city engineer shall be
notified by the permittee of commencement of the work within twenty four (24)
hours prior to commencing work. The permit shall be valid for the time period
specified in the permit.
   C.   Application For Extension: If the work is not completed during such
period, prior to the expiration of the permit, the permittee may apply to the
city engineer for an additional permit or an extension, which may be granted by
the city engineer for good cause shown.
   D.   Length Of Extension: The length of the extension requested by the
permittee shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer. No extension
shall be made that allows work to be completed in the winter period without
payment of winter fees. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-9: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Regulations, Specifications: The work performed in the public way shall
conform to the requirements of the engineering regulations, design standards,
construction specifications and traffic control regulations of the city, copies
of which shall be available from the city engineer, kept on file in the office
of the city recorder and be open to public inspection during office hours.
   B.   Unattended Site; Permittee Identification: Where a job site is left
unattended before completion of the work, signage with minimum two inch (2")
high letters shall be attached to a barricade or otherwise posted at the site,
indicating the permittee's name or company name, telephone number and after
hours telephone number. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
   C.   Traffic Control; Barricades: All excavations shall be conducted in a
manner resulting in a minimum amount of interference or interruption of street
or pedestrian traffic. Inconvenience to residents and businesses fronting on
the public way shall be minimized. Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades
and/or other structures will be available and used where necessary to prevent
accidents involving property or persons. Barricades must be in place until all
of the permittee's equipment is removed from the site and the excavation has
been backfilled and proper temporary gravel surface is in place, except where
backfilling and resurfacing is to be done by the city; in which case the
barricades, together with any necessary lights, flares or torches, must remain
in place until the backfill work is actually commenced by the city. From sunset
to sunrise, all barricades and excavations must be clearly outlined by adequate
signal lights, torches, etc. The sheriff's office and fire department shall be
notified at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any planned excavation
requiring street closure or traffic detour. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-
2000; amd. 2003 Code)
7-3-10: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Authority; Costs: The city engineer may direct any person owning or
maintaining facilities or structures in the public way to alter, modify or
relocate such facilities or structures as the city engineer may require.
Sewers, pipes, drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe driveways, vaults, trash
receptacles and overhead and underground gas, electric, telephone,
telecommunication and communication facilities shall specifically be subject to
such directives. The person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
shall, at their own cost and expense and upon reasonable written notice by the
city, promptly protect or promptly alter or relocate such facilities or
structures, or part thereof, as directed by the city. In the event that such
person refuses or neglects to conform to the directive of the city, the city
shall have the right to break through, remove, alter or relocate such part of
the facilities or structures without liability to such person. Such person
shall pay to the city all costs incurred by the city in connection with such
work performed by the city, including also design, engineering, construction,
materials, insurance, court costs and attorney fees.
   B.   Considerations For Issuing Directive: Any directive by the city
engineer shall be based upon the following:
      1.   The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being
maintained contrary to law, or determined by the city engineer to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      2.   The facility or structure constitutes a nuisance as defined under
state statute;
      3.   The permit under which the facility or structure was installed has
expired or has been revoked;
      4.   The public way is about to be repaired or improved and such
facilities or structures may pose a hindrance to construction; or
      5.   The grades or lines of the public way are to be altered or changed.
(Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
   C.   Failure To Comply: Any person owning or maintaining facilities or
structures in the public way who fails to alter, modify or relocate such
facilities or structures upon notice to do so by the city engineer shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. All costs of alteration, modification or relocation shall
be borne by the person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
involved. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
7-3-11: IMPACT ON EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Sidewalk Or Curb Ramp Blocked; Temporary Improvement: If any sidewalk
or curb ramp is blocked by excavation work, a temporary sidewalk or curb ramp
shall be constructed or provided. Said temporary improvement shall be safe for
travel and convenient for users, and consistent with city standards for such.
   B.   Paved Areas; Temporary Surface: Where excavations are made in paved
areas, the surface shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface until such
time as the permanent repairs are completed.
   C.   Disturbance Of Property:
      1.   At any time a permittee disturbs the yard, residence or the real or
personal property of a private property owner or the city, such permittee shall
ensure that such property is returned, replaced and/or restored to a condition
that is comparable to the condition that existed prior to the commencement of
the work.
      2.   The costs associated with the disturbance and the return,
replacement and/or restoration shall be done by the permittee. Further, a
permittee shall reimburse a property owner or the city for any actual damage
caused by the permittee, its subcontractor or its independent contractor, in
connection with the disturbance of such property. However, nothing in this
subsection shall require the permittee to pay a subscriber or private property
owner when that subscriber or private property owner requests that the
permittee remove, replace or relocate improvements associated with the service
provided by the permittee to the property owner and when the permittee
exercises due care in the performance of that service, or when the subscriber
or private property owner provided false information to the permittee on which
the permittee relied to its detriment.
   D.   Acts Specifically Included: Examples of types of acts specifically
included in this section are the following:
      1.   Removal of sod, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, trees, driveways or fence
to install, trench, repair, replace, remove or locate, equipment, cable or
other appurtenances of the permittee;
      2.   Installation or removal of equipment or other appurtenances of the
permittee's system within a private property owner's property or residence
which requires drilling, excavating, plastering or the like on the part of the
permittee;
      3.   Temporarily relocating or moving a piece of personal property or a
fixture of a private property owner, such as a motor vehicle, fence, air
conditioning, heating unit or the like, in order to perform some sort of
construction, maintenance or repair by the permittee; or
      4.   Permanently removing a permittee's equipment or other appurtenances
due to the revocation, termination or nonrenewal of the franchise (if
applicable).
   E.   Drainage Channels Free From Debris: Existing drainage channels, such as
gutters or ditches, shall be kept free of dirt or other debris so that natural
flow will not be interrupted. When it is necessary to block or otherwise
interrupt flow of the drainage channel, a method of rerouting the flow must be
submitted for approval by the city engineer prior to the blockage of the
channel.
   F.   Subcontractor, Independent Contractor: The requirements imposed upon
the permittee extend to any subcontractor or independent contractor that the
permittee might employ to perform the tasks pursuant to the permit.
   G.   Exception: The requirements of this section shall not apply to the
removal by a permittee of a permanent structure placed by a property owner in a
public way, unless such property owner has received prior written permission
from the city granting the property owner the right to install a permanent
structure on a public way, and such written permission has been recorded in the
office of the county recorder. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-12: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Permittee Responsible: The permittee shall, at its own expense, restore
the surface of any public way to its original condition and replace any removed
or damaged pavement with the same type and depth of pavement as that which is
adjoining, including the gravel base material. All restoration shall conform to
the engineering regulations, design standards and specifications promulgated by
the city and shall be accomplished within the time limits set forth in the
permit, unless additional time is granted in writing by the department.
   B.   By City Upon Request Of Permittee: At its option, the permittee doing
the actual excavation work may request that the city restore the surface to its
original condition. The fee for such resurfacing shall be determined by the
city engineer in accordance with its reasonable costs for such work and shall
be charged to the person, firm or corporation making the excavation. Payment
for said work shall be received by the city prior to the release of the bond.
(Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-13: TRANSFERABILITY; ASSIGNABILITY:
Permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not be
performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the permit.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting the work
to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of the
permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work under
the permit, and for all bonding, insurance and other requirements of this
chapter and under said permit. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-14: OTHER HIGHWAY PERMITS:
   A.   City Permit Not Required: Holders of permits for work on highways owned
or under the jurisdiction of other government entities, but located within the
city limits, shall not be required to obtain permits from the city under the
provisions of this chapter, unless the work extends beyond the back side of the
curb, or beyond any other designated jurisdictional boundary. Any city permit
shall not be construed to permit or allow work on a county road or a state
highway within the city without an applicable county or state permit.
   B.   Regulation Of Work By City; Authority: The city engineer, in his or her
discretion, shall have the right and authority to regulate work under permits
issued by other governmental entities with respect to hours and days of work,
and measures required to be taken by the permittee of said governmental entity
for the protection of traffic and safety of persons and property.
   C.   Liability: Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to impose any duty, implied or expressed, on the city or its
employees, officers, agents or assigns, relative to the protection of traffic
and safety of persons or property arising out of the issuance of any permit
issued by government entities other than the city, or arising out of any work
performed on any public way owned or within the jurisdiction of the city. (Ord.
2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-15: WORK WITHOUT PERMIT; CONSEQUENCES:
   A.   Stop Order: A stop order may be issued by the city engineer directed to
any person or persons doing or causing any work to be done in the public way
without a permit.
   B.   Fee: Any person found to be doing work in the public way without having
obtained a permit, as provided in this chapter, shall be required to pay a
permit fee equal to two (2) times the normal permit fee. For replacement work,
where a fee is not normally charged, the normal permit fee for new construction
shall apply. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-16: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; STOP ORDER; DEFAULT:
   A.   Authority; Notice: Any permit may be revoked or suspended and a stop
order issued by the city engineer, after notice to the permittee for:
      1.   Violation of any condition of the permit, the security, or of any
provision of this chapter;
      2.   Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the city or law
relating to the work; or
      3.   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act which does
constitute, may constitute, or cause a condition endangering life or property.
   B.   Immediate Effect: A suspension or revocation by the city engineer and a
stop order, shall take effect immediately upon entry thereof by the city
engineer and notice to the person performing the work in the public way. Notice
to the person performing the work shall be accomplished when the city engineer
has posted a stop work order at the location of the work and written notice has
been mailed, return receipt requested, to the address indicated by the
permittee on the permit.
   C.   Default: Whenever the city engineer finds that a default has occurred
in the performance of any term or condition of the permit, written notice
thereof may be given to the principal and to the surety on the bond, if there
is a surety bond. Such notice shall state the work to be done, the estimated
cost thereof and the period of time deemed by the city engineer to be
reasonably necessary for the completion of the work.
   D.   Failure To Commence Work: In the event that the surety (or principal),
within a reasonable time following the giving of such notice (taking into
consideration the exigencies of the situation, the nature of the work, the
requirements of public safety and for the protection of persons and property),
fails either to commence and cause the required work to be performed with due
diligence, or to indemnify the city for the cost of doing the work, as set
forth in the notice, the city may perform the work, at the discretion of the
city engineer, with city forces or contract forces, or both, and suit may be
commenced by the city attorney against the contractor and bonding company and
such other persons as may be liable, to recover the entire amount due to the
city, including attorney fees, on account thereof. In the event that cash has
been deposited, the cost of performing the work may be charged against the
amount deposited, and suit brought for the balance due, if any. (Ord. 2000-06,
5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-17: FAILURE TO CONFORM TO DESIGN STANDARDS:
For failure to conform to the design standards and regulation, the city
engineer may:
   A.   Suspend or revoke the permit;
   B.   Issue a stop order;
   C.   Order removal and replacement of faulty work;
   D.   Require an extended warranty period; and/or
   E.   Negotiate a cash settlement to be applied toward future maintenance
costs. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-18: EMERGENCY WORK:
   A.   Authorized Without Permit: Any person maintaining pipes, lines or
facilities in the public way may proceed with work upon existing facilities
without a permit when emergency circumstances demand the work to be done
immediately; provided a permit could not reasonably and practicably have been
obtained beforehand.
   B.   Notification To City; Protection Of Public: In the event that emergency
work is commenced on or within any public way of the city during regular
business hours, the city engineer shall be notified within one-half (1/2) hour
from the time the work is commenced. The person commencing and conducting such
work shall take all necessary safety precautions for the protection of the
public and the direction and control of traffic, and shall ensure that work is
accomplished according to city engineering regulations, the manual on uniform
traffic control devices and other applicable laws, regulations or generally
recognized practices in the industry.
   C.   Application For Permit; Time Limit: Any person commencing emergency
work in the public way during other than business hours without a permit shall
immediately thereafter apply for a permit or give notice during the first hour
of the first regular business day on which city offices are open for business
after such work is commenced. A permit for such emergency work may be issued
which shall be retroactive to the date when the work was begun, at the
discretion of the city engineer. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-19: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
   A.   Agreement To Hold City Harmless: The permittee agrees to save the city,
its officers, employees and agents harmless from any and all costs, damages and
liabilities which may accrue or be claimed to accrue by reason of any work
performed under the permit. The issuance and acceptance of any permit under
this chapter shall constitute such an agreement by the permittee to this
section.
   B.   Liability: This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon the
city, its officers, employees and agents, any liability or responsibility for
damages to any person injured by or by reason of the performance of any work
within the public way, or under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter; nor
shall the city, its officers, officials, employees, agents, volunteers or
assigns thereof be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility
by reason of inspection authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit or the
approval of any work. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-20: APPEALS:
   A.   Application Disapproval Or Denial: The disapproval or denial of an
application by the city engineer may be appealed by the applicant to the city
council by the filing of a written notice of appeal within ten (10) days of the
action of the city engineer. The city council shall hear such appeal, if
written request therefor be timely filed as soon as practicable, and render
their decision within two (2) weeks following notice of such appeal.
   B.   Suspension, Revocation Or Stop Order: Any suspension, revocation or
stop order by the city engineer may be appealed by the permittee to the city
council by filing a written notice of appeal within ten (10) days of the action
of the city engineer. The city council shall hear such appeal, if written
request therefor be timely filed, as soon as practicable, and render their
decision within a reasonable time following filing of notice of appeal. (Ord.
2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
7-3-21: TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly or without
authorization and legal cause, extinguish, remove or diminish any light
illuminating any barricade or excavation, or to tear down, remove or in any
manner alter any rail, fence or barricade protecting any excavation or other
construction site. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-22: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance, agreement, franchise or other document
governing the excavation of a public way, the more restrictive provisions of
the aforesaid documents shall apply. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-3-23: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any provision of
this chapter, or failure to comply with an order of suspension, revocation or
stop work, shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day the violation exists shall be a separate offense.
No criminal conviction shall excuse the person from otherwise complying with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000; amd.
2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; USE AND CONTROL
SECTION:
7-4-1: Use And Control
7-4-2: Sale Of City Property
7-4-1: USE AND CONTROL:
   A.   Unlawful Use: Unless authorized by permit or other written
authorization issued by the city, or unless authority is granted by provisions
of this code or other ordinance of the city, now or hereafter enacted, it shall
be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to: (1982 Code § 8-111; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Property Controlled By City: Construct, lay, excavate, erect,
operate or maintain over, under, across, in or through any property owned or
controlled by the city, any utility, canal, ditch, construction or building.
      2.   Restricted Areas: Enter upon any property of the city contrary to
any posting or marking restricting or prohibiting use of the area.
      3.   Damage To Property: Intentionally use or perform acts upon property
of the city which materially impairs, alters or damages the property. (1982
Code § 8-111)
   B.   Repair After Unlawful Use: The city council, in addition to any other
penalty which may be imposed, may order any person who has damaged, altered or
changed any property of the city to repair or restore the property to its
original condition prior to the damage, alteration or change. (1982 Code § 8-
112)
   C.   Franchise; Easement:
      1.   Provisions: The city council may grant to any person a franchise or
easement, on such terms and conditions as it deems reasonable, for the purpose
of entering upon, constructing, building, operating and maintaining any
business or for other use of the property of the city, and the provisions of
subsections A and B of this section shall not apply to the extent such
provisions are waived, qualified or made inapplicable to the rights or
privileges granted in the franchise ordinance or easement.
      2.   In Writing: Any franchise or easement granted by the city shall be
in writing and any franchise or easement not in writing shall be void. (1982
Code § 8-113)
   D.   Acts Exempted: It shall not be a violation of this section where any
person uses the public property of the city in the manner or for the purpose
for which such property has been made available for public use. (1982 Code § 8-
114)
7-4-2: SALE OF CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   Significant Parcel: All parcels of real property owned by the city of
Plain City shall be considered significant parcels for the purpose of noticing
requirements and sale procedures as outlined in this section.
   B.   Reasonable Notice: The city shall provide reasonable notice of the
proposed disposition of any city owned real property at least fourteen (14)
days prior to any public comment on the proposed sale. Notice shall be deemed
reasonable if it has been published in the newspaper at least one time.
   C.   Value Of The Property: The city shall establish a fair market value for
any city owned property proposed for disposition by having an appraisal
performed on the property through a licensed appraiser.
   D.   Method Of Sale: Any city owned property proposed for disposition shall
be listed for sale using a licensed real estate agent. The city may forgo the
use of a real estate agent if a buyer is located through other means and at
least the fair market value, as discussed in subsection C of this section, is
paid for the property. (Ord. 2008-06, 3-6-2008, eff. 3-6-2008)
CHAPTER 5
TELECOMMUNICATIONS; USE OF RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-5-1: Findings And Intent; Authority
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Administration; General Provisions
7-5-4: Applicability; Exceptions
7-5-5: Franchise Required
7-5-6: Application For Franchise
7-5-7: Compensation, Fees And Payments
7-5-8: Insurance, Record Requirements
7-5-9: Construction, Technical Requirements
7-5-10: Private Property; Obligation To Notify
7-5-11: Transfer Of Franchise And License
7-5-12: Enforcement; Rights Of City
7-5-13: Severability
7-5-1: FINDINGS AND INTENT; AUTHORITY:
   A.   Rights Of Way: The city council finds that the rights of way within the
city:
      1.   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the business and social life of the city;
      2.   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
      3.   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and other
public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered for
profit, to the enhancement of the health, welfare and general economic well-
being of the city and its citizens; and
      4.   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and
negative effects upon the public from such facilities' construction, placement,
relocation and maintenance in the rights of way of the city.
   B.   Compensation: The city council finds that the city should receive fair
and reasonable compensation for use of the rights of way.
   C.   Local Concern: The city council finds that while telecommunications
systems are in part an extension of interstate commerce, their operations also
involve rights of way, municipal franchising and vital business and community
service, which are of local concern.
   D.   Promotion Of Telecommunications Services: The city council finds that
it is in the best interests of its taxpayers and citizens to promote the rapid
development of telecommunications services on a nondiscrimination basis,
responsive to community and public interest, and to assure availability for
municipal, educational and community services.
   E.   Franchise Standards: The city council finds that it is in the interests
of the public to franchise and to establish standards for franchising providers
in a manner that:
      1.   Fairly and reasonably compensates the city on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein;
      2.   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under
which providers may use the rights of way to serve the public;
      3.   Fully protects the public interests and the city from any harm that
may flow from such commercial use of rights of way;
      4.   Protects the police powers and rights of way management authority of
the city in a manner consistent with federal and state law;
      5.   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and use
of the city infrastructure;
      6.   Protects the public's investment in improvements in the rights of
way; and
      7.   Ensures that no barriers to entry of telecommunications providers
are created and that such franchising is accomplished in a manner that does not
prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting telecommunication services, within
the meaning of the telecommunications act of 1996 (P.L. No. 104-104).
(Hereinafter "the act")
   F.   Power To Manage Rights Of Way: The city adopts this telecommunications
chapter pursuant to its power to manage the rights of way, pursuant to common
law, the Utah constitution and statutory authority, and receive fair and
reasonable compensation for the use of rights of way by providers as expressly
set forth by section 253 of the act. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
"shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
APPLICATION: The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates a
desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the rights of way of all, or a
part, of the city. An application includes all written documentation, verbal
statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a provider
to the city concerning: the construction of a telecommunications system over,
under, on or through the rights of way; the telecommunications services
proposed to be provided in the city by a provider; and any other matter
pertaining to a proposed system or service.
CITY: Plain City, Utah.
COMPLETION DATE: The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers in the city.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS: All costs of constructing a system, including make ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney or accountant fees, or other
consulting fees.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person or group of persons acting in concert, of more
than twenty five percent (25%) of any provider (which person or group of
persons is hereinafter referred to as "controlling person"). Control or
controlling interest, as used herein, may be held simultaneously by more than
one person or group of persons.
FCC: The federal communications commission or any successor thereto.
FRANCHISE: The rights and obligations extended by the city to a provider to
own, lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a system in the rights of way
within the boundaries of the city. Any such authorization, in whatever form
granted, shall not mean or include:
   A.   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the city required by the
ordinances and laws of the city;
   B.   Any other permit, agreement or authorization required in connection
with operations on rights of way or public property, including, without
limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits
or other structures, whether owned by the city or a private entity, or for
excavating or performing other work in or along the rights of way.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A contract entered into in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter between the city and a franchisee that sets forth, subject to
this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will be
exercised.
GROSS REVENUE: Includes all revenues of a provider that may be included as
gross revenue within the meaning of Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 26,
as amended.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the rights of way.
OPEN VIDEO SERVICE: Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights of way by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to section 651 et seq., of the
telecommunications act (to be codified at 47 USC title VI, part V), regardless
of the system used.
OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM: The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides,
optic fiber, microwave, laser beams and any associated converters, equipment,
or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
amplifying or distributing open video services to or from subscribers or
locations within the city.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more persons owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
ORDINANCE OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE: This telecommunications chapter
concerning the granting of franchises in and by the city for the construction,
ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
PSC: The public service commission or any successor thereto.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust or any other legal entity, but not the city.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES: Has the same meaning as provided in
section 704 of the act (47 USC 332(c)(7)(c)), which includes what is commonly
known as cellular and PSC services that do not install any system or portion of
a system in the rights of way.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller or system lessee.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides local exchange service over a
system for which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or
lease the underlying system used for the transmission.
RIGHTS OF WAY: The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or hereafter
existing as such within the city.
SIGNAL: Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or laser
or radio frequency energy or optical information, in either analog or digital
format.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by the
user, of information of the user's choosing (e.g., data, video and voice),
without change in the form or content of the information sent and received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE OR SERVICES: Any telecommunications services
provided by a provider within the city that the provider is authorized to
provide under federal, state and local law, and any equipment and/or facilities
required for and integrated with the services provided within the city; except
that these terms do not include "cable service", as defined in the cable
communications policy act of 1984, as amended by the cable television consumer
protection and competition act of 1992 (47 USC 521 et seq.) and the
telecommunications act of 1996. Telecommunications service or services also
includes an open video service.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider, located in the rights of way
and utilized in the provision of services, including fully digital or analog,
voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced telecommunications services.
Telecommunications system or systems also includes an open video system.
WIRE: Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
(Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
7-5-3: ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conflicts: In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this chapter
in effect at the time the franchise is entered into shall control.
   B.   New Developments: It shall be the policy of the city to liberally amend
this chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable the
provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently or economically serve itself or the public. (Ord.
2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000
   C.   Notices: All notices from a provider to the city required under this
chapter or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
directed to the officer as designated by the mayor or city council. A provider
shall provide in any application for a franchise the identity, address and
phone number of the person designated to receive notices from the city. A
provider shall immediately notify the city of any change in its name, address
or telephone number. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Exercise Of Police Power: To the full extent permitted by applicable
law either now or in the future, the city reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers.
   E.   Construction:
      1.   Federal And State Statutes: This chapter shall be construed in a
manner consistent with all applicable federal and state statutes.
      2.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all franchises granted or
renewed after the effective date hereof. This chapter shall further apply, to
the extent permitted by applicable federal or state law, to all existing
franchises granted prior to the effective date hereof and to a provider
providing services, without a franchise, prior to the effective date hereof.
      3.   Other Applicable Ordinances: A provider's rights are subject to the
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to its
police powers. In particular, all providers shall comply with the city zoning
and other land use requirements.
      4.   City Failure To Enforce: A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter by reason of any failure of the city
to enforce prompt compliance.
      5.   Construed According To Utah Law: This chapter and any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance
with the substantive laws of the state. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-5-4: APPLICABILITY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Providers: This chapter shall provide the basic local scheme for
providers of telecommunications services and systems that require the use of
the rights of way, including providers of both the system and service, those
providers of the system only and those providers who do not build the system
but who only provide services. This chapter shall apply to all future providers
and to all providers in the city prior to the effective date hereof, whether
operating with or without a franchise, as set forth in subsection 7-5-3E2 of
this chapter.
   B.   Excluded Activities:
      1.   Cable Television Operators: This chapter shall not apply to cable
television operators otherwise regulated by city ordinances touching on cable
TV (the cable television ordinance).
      2.   Wireless Service Facilities: This chapter shall not apply to
personal wireless service facilities.
   C.   Excluded Providers; Provisions Applicable: Providers excused by other
law that prohibits the city from requiring a franchise shall not be required to
obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this chapter through
the exercise of the city's police power and not preempted by other law shall be
applicable. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-5-5: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
   A.   Nonexclusive Franchise; Authority: The city is empowered and authorized
to issue nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction and
maintenance of systems in the city's rights of way, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the city and provider.
   B.   Provider Required To Obtain: Except to the extent preempted by federal
or state law, as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including any appeals, every provider must obtain a franchise prior to
constructing a telecommunications system or providing telecommunications
services using the rights of way, and every provider must obtain a franchise
before constructing an open video system or providing open video services via
an open video system. Any open video system or service shall be subject to the
customer service and consumer protection provisions applicable to the cable TV
companies to the extent the city is not preempted or permitted as ultimately
interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction, including any appeals. The
fact that particular telecommunications systems may be used for multiple
purposes does not obviate the need to obtain a franchise for other purposes. By
way of illustration and not limitation, a cable operator of a cable system must
obtain a cable franchise, and, should it intend to provide telecommunications
services over the same system, must also obtain a telecommunications franchise.
   C.   Nature Of Grant: A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or
legal, in the rights of way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights of
way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period
stated in the franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned or
subleased. A franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate
access or pole attachment agreements before collocating its system on the
property of others, including the city's property. This subsection shall not be
construed to prohibit a provider from leasing conduit to another provider, so
long as the lessee has obtained a franchise.
   D.   Current Providers; Time Limit To Request: Except to the extent exempted
by federal or state law, any provider acting without a franchise on the
effective date hereof shall request issuance of a franchise from the city
within ninety (90) days of the effective date hereof. If such request is made,
the provider may continue providing service during the course of negotiations.
If a timely request is not made, or if negotiations cease and a franchise is
not granted, the provider shall comply with the provisions of subsection 7-5-
12D of this chapter.
   E.   Nature Of Franchise: The franchise granted by the city under the
provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise providing the
right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove and replace its system
on, over and under the rights of way in order to provide services.
   F.   Regulatory Approval Needed: Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of
such services from the appropriate federal, state and local authorities, if
required, and shall submit to the city, upon the written request of the city,
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
   G.   Term: No franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall have a term of
less than five (5) years or greater than fifteen (15) years. Each franchise
shall be granted in a nondiscriminatory manner. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff.
5-4-2000)
7-5-6: APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE:
   A.   Required; Form: To obtain a franchise to construct, own, maintain or
provide services through any system within the city, to obtain a renewal of a
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, or to obtain the city approval of a
transfer of a franchise, as provided in subsection 7-5-11A2 of this chapter,
granted pursuant to this chapter, an application must be filed with city on the
form attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit A, which is hereby
incorporated by reference. The application form may be changed by the mayor or
city council so long as such changes request information that is consistent
with this chapter. Such application form, as amended, is incorporated by
reference. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Criteria: In making a determination as to an application filed pursuant
to this chapter, the city may, but shall not be limited to, request the
following from the provider:
      1.   A copy of the order from the PSC granting a certificate of
convenience and necessity.
      2.   Certification of the provider's financial ability to compensate the
city for provider's intrusion, maintenance and use of the rights of way during
the franchise term proposed by the provider.
      3.   Provider's agreement to comply with the requirements of section
7-5-9 of this chapter.
   C.   Determination By City: The city, in its discretion, shall determine the
award of any franchise on the basis of these and other considerations relevant
to the use of the rights of way, without competitive bidding. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-
4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-5-7: COMPENSATION, FEES AND PAYMENTS:
   A.   Compensation; Provider Obligations: As fair and reasonable compensation
for any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall have the
following obligations: (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
      1.   Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the city to review
an application for a franchise and in addition to all other fees, permits or
charges, a provider shall pay to the city, at the time of application, a
nonrefundable application fee in such amount as established by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Franchise Fee: The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the
franchise agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence on
the completion date. The franchise fee is offset by any business license fee or
business license tax enacted by the city.
      3.   Excavation Permits: The provider shall also pay fees required for an
excavation permit as provided in chapter 3 of this title.
   B.   Due Monthly: Unless otherwise agreed to in the franchise agreement, all
franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within forty five (45) days of
the close of each calendar month.
   C.   Statement Of Calculation; Certification: Unless a franchise agreement
provides otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement
showing the manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to
its accuracy.
   D.   Future Costs: A provider shall pay to the city or to third parties, at
the direction of the city, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and
reasonable expenses that the city incurs for the services of third parties
(including, but not limited to, attorneys and other consultants) in connection
with any renewal or provider initiated renegotiation, or amendment of this
chapter or a franchise; provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon a
reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations. In the event the
parties are unable to agree, either party may submit the issue to binding
arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of the American
arbitration association. Additionally, any costs associated with any work to be
done by the power and public works department to provide space on city owned
poles, if any, shall be borne by the provider.
   E.   Taxes, Assessments: To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities, other than the city on the use of the city
property as a result of a provider's use or occupation of the rights of way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Interest On Late Payments: In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the city on or before the applicable date fixed in the
franchise, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the
rate charged for delinquent state taxes.
   G.   Acceptance Of Fee; Not Construed Satisfaction: No acceptance by the
city of any fee shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact
the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed
as a release of any claim the city may have for additional sums payable.
   H.   Additional Taxes Or Fees Still Applicable: The fee payment is not a
payment in lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment, except as specifically
provided in this chapter or as required by applicable law. By way of example,
and not limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the city
owned poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   I.   Operation After Term; Continuing Obligation And Holdover: In the event
a provider continues to operate all or any part of the system after the term of
the franchise, such operator shall continue to comply with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and the franchise, including, without limitation,
all compensation and other payment provisions throughout the period of such
continued operation; provided, that any such continued operation shall in no
way be construed as a renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a
limitation on the remedies, if any, available to the city as a result of such
continued operation after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and
restitution.
   J.   Publication Costs: A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise that may be required by law. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-
2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-5-8: INSURANCE, RECORD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Insurance Required: Prior to the execution of a franchise, a provider
will deposit with the city an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit or
surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and shall obtain and
provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the franchise. A provider
shall also indemnify the city as set forth in the franchise.
   B.   Inspection By City; Management: The city shall have the right to
oversee, regulate and inspect periodically the construction, maintenance and
upgrade of the system, and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions
of the franchise and applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain
managerial and operational records, standards, procedures and controls to
enable a provider to prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the
city at all times throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with
the franchise. A provider shall retain such records for not less than the
applicable statute of limitations. The provider shall, in a timely manner,
notify the city prior to the construction, maintenance and upgrade of the
system to allow the city to exercise the oversight rights conferred herein.
   C.   Records Maintenance: A provider shall at all times maintain:
      1.   On file with the city, a full and complete set of plans, records and
as built hard copy maps and, to the extent the maps are placed in an electronic
format, they shall be made in electronic format compatible with the city's
existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the types
of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights of way,
properly identified and described as to the types of equipment and facility by
appropriate symbols and marks, which shall include annotations of all rights of
way where work will be undertaken. As used herein, as built maps include file
construction prints. Maps shall be drawn to scale. As built maps, including the
compatible electronic format, as provided above, shall be submitted within
thirty (30) days of completion of work or within thirty (30) days after
completion of modification and repairs. As built maps are not required of the
provider who is the incumbent local exchange carrier for the existing system to
the extent they do not exist.
      2.   Throughout the term of the franchise, a provider shall maintain
complete and accurate books of account and records of the business, ownership
and operations of a provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows
the city at all times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the
franchise. Should the city reasonably determine that the records are not being
maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the
books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance
with this section. All financial books and records which are maintained in
accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that
regulates utilities in the state and generally accepted accounting principles
shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section.
   D.   Confidentiality: If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by federal, state or local
law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall be classified as
a protected record within the meaning of the Utah government records access and
management act (GRAMA), making it available only to those who must have access
to perform their duties on behalf of the city; provided, that a provider
notifies the city of, and clearly labels the information which a provider deems
to be confidential, proprietary information. Such notification and labeling
shall be the sole responsibility of the provider.
   E.   Provider's Expense: All reports and records required under this chapter
shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter or a franchise.
   F.   Right Of Inspection: For the purpose of verifying the correct amount of
the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto
shall be open to inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives of the
city at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records; provided, that the city shall not audit
the books and records of the provider more often than annually. The provider
agrees to reimburse the city the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit
discloses that the provider has paid ninety five percent (95%) or less of the
compensation due the city for the period of such audit. In the event the
accounting rendered to the city by the provider herein is found to be
incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount within thirty
(30) calendar days of written notice, it being agreed that the city may accept
any amount offered by the provider, but the acceptance thereof by the city
shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount is in dispute or is
later found to be incorrect. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-5-9: CONSTRUCTION, TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required; Excavation Permit: No provider shall receive a
franchise unless it agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this
section governing construction and technical requirements for its system, in
addition to any other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the
city or the franchise, including requirements regarding locating and sharing in
the cost of locating portions of the system with other systems or with city
utilities. A provider shall obtain an excavation permit, pursuant to the
excavation ordinance, as provided in chapter 3 of this title, before commencing
any work in the rights of way.
   B.   Quality And Performance Of Work: All work involved in the construction,
maintenance, repair, upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a
safe, thorough and reliable manner, using materials of good and durable
quality. If, at any time, it is determined by the FCC or any other agency
granted authority by federal law or the FCC to make such determination, that
any part of the system, including, without limitation, any means used to
distribute signals over or within the system, is harmful to the public health,
safety or welfare, or quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall,
at its own cost and expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   C.   Licenses And Permits: A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or
other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, maintain,
upgrade or repair the system, including, but not limited to, any necessary
approvals from persons and/or the city to use private property, easements,
poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval or authorization, including, but not limited to, excavation permits,
pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the commencement of the activity for
which the permit, license, approval or authorization is required.
   D.   Relocation Of System:
      1.   New Grades Or Lines; Excavation Requirements: If the grades or lines
of any rights of way are changed at any time in a manner affecting the system,
then a provider shall comply with the requirements of the excavation ordinance,
as provided in chapter 3 of this title.
      2.   Emergency; City Authority To Move System: The city may, at any time,
in case of fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the city in its
reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and appurtenances
on, over or under the rights of way of the city, in which event the city shall
not be liable therefor to a provider. The city shall notify a provider in
writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as possible and in
no case later than the next business day following any action taken under this
section. Notice shall be given as provided in subsection 7-5-3C of this
chapter.
      3.   Temporary Move For Third Party: A provider shall, upon prior
reasonable written notice by the city or any person holding a permit to move
any structure, and within the time that is reasonable under the circumstances,
temporarily move any part of its system to permit the moving of said structure.
A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any person other than the city for
any such movement of its systems.
      4.   Change In Rights Of Way; Obligation To Move System: When the city is
changing a right of way and makes a written request, a provider is required to
move or remove its system from the right of way, without cost to the city, to
the extent provided in the excavation ordinance, as provided in chapter 3 of
this title. This obligation does not apply to systems originally located on
private property pursuant to a private easement, which property was later
incorporated into the rights of way, if that private easement grants a superior
vested right. This obligation exists whether or not the provider has obtained
an excavation permit.
   E.   Protection Of Structures, Landmarks: In connection with the
construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider
shall, at its own cost and expense, protect any and all existing structures
belonging to the city and all designated landmarks, as well as all other
structures within any designated landmark district. A provider shall obtain the
prior written consent of the city to alter any water main, power facility,
sewerage or drainage system, or any other municipal structure on, over or under
the rights of way of the city required because of the presence of the system.
Any such alteration shall be made by the city or its designee on a reimbursable
basis. A provider agrees that it shall be liable for the costs incurred by the
city to replace or repair and restore to its prior condition, in a manner as
may be reasonably specified by the city, any municipal structure or any other
rights of way of the city involved in the construction, maintenance, repair,
upgrade or removal of the system that may become disturbed or damaged as a
result of any work thereon by or on behalf of a provider pursuant to the
franchise.
   F.   Obstructions Prohibited: In connection with the construction,
maintenance, upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not
unreasonably obstruct the rights of way of fixed guideway systems, railways,
passenger travel or other traffic to, from or within the city without the prior
consent of the appropriate authorities.
   G.   Safety Precautions: A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. A provider shall comply
with all applicable federal, state and local requirements, including, but not
limited to, the national electrical safety code.
   H.   Repair Of Rights Of Way: After written reasonable notice to the
provider, unless, in the sole determination of the city, an eminent danger
exists, any rights of way within the city which are disturbed or damaged during
the construction, maintenance or reconstruction by a provider of its system may
be repaired by the city, at the provider's expense, to a condition as good as
that prevailing before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the city shall
submit to such a provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and
restoring the rights of ways intruded upon. The provider shall, within thirty
(30) days after receipt of the statement, pay to the city the entire amount
thereof.
   I.   Maintenance Of System: A provider shall:
      1.   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a nondangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise.
      2.   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the national
electrical safety code and all applicable other federal, state and local laws
or regulations.
      3.   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the city of the system and its effect on the rights of way.
   J.   Trimming Trees; Authority: A provider shall have the authority to trim
trees, in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and
easement restrictions, upon and hanging over rights of way so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with its system. (Ord. 2000-05,
5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-5-10: PRIVATE PROPERTY; OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY:
Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good faith
attempt to contact the property owners in advance and describe the work to be
performed. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-5-11: TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE AND LICENSE:
   A.   Notification Of Sale:
      1.   PSC Approval: When a provider is the subject of a sale, transfer,
lease, assignment, sublease or disposal, in whole or in part, either by force
or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or otherwise, such that
it or its successor entity is obligated to inform or seek the approval of the
PSC, the provider or its successor entity shall promptly notify the city of the
nature of the transaction. The notification shall include either:
         a.   The successor entity's certification that the successor entity
unequivocally agrees to all of the terms of the original provider's franchise
agreement; or
         b.   The successor entity's application, in compliance with section
7-5-6 of this chapter.
      2.   Transfer Of Franchise: Upon receipt of a notification and
certification in accordance with subsection A1a of this section, the city
designee, as provided in subsection 7-5-12A1 of this chapter, shall send notice
affirming the transfer of the franchise to the successor entity. If the city
has good cause to believe that the successor entity may not comply with this
chapter or the franchise agreement, it may require an application for the
transfer. The application shall comply with section
7-5-6 of this chapter.
      3.   PSC Approval No Longer Required: If the PSC no longer exists or if
its regulations or state law no longer require approval of transactions
described in subsection A1 of this section, and the city has good cause to
believe that the successor entity may not comply with this chapter or the
franchise agreement, it may require an application. The application shall
comply with section
7-5-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Events Of Sale: The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of the franchise requiring compliance with
subsection A1 of this section:
      1.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of a
provider's assets to another person;
      2.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in a provider by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in a provider;
      3.   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership, membership
or other equity interest by a provider so as to create a new controlling
interest in such a provider; or
      4.   The entry by a provider into an agreement with respect to the
management or operation of such provider or its system. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-
2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-5-12: ENFORCEMENT; RIGHTS OF CITY:
   A.   Enforcement; Remedies:
      1.   City Designee: The city is responsible for enforcing and
administering this chapter and the city or its designee, as appointed by the
mayor or city council, is authorized to give any notice required by law or
under any franchise agreement. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000; amd.
2003 Code)
      2.   Enforcement Provisions: Any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation and
protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures for
accessing the bond/security fund and rights of termination or revocation.
   B.   Force Majeure: In the event a provider's performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this chapter or a franchise is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider's control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this subsection, causes or
events not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation,
acts of God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of
utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies and natural disasters such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides and fires.
   C.   Extended Operation; Continuity Of Services:
      1.   Continuation After Expiration: Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the city shall have discretion
to permit a provider to continue to operate its system or provide services for
an extended period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its system under
the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter.
      2.   Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier; Negotiate Renewal: If the provider
is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   D.   Removal Or Abandonment Of Franchise Property:
      1.   Abandoned System: In the event that: a) the use of any portion of
the system is discontinued for a continuous period of twelve (12) months and
thirty (30) days after no response to written notice from the city to the last
known address of provider; b) any system has been installed in the rights of
way without complying with the requirements of this chapter or franchise; or c)
the provisions of subsection 7-5-5E of this chapter are applicable and no
franchise is granted, a provider, except the provider who is an incumbent local
exchange carrier, shall be deemed to have abandoned such system.
      2.   Removal Of Abandoned System: The city, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system, or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time the
abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights of way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights of way in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The city shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights of way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
chapter and any security fund provided in a franchise shall continue in full
force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a
provider with the terms and conditions of this section.
      3.   Transfer Of Abandoned System To City: Upon abandonment of any system
in place, a provider, if required by the city, shall submit to the city a
written instrument, satisfactory in form to the city, transferring to the city
the ownership of the abandoned system.
      4.   Removal Of Aboveground System: At the expiration of the term for
which a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this chapter, in any such case without renewal, extension or
transfer, the city shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its
expense, all aboveground portions of a system from the rights of way within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one hundred eighty
(180) days. If the provider is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall
not be required to remove its system, but shall negotiate a renewal in good
faith.
      5.   Leaving Underground System: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth in this chapter, a provider may abandon any underground system in
place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the rights of
way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or other
person. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-5-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter is held by any federal, state or local court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid as conflicting with any federal or
state statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in any way in order to
conform to the requirements of any such law and all appellate remedies with
regard to the validity of the ordinance provisions in question are exhausted,
such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct and independent part of
this chapter, and such holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability
of all other provisions hereof. In the event that such law is subsequently
repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so that the provision which
had been held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict with such law, the
provision in question shall return to full force and effect and shall again be
binding on the city and the provider; provided, that the city shall give the
provider thirty (30) days', or a longer period of time as may be reasonably
required for a provider to comply with such a rejuvenated provision, written
notice of the change before requiring compliance with such provision. (Ord.
2000-05, 5-4-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
SEWER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Public Works Department
8-1-2: Use Of System Mandatory
8-1-3: Application For Service
8-1-4: Fees
8-1-5: Statement Of Charges; Delinquency
8-1-6: Installation And Connection To System
8-1-7: Pipe Requirements
8-1-8: Access By Department
8-1-9: Prohibited Uses And Regulations
8-1-10: Penalty
8-1-1: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Creation: The public works department is hereby created. It shall
comprise all of the property, equipment and personnel necessary to the
maintenance and operation of the city's sewage collection and disposal system.
The department shall administer the operation and maintenance of the city sewer
system.
   B.   Public Works Director: There is hereby created the position of public
works director.
   C.   Duties: The public works director shall manage and supervise the city's
sewer system under the direction of the city council, which from time to time
shall by resolution or otherwise, prescribe his powers and duties and direct
the manner and frequency with which he shall make reports to the mayor relating
to the sewer system. (Ord. 2005-08, 8-18-2005, eff. 8-18-2005)
8-1-2: USE OF SYSTEM MANDATORY:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or any other person occupying or having
charge of any premises within the city which are located within three hundred
feet (300') of a sewer main to dispose of sewage therefrom by any means other
than by use of the city sewer system. It shall be unlawful to construct or to
continue the use of any other sewage disposal system such as a privy vault,
cesspool or septic tank on the property, except by written approval of the city
council in cases of undue hardship. (Ord. 2005-08, 8-18-2005, eff. 8-18-2005)
8-1-3: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Agreement: Any person who desires or is required to secure sewer
service when such service is available from the city sewer systems shall apply
therefor to the city recorder or public works director and file an agreement
with the city which shall be on file in the city office.
   B.   Nonowner Applicants: Applications for sewer service made by the tenant
or an owner must, in addition to the above requirement, be guaranteed by an
agreement signed by the owner of the premises or his duly authorized agent in
such form as is on file in the city office.
   C.   Treatment Costs: All costs and expenses associated and incidental to
providing for the required handling and treatment of all sewage including
inflow and infiltration (I/I) shall be borne by all users of the Plain City
public sewer system. (Ord. 2005-08, 8-18-2005, eff. 8-18-2005)
8-1-4: FEES:
   A.   Service Rates And Connection Fees: The sewer service rates, penalty
fees for delinquency in payment and connection fees shall be fixed from time to
time by resolution or ordinance of the city council. The city council may from
time to time enact rules for levying, billing, guaranteeing and collecting
charges for sewer services and all other rules necessary for the management and
control of the sewer system.
   B.   Special Rates: The city council may from time to time fix by agreement
or resolution special rates and conditions upon such terms as they may deem
proper for users of the sewer service discharging wastes of unusual
characteristics or making use thereof under exceptional circumstances.
   C.   Annual Review: The city council shall review the total annual cost of
operation and maintenance and the long term debt service relating to the public
sewer system, not less often than once every year. The user charge system shall
be set so as to be no higher than the level necessary to assure equity of the
system is established, and to assure that sufficient funds are obtained from
the city's user charge system to:
      1.   Adequately operate and maintain the wastewater treatment works;
      2.   Cover debt service; and
      3.   Provide for adequate reserves.
Users will be notified at least annually of any changes to the user charge
system.
   D.   Complaints; Corrections: The city council is hereby constituted a board
of equalization of sewer rates to hear complaints and make corrections of any
assessments or charges deemed to be illegal, unequal or unjust. (Ord. 2005-08,
8-18-2005, eff. 8-18-2005)
8-1-5: STATEMENT OF CHARGES; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Statement: The public works department, or such other person as the
city council may designate, shall furnish to each user or mail or leave at his
place of residence or usual place of business, a written or printed statement
stating the sewer service charges assessed against him once each month or at
such other regular intervals as the city council shall direct. The statement
shall specify the amount of the bill, the place of payment and the date due.
   B.   Notice Of Delinquency: If any person fails to pay his sewer charges
within thirty (30) days of the due date, the city recorder or the public works
director shall give the customer notice in writing of the intent to discontinue
the service of water to the premises unless the customer pays the bill in full
within five (5) days from the date of notice.
   C.   Discontinued Service: If the water service is thereafter discontinued
for failure to make payment of the sewer service charges, before the water
service to the premises shall again be provided, all delinquent sewer charges
must have been paid to the city treasurer or arrangements made for their
payment that are satisfactory to the city.
   D.   Reconnection: In the event water is turned off for nonpayment of sewer
charges, before the water service to the premises shall again be provided, the
customer shall pay, in addition to all delinquent charges, such extra charge
for turning the water on and off as the city council may have established by
resolution or ordinance.
   E.   Interest Charges: The mayor and city council may, at their discretion
and in circumstances that are equitable, impose interest as a penalty at the
highest legal rate on all past due accounts either for connection fees, user
charges, maintenance, repair, or any other legally imposed charges as
authorized by this chapter.
   F.   Legal Proceedings: If any person fails to pay his sewer charges within
thirty (30) days of the due date, the city recorder or the public works
director is hereby authorized to take all action necessary to enforce
collection, including, but not limited to, the commencement of legal
proceedings in a court of proper jurisdiction seeking judgment for the amount
of the delinquent fees and service charges and all costs of collection,
including court costs and attorney fees. (Ord. 2005-08, 8-18-2005, eff. 8-18-
2005)
8-1-6: INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION TO SYSTEM:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to directly or
indirectly engage in the laying, repairing, altering or connecting of any drain
or sewer pipe connected with or part of the city sewer system without first
having received a permit from the office of the city recorder or the public
works director.
   B.   Licensed Plumber; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person to
connect any drain or sewer pipe with the city sewer system unless the person is
a duly licensed plumber or unless, in the absence of a duly licensed plumber,
any proposed connection to, alteration of or change of connection to the sewer
system shall be first submitted to the public works director for review and
approval. After such approval, the installation or work done shall be subject
to inspection by the public works director or his agent.
   C.   Connection To Basement: In order to determine the feasibility of
connecting a basement or proposed basement to the sanitary sewer, the owner or
plumber may make application for a trial sewer survey, the cost of which shall
be as established from time to time by resolution of the city council. The
result of a trial sewer survey shall not constitute a permit to connect to the
sewer and is merely for information purposes.
   D.   Plumbing Requirements: Permits to connect to the city sewer system
shall not be issued unless the plumbing in the house or building to be
connected is in accordance with the provisions of the building and plumbing
codes of the city.
   E.   Revocation Of Permit: All construction permits for sewer connections or
installations shall be issued to the plumber who is to do the work or to the
owner of the property, subject to the supervision and inspection by the public
works director or his agents. The city recorder or public works director may at
any time revoke a permit because of defective work or because of undue delay in
completing the permitted work. (Ord. 2005-08, 8-18-2005, eff. 8-18-2005)
8-1-7: PIPE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Good Repair: All users of the sewer services shall keep their service
pipes, connections and other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost
at their own expense. No person, except under the direction of the public works
director, shall be allowed to dig into the street for the purpose of removing
or repairing any sewer service pipe or main.
   B.   Quality Of Service Pipe: All service and other pipes used in
conjunction with the sewer services of the city shall be of such material,
quality and specifications as the city council may from time to time by
resolution provide, and shall be installed at such distances belowground as may
be specified by regulations relating to the public works department. All work,
alterations or extensions affecting sewer pipes shall be subject to the
acceptance of the public works director, and no connections with sewer mains
shall be made without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city recorder
or public works director. (Ord. 2005-08, 8-18-2005, eff. 8-18-2005)
8-1-8: ACCESS BY DEPARTMENT:
The public works director and his agents shall at all ordinary hours have free
access to places supplied with sewer services from the city system for the
purpose of examining the apparatus, ascertaining the sewer service being used
and the manner of its use. (Ord. 2005-08, 8-18-2005, eff. 8-18-2005)
8-1-9: PROHIBITED USES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Scope: The city council shall have power to and retains the right to
adopt regulations controlling the manner and circumstances under which the
sewer system may be used in addition to the regulatory provisions set forth
expressly in this chapter.
   B.   Inflammables: It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, break or
remove any part or portion of any sewer appliance or appurtenance, or to
discharge into a sewer any inflammable gas, gasoline or oil, any calcium
carbide or residue therefrom, or any liquid or other materials or substance
which will emit an inflammable gas when in contact with water, sewage or fire.
Oil separators installed in any building where volatile fluids are used must
not be connected directly or indirectly with a sewer.
   C.   Excess Residential Waste: Unless permitted, it shall be unlawful for
any person to discharge, or cause to be discharged into the public sewer
system, waste that is deemed by the city to be in excess, or abnormal from that
expected from a typical residential user. Abnormal residential discharge
includes, but may not be limited to, excess flow, excess total suspended solids
(TSS), and excess biological oxygen demand (BOD). Discharge of these wastes may
be permitted if additional charges and/or conditions are imposed by the city.
   D.   Waste From Certain Establishments: The contents of waste pipes from
water filters, gas engines, air compressors, vacuum or dry cleaners, garages,
wash racks, stores or warehouses containing inflammable substances, car barns,
buildings for the stabling or keeping of horses, cows and other animals, or
plants using milk or processing milk products, shall not be disposed of through
connection with a sanitary sewer, unless such contents are discharged into
settling tanks properly trapped and vented. The construction of such tanks must
be approved by the city engineer, and must be subject to his inspection,
approval or condemnation before cement is poured and at all times thereafter
until completion of such construction. Upon condemnation by the city engineer,
the sewage from the tanks shall not be allowed to flow into the sewer until
satisfactory alterations have been made and the construction approved by the
city engineer.
   E.   Obstructive Materials: It shall be unlawful for any person to empty or
discharge into the public sanitary sewer any garbage, refuse or other similar
matter or substance likely to obstruct the sewer, or any substance, solid or
liquid other than the waste products for which the sewer is provided.
   F.   Drainage Waters And Destructive Materials: It shall be unlawful for any
person to connect with a public sanitary sewer any drain or pipe which
discharges rainwater, cellar or surface water, acids, alkalis, lye or other
injurious liquids, or the contents of any spring, flowing well, creek, ditch or
other watercourses. No boiler or heating plant shall be directly connected to
the sanitary sewer. The overflow from boilers or heating plants, when cooled to
a temperature not to exceed one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120°F), will
be allowed to run to a sump, which sump shall be connected to the sewer. The
discharge of the contents of waste pipes from water filters, gas engines, air
compressors, vacuum or dry cleaners, garages, wash racks, stores or warehouses
which contain inflammable substances, buildings for the stabling or keeping of
horses, cows and other animals, and all similar establishments, shall not be
made into or connected with a sanitary sewer, unless such contents are
discharged into settling tanks properly trapped and vented. Settling tanks
shall be constructed of a material approved by the public works director and
shall be at all times subject to his inspection and approval or condemnation.
Upon condemnation by the public works director, the sewage from said tanks
shall not be allowed to flow into sewer until satisfactory alterations have
been made and the construction approved by the public works director.
   G.   Control Of Harmful Waste: If any water or wastes are discharged, or are
proposed to be discharged to the public sewer system, which contain the
substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in this section, or which
are determined by the city to have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to and acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
this chapter. If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization or waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to review and approval of the city.
   H.   Destruction Of System: It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy,
deface, injure or interfere with the operation of any part or appurtenance of
the sewer system.
   I.   Ownership Of Connecting Lines: Unless a provision is expressly made for
ownership of mains or lines by the owner of the adjacent property by means of
written agreement, all lines and mains connecting the sewer system to a
landowner's or resident's premises which are situated on the public way between
the main and the property line shall be deemed to be the property of the city
and subject to its absolute control and supervision even though actual
installation may have been performed by the owner or resident of the premises.
   J.   Sewer Manholes: It shall be unlawful for any person to open any sewer
manhole without permission from the public works director. (Ord. 2005-08, 8-18-
2005, eff. 8-18-2005)
8-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. If any violation be continued, each day's violation shall
be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2009-04, 5-7-2009, eff. 5-7-2009)
CHAPTER 2
STORM SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Storm Sewer Utility
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Storm Sewer Utility Facilities And Costs
8-2-4: Storm Sewer Utility Fee
8-2-5: Sewer And Storm Sewer Impact Fee
8-2-1: STORM SEWER UTILITY:
   A.   The name of the storm sewer utility shall be the Plain City water and
sewer utilities division, hereinafter referred to in this chapter as the storm
sewer utility. The storm sewer utility shall plan, design, construct, cause to
be constructed, maintain, administer, regulate and operate the storm sewer
system in Plain City.
   B.   The storm sewer utility enterprise fund is hereby established to
receive all income and pay all necessary expenses relating to the storm sewer
utility. All funds received by the storm sewer utility shall be deposited in
the storm sewer utility enterprise fund. Funds in the storm sewer utility
enterprise fund shall not be commingled with other city funds. However, the
storm sewer utility may pay or transfer to other city funds for services and
expenses attributable to the storm sewer utility and its operations. The storm
sewer utility enterprise fund shall operate independently from other city
operations and funds.
   C.   The public works superintendent shall supervise the operation of the
storm sewer utility. (Ord. 2003-003, 5-15-2003)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter and in use with any resolution regarding fees of
the storm sewer utility, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section. The words
"shall" and "will" are mandatory, the word "may" is permissive. Words not
herein defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
DETENTION POND: A detention basin or retarding basin is an excavated area
installed on, or adjacent to, tributaries of rivers, streams, lakes or bays to
protect against flooding and, in some cases, downstream erosion by storing
water for a limited period of time. These basins are also called “dry ponds,”
“holding ponds” or “dry detention basins” if no permanent pool of water exists.
Detention ponds that are designed to permanently retain some volume of water at
all times are called retention basins. In its basic form, a detention basin is
used to manage water quantity while having a limited effectiveness in
protecting water quality, unless it includes a permanent pool feature.
DEVELOPED PARCEL: Any parcel of land that has been altered from its natural
condition by grading, filling, through the construction of improvements or
construction of impervious surfaces of any kind.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU): Three thousand (3,000) square feet of
impervious surface, or the approximate amount of impervious surface, expressed
in square feet, on developed single-family residential parcels in Plain City.
LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Engineered systems, either structural or natural, that use or mimic
natural processes to promote infiltration, evapotranspiration, and/or reuse of
storm water as close to its source as possible to protect water quality and
aquatic habitat low impact development (LID) means an approach to stormwater
management that mimics a site’s natural hydrology as the landscape is
developed. Using low impact development approach, stormwater is managed on-site
and the rate and volume of predevelopment stormwater reaching receiving waters
is unchanged. The calculation of predevelopment hydrology is based on native
soil and vegetation.
   B.   Low impact development principles complement, and sometimes replace,
traditional stormwater management systems, which historically emphasized moving
stormwater off- site with curbs, pipes, ditches and ponds.
   C.   Green infrastructure is an approach to wet weather management that is
cost-effective, sustainable, and environmentally friendly. Green infrastructure
management approaches and technologies infiltrate, evapotranspiration, capture
and reuse stormwater to maintain or restore natural hydrologists. The terms
“low impact development” and “green infrastructure” are used interchangeably.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surface, other than the parcel's natural surface,
that prevents or retards the absorption of water into the soil or that causes
water to run off the surface in greater quantities or at a greater rate of flow
than the natural surface.
RETENTION POND: All the water runs out between storms and it usually remains
dry. A retention basin or pond has a riser and orifice at a higher point and
therefore retains a permanent pool of water. A retention pond looks like a
regular pond, but plays an important role in controlling stormwater runoff.
STORM DRAINAGE: Water produced by a natural storm such as rain, snow, sleet,
etc.
STORM SEWER SYSTEM: The system of pipes, collection boxes, forebays, oil/water
separators, basins, or other manufactured or installed improvements required
and designed to collect and drain water produced by storms or ground water.
(Ord. 2003-003, 5-15-2003; amd. Ord. 2020-10, 10-15-2020)
8-2-3: STORM SEWER UTILITY FACILITIES AND COSTS:
   A.   All currently existing storm sewer facilities and associated assets are
transferred to the storm sewer utility. In return, the storm sewer utility
shall assume the responsibility for planning, designing, constructing,
maintaining, administering, and operating the storm sewer system.
   B.   All storm sewer improvements subsequently constructed shall be planned,
designed, constructed, maintained, administered, and operated by the storm
sewer utility. (Ord. 2003-003, 5-15-2003)
8-2-4: STORM SEWER UTILITY FEE:
The schedule of rates, fees, and procedures for billing for storm sewer
services provided by the storm sewer utility shall be established by resolution
of the Plain City council. (Ord. 2003-003, 5-15-2003)
8-2-5: SEWER AND STORM SEWER IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Service Areas Established: The city council and the data contained in
the city's sewer and storm sewer capital facilities plans, together with the
applicable requirements of state law, the city council finds that there should
be, and there are hereby established, sewer and storm sewer impact service
areas which areas are described by the geographic boundary of the city of Plain
City, Utah, as presently constituted and as those boundaries may, from time to
time, be lawfully modified.
   B.   Sewer Impact Fee Enacted: The city council finds that there should be,
and there is hereby enacted a sewer impact fee for the above established sewer
impact service area beginning August 16, 2006, together with a storm sewer
impact fee for new homes beginning immediately for the above established storm
sewer impact service area, said fees having been determined to comport as
required with applicable law and the findings of the sewer and storm sewer
capital facilities plans. (Ord. 2006-14, 7-6-2006, eff. 7-6-2006)
ARTICLE A. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Findings
8-2A-2: Purpose
8-2A-3: Definitions
8-2A-4: Stormwater Construction Activity Permit
8-2A-4-1: When Required
8-2A-4-2: Application
8-2A-4-3: Proper Operation And Maintenance
8-2A-4-4: Inspection And Entry
8-2A-4-5: Revocation Or Suspension
8-2A-4-6: Appeals
8-2A-5: Prohibited Activities
8-2A-6: Mud, Dirt And Debris On City Streets
8-2A-7: Requirement To Prevent, Control, And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants
8-2A-8: Violations And Enforcement
8-2A-9: Compliance With Federal And State Law
8-2A-10: Notification Of Spills
8-2A-11: Authority To Inspect
8-2A-12: Storm Sewer System Low Impact Development (LID); Findings
8-2A-12-1: Purpose
8-2A-12-2: Stormwater Pollution Control Measures For Development
8-2A-1: FINDINGS:
The Plain City council makes the following findings regarding stormwater runoff
and the city's storm sewer system:
   A.   The federal water pollution control act (33 USC 1251 et seq.)
(hereinafter the "act") and any subsequent amendments thereto, requires the
city to create and enforce a program for managing stormwater within the
boundaries of the city to ensure that waters passing through or originating in
the city are not polluted in violation of the act.
   B.   Compliance with the act requires the city to create a stormwater
management control ordinance.
   C.   The city's existing storm sewer system consists of a network of manmade
and natural facilities, structures and conduits, that collect and route
stormwater runoff.
   D.   Uncontrolled or inadequately controlled stormwater runoff causes
erosion and property damage.
   E.   Uncontrolled or inadequately controlled stormwater runoff hinders the
city's ability to provide emergency services to its residents.
   F.   Uncontrolled or inadequately controlled stormwater runoff impedes the
regular flow of traffic in the city.
   G.   Uncontrolled or inadequately controlled stormwater runoff poses health
hazards to the citizens of the community.
   H.   Stormwater runoff carries concentrations of oil, grease, nutrients,
chemicals, heavy metals, toxic materials and other undesirable materials that
may jeopardize the integrity of groundwaters and receiving waters.
   I.   All developed properties in the city contribute to the need for the
storm sewer system by converting natural ground cover into impervious surfaces.
   J.   All developed properties in the city make use of or benefit from the
city's operation and maintenance of the storm sewer system.
   K.   Absent effective maintenance, operation, regulation and control,
existing stormwater drainage conditions in the city constitute a potential
hazard to the health, safety and general welfare of the city, its residents,
and its businesses. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006, eff. 1-19-2006)
8-2A-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this article is to ensure the health, safety, and
general welfare of citizens, and protect and enhance the water quality of
watercourses and water bodies in a manner pursuant to and consistent with the
federal clean water act (33 USC 1251 et seq.) by reducing pollutants in
stormwater discharges to the maximum extent practicable and by prohibiting
nonstormwater discharges to the storm drain system. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006,
eff. 1-19-2006)
8-2A-3: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions applicable to this article include the following:
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): A wide range of management procedures,
schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and
other management practices which have been demonstrated to effectively control
the quality and/or quantity of stormwater runoff and which are compatible with
the planned land use. BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating
procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or
water disposal, or drainage from raw material storage.
BIOFILTRATION: A LID BMP that reduces stormwater pollutant discharges by
intercepting rainfall on vegetative canopy, and through incidental infiltration
and/or evapotranspiration, and filtration. Incidental infiltration is an
important factor in achieving the required pollutant load reduction. Therefore,
the term “biofiltration” as used in this chapter is defined to include only
systems designed to facilitate incidental infiltration or achieve the
equivalent pollutant reduction as biofiltration BMPs with an underdrain
(subject to approval by city rep. and/or city engineer). Biofiltration BMPs
include bioretention systems with an underdrain and bioswales (modified from
[text missing]).
BIORETENTION: A LID BMP that reduces stormwater runoff by intercepting rainfall
on vegetative canopy, and through evapotranspiration and infiltration. The
bioretention system typically includes a minimum two-foot top layer of a
specified soil and compost mixture underlain by a gravel-filled temporary
storage pit dug into the in-situ soil. As defined in the Municipal NPDES
permit, a bioretention BMP may be designed with an overflow drain, but may not
include an underdrain. When a bioretention BMP is designed or constructed with
an underdrain it is regulated by the Municipal NPDES permit as biofiltration.
BIOSWALE: A LID BMP consisting of a shallow channel lined with grass or other
dense, low-growing vegetation. Bioswales are designed to collect stormwater
runoff and to achieve a uniform sheet flow through the dense vegetation for a
period of several minutes.
CITY: Plain City.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC 1251 et seq.),
and any subsequent amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Activities subject to national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) construction permits. These include construction
projects resulting in land disturbance of one (1) acre or more. Such activities
include, but are not limited to, clearing, grubbing, grading, excavating and
demolition.
CONTROL: To minimize, reduce or eliminate by technological, legal, contractual,
or other means, the discharge of pollutants from an activity or activities.
DEBRIS: Any dirt, rock, sand, vegetation, rubbish or litter.
DETENTION POND: A detention basin or retarding basin is an excavated area
installed on, or adjacent to, tributaries of rivers, streams, lakes or bays to
protect against flooding and, in some cases, downstream erosion by storing
water for a limited period of time. These basins are also called “dry ponds,”
“holding ponds” or “dry detention basins” if no permanent pool of water exists.
Detention ponds that are designed to permanently retain some volume of water at
all times are called retention basins. In its basic form, a detention basin is
used to manage water quantity while having a limited effectiveness in
protecting water quality, unless it includes a permanent pool feature.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, site preparation, filling, grading, paving,
excavation, and construction of buildings or other structures. Construction,
rehabilitation, redevelopment or reconstruction of any public or private
residential project (whether single-family, multi-unit or planned unit
development); industrial, commercial, retail, and other non-residential
projects, including public agency projects; or mass grading for future
construction. It does not include routine maintenance to maintain original line
and grade, hydraulic capacity, or original purpose of facility, nor does it
include emergency construction activities required to immediately protect
public health and safety.
DIRECTOR: The public works director of Plain City or his duly appointed deputy,
agent, or representative.
DISTURB AREA: To alter the physical condition, natural terrain or vegetation of
land by clearing, grubbing, grading, excavating, filling, building or other
construction activity. Flow-through BMPs means modular, vault type “high flow
biotreatment” devices contained within an impervious vault with an underdrain
or designed with an impervious liner and an underdrain.
DRAIN INLET: A point of entry into a sump, detention basin, or storm drain
system.
DIRECTLY ADJACENT: Situated within two hundred feet (200') of the contiguous
zone required for the continued maintenance, function, and structural stability
of the environmentally sensitive area. Discharge means any release, spill,
leak, pump, flow, escape, dumping, or disposal of any liquid, semi- solid, or
solid substance.
GASOLINE OUTLET: Any facility engaged in selling gasoline and lubricating oils.
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES STORM WATER PERMIT: The general NPDES permit
adopted by the State Board which authorizes the discharge of stormwater from
construction activities under certain conditions.
GENERAL INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES STORM WATER PERMIT: The general NPDES permit
adopted by the State Board which authorizes the discharge of stormwater from
certain industrial activities under certain conditions.
GREEN ROOF: A LID BMP using planter boxes and vegetation to intercept rainfall
on the roof surface. Rainfall is intercepted by vegetation leaves and through
evapotranspiration. Green roofs may be designed as either a bioretention BMP or
as a biofiltration BMP. To receive credit as a bioretention BMP, the green roof
system planting medium shall be of sufficient depth to provide capacity within
the pore space volume to contain the design storm depth and may not be designed
or constructed with an underdrain. Green infrastructure is an approach to wet
weather management that is cost-effective, sustainable, and environmentally
friendly. Green infrastructure management approaches and technologies
infiltrate, evapotranspiration, capture and reuse stormwater to maintain or
restore natural hydrologists. The terms “low impact development” and “green
infrastructure” are used interchangeably.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
HILLSIDE: A property located in an area with known erosive soil conditions,
where the development contemplates grading on any natural slope that is twenty-
five percent (25%) or greater and where grading contemplates cut or fill
slopes.
HYDROMODIFICATION: The alteration of the hydrologic characteristics of coastal
and noncoastal waters, which in turn could cause degradation of water
resources. Hydromodification can cause excessive erosion and/or sedimentation
rates, causing excessive turbidity, channel aggradation and/or degradation.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any man-made or modified surface that prevents or
significantly reduces the entry of water into the underlying soil, resulting in
runoff from the surface in greater quantities and/or at an increased rate, when
compared to natural conditions prior to development. Examples of places that
commonly exhibit impervious surfaces include parking lots, driveways, roadways,
storage areas, and rooftops. The imperviousness of these areas commonly results
from paving, compacted gravel, compacted earth, and oiled earth.
INDUSTRIAL PARK: Land development that is set aside for industrial development.
Industrial parks are usually located close to transport facilities, especially
where more than one (1) transport modalities coincide: highways, railroads,
airports, and navigable rivers. It includes office parks, which have offices
and light industry.
INFILTRATION BMP: A LID BMP that reduces stormwater runoff by capturing and
infiltrating the runoff into in-situ soils or amended onsite soils. Examples of
infiltration BMPs include infiltration basins, dry wells, and pervious
pavement.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the storm
drain system, except as exempted in section
8-2A-5 of this article.
ILLICIT CONNECTION: Either of the following:
   A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
limited to, any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharge including
sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by a government agency; or
   B.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by the city.
LID (LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT): LID consists of building and landscape features
designed to retain or filter stormwater runoff.
LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT: Engineered systems, either structural or natural, that
use or mimic natural processes to promote infiltration, evapotranspiration,
and/or reuse of storm water as close to its source as possible to protect water
quality and aquatic habitat. Low impact development (LID) means an approach to
stormwater management that mimics a site’s natural hydrology as the landscape
is developed. Using low impact development approach, stormwater is managed on-
site and the rate and volume of predevelopment stormwater reaching receiving
waters is unchanged. The calculation of predevelopment hydrology is based on
native soil and vegetation. Low impact development principles complement, and
sometimes replace, traditional stormwater management systems, which
historically emphasized moving stormwater off-site with curbs, pipes, ditches
and ponds.
MS4 (MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM): The MS4 is a conveyance or system
of conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains):
   A.   Owned or operated by a State, city, town, borough, county, parish,
district, association, or other public body (created by or pursuant to State
law) having jurisdiction over disposal of sewage, industrial wastes,
stormwater, or other wastes, including special districts under State law such
as a sewer district, flood control district or drainage district, or similar
entity, or an Indian tribe or an authorized Indian tribal organization, or a
designated and approved management agency that discharges to waters of the
State;
   B.   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
   C.   Which is not a combined sewer; and
   D.   Which is not part of a publicly owned treatment works.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
PARKING LOT: Land area or facility for the parking or storage of motor vehicles
used for businesses, commerce, industry, or personal use, with a lot size of
five thousand (5,000) square feet or more of surface area, or with twenty-five
(25) or more parking spaces.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES): The national program
for issuing, modifying, revoking and reissuing, terminating, monitoring and
enforcing permits, and imposing and enforcing pretreatment requirements. The
term includes an “approved program.”
NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM: A drainage system that has not been improved (e.g.
channelized or armored). The clearing or dredging of a natural drainage system
does not cause the system to be classified as an improved drainage system.
NEW DEVELOPMENT: Land disturbing activities; structural development, including
construction or installation of a building or structure, creation of impervious
surfaces; and land subdivision.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, company or body
politic, including any agency of the state of Utah and the United States
government.
PLANNING PRIORITY PROJECTS: Development projects subject to permittee
conditioning and approval for the design and implementation of post-
construction controls to mitigate stormwater pollution, prior to completion of
the project(s).
POLLUTANT: Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, industrial, municipal and agricultural waste, paints,
varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid
and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other
discarded or abandoned objects, articles, and accumulations, that may cause or
contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides; herbicides and fertilizers;
hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens;
dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that
result from constructing a building or structure (including, but not limited
to, sediments, slurries, and concrete resinates); and noxious or offensive
matter of any kind.
POLLUTION: The humanmade or human induced alteration of the quality of waters
by waste to a degree which unreasonably affect, either the waters for the
beneficial users or the facilities which serve these beneficial uses.
PROJECT: All development, redevelopment, and land disturbing activities. The
term is not limited to “project.”
RAINFALL HARVEST: A LID BMP system designed to capture runoff, typically from a
roof but can also include runoff capture from elsewhere within the site, and to
provide for temporary storage until the harvested water can be used for
irrigation or non-potable uses. The harvested water may also be used for
potable water uses if the system includes disinfection treatment and is
approved for such use by the local building department.
RECEIVING WATER: “Water of the United States” into which waste and/or
pollutants are or may be discharged.
REDEVELOPMENT: Land-disturbing activity that results in the creation, addition,
or replacement of five thousand (5,000) square feet or more of impervious
surface area on an already developed site. Redevelopment includes, but is not
limited to: the expansion of a building footprint; addition or replacement of a
structure; replacement of impervious surface area that is not part of routine
maintenance activity; and land disturbing activity related to structural or
impervious surfaces. It does not include routine maintenance to maintain
original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, or original purpose of facility,
nor does it include emergency construction activities required to immediately
protect public health and safety.
RETENTION POND: All the water runs out between storms and it usually remains
dry. A retention basin or pond has a riser and orifice at a higher point and
therefore retains a permanent pool of water. A retention pond looks like a
regular pond, but plays an important role in controlling stormwater runoff.
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE: Routine maintenance projects include, but are not limited
to projects conducted to:
   A.   Maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, or original
purpose of the facility.
   B.   Perform as needed restoration work to preserve the original design
grade, integrity and hydraulic capacity of flood control facilities.
   C.   Includes road shoulder work, regrading dirt or gravel roadways and
shoulders and performing ditch cleanouts.
   D.   Update existing lines* and facilities to comply with applicable codes,
standards, and regulations regardless if such projects result in increased
capacity.
   E.   Repair leaks.
Routine maintenance does not include construction of new** lines or facilities
resulting from compliance with applicable codes, standards and regulations.
* Update existing lines includes replacing existing lines with new materials or
pipes.
** New lines are those that are not associated with existing facilities and are
not part of a project to update or replace existing lines.
SIGNIFICANT ECOLOGICAL AREAS: An area that is determined to possess an example
of biotic resources that cumulatively represent biological diversity, for the
purposes of protecting biotic diversity, as part of the State's general plan.
Areas are designated as SEAs, if they possess one or more of the following
criteria:
   A.   The habitat of rare, endangered, and threatened plant and animal
species.
   B.   Biotic communities, vegetative associations, and habitat of plant and
animal species that are either one of a kind, or are restricted in distribution
on a regional basis.
   C.   Biotic communities, vegetative associations, and habitat of plant and
animal species that are either one of a kind or are restricted in distribution
in Weber County.
   D.   Habitat that at some point in the life cycle of a species or group of
species, serves as a concentrated breeding, feeding, resting, migrating grounds
and is limited in availability either regionally or within Weber County.
   E.   Biotic resources that are of scientific interest because they are
either an extreme in physical/geographical limitations, or represent an unusual
variation in a population or community.
   F.   Areas important as game species habitat or as fisheries.
   G.   Areas that would provide for the preservation of relatively undisturbed
examples of natural biotic communities in Weber County.
   H.   Special areas.
SITE: Land or water area where any "facility or activity" is physically located
or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the facility or
activity.
STORM DRAIN: A closed, or open conduit for conducting collected stormwater.
STORM SEWER SYSTEM: The system of conveyances (including sidewalks, roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, detention basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, manmade channels, sumps, storm drains, and groundwater) owned
and operated by the city, which is designed and used for collecting or
conveying stormwater.
STORMWATER: Any flow that occurs during or following any form of natural
precipitation. Stormwater includes only the portion of such flow that is
composed of precipitation.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: Water that is generated by stormwater flows over land.
STORMWATER QUALITY DESIGN VOLUME: (SWQDV).
SWMP (STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN): The SWMP was required as part of the
previous Municipal UPDES Permit No. UTR090000. UPDES and required plans that
designate best management practices (BMPs) that must be used in specified
categories of development projects.
WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES: Surface watercourses and water bodies as defined
by federal and Utah code including all natural waterways and definite channels
and depressions in the earth that may carry water, even though such waterways
may only carry water during rains and storms and may not carry water at and
during all times and seasons. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006, eff. 1-19-2006; amd.
Ord. 2011-04, 3-3-2011, eff. 3-4-2011; Ord. 2020-10, 10-15-2020)
8-2A-4: STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY PERMIT:
The purpose of the Plain City stormwater construction activity permit is to
prevent the discharge of sediment and other construction related pollutants
from construction sites. Sediment and debris from construction sites are a
major source of pollution to waterways and water systems located within the
city and surrounding areas. Each year stormwater runoff carries tons of
sediment from construction sites into local drainage systems, irrigation
systems, canals, drainage channels and sloughs. Sediment from stormwater runoff
also clogs and obstructs storm drains, culverts, and channels and causes damage
to private property, wildlife habitat and water quality. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-
2006, eff. 1-19-2006)
8-2A-4-1: WHEN REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: A Plain City stormwater construction activity permit
is required before any person or entity may landscape, excavate, grub and
clear, grade, or perform any type of construction activity that will disrupt or
cause a change in the natural landscape upon any parcel of property located in
the city.
   B.   Exemptions: The following activities are exempt from the permit
requirements of this section
8-2A-4:
      1.   Actions by a public utility, the city, or any other governmental
entity to remove or alleviate an emergency condition, including the restoration
of utility service or the reopening of a public thoroughfare to traffic;
      2.   Actions by any other person when the city determines, and documents
in writing, that the actions are necessary to remove or alleviate an emergency
condition;
      3.   Unless part of a common plan of development, residential
construction activities disturbing less than five thousand (5,000) square feet
of land surface area. All individual activities are subject to review, and
inspection by the public works department;
      4.   Residential landscaping activities disturbing less than eleven
thousand four hundred (11,400) square feet of land surface area;
      5.   Residential gardening;
      6.   Bona fide agricultural and farming operations, provided that the
agricultural and farming operations constitute the principal use of the parcel
and provided that such use of the parcel does not conflict with the city's
zoning ordinance;
      7.   Plain City capital improvement projects, provided that storm runoff
control measures are included in the bid specifications and plans for the
special improvement project. (Ord. 2011-04, 3-3-2011, eff. 3-4-2011)
8-2A-4-2: APPLICATION:
Any person or entity desiring a stormwater construction activity permit must
first file an application with the public works department. A complete
application shall include the following:
   A.   Application Form: The application shall be submitted on a form approved
by the city. If the applicant proposes to obtain the permit in conjunction with
another development activity requiring city approval (e.g., building permit,
subdivision plat, site plan, or conditional use permit), the application for
the stormwater construction activity permit will be included as part of the
application form for the other development activity. If the applicant proposes
to obtain the permit independent of any other city approval, the applicant
shall apply for the permit on a separate form prepared by the city. Application
forms will be available at the public works department office.
   B.   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan: The applicant shall submit a
stormwater pollution prevention plan with the application. The stormwater
pollution prevention plan (the plan) shall comply with the requirements listed
in the application form and contain the following information:
      1.   Site Description: A site description (including a map with spot
elevations and contour lines) which includes a description of the nature and
location of the construction activity, a description of the intended sequence
of major activities which will disturb soils for major portions of the site
(e.g., grubbing, excavation, grading, utilities, and infrastructure
installation, etc.), and estimates of the total area of the site and the total
area of the site that is expected to be disturbed by excavation, grading, or
other activities.
      2.   Control Description: A description of the proposed control measures
that will be implemented during construction activity and/or while the site is
not stable. The plan must clearly describe the times during the construction
process that the measures will be implemented for each major activity
identified pursuant to subsection B1 of this section. The plan shall also state
the name, address and phone number of the person or entity responsible for
implementation of each control measure.
      3.   Control Measures: Control measures meeting the following goals and
criteria:
         a.   Prevent Or Minimize Discharge: The proposed control measures
shall be designed to prevent or minimize, to the maximum extent practicable,
the discharge of sediment, debris and other construction related pollutants
from the construction site by stormwater runoff into the storm drainage system.
         b.   Prevent Or Minimize Construction Debris: The proposed control
measures shall be designed to prevent or minimize, to the maximum extent
practicable, the deposit, discharge, tracking by construction vehicles, or
dropping of mud, sediment, debris or other potential pollutants onto public
streets and rights of way.
         c.   Use Of BMPs: The proposed control measures shall include best
management practices (BMPs) available at the time that the plan is submitted.
BMPs may include, but shall not be limited to, temporary silt or sediment
fences, sediment traps and detention ponds, gravel construction entrances and
wash down pads to reduce or eliminate off site tracking, straw bale sediment
barriers, establishment of temporary grasses and permanent vegetative cover,
use of straw mulch as a temporary ground cover, erosion control blankets,
temporary interceptor dikes and swales, storm drain inlet protection, check
dams, subsurface drains, pipe slope drains, level spreaders, rock outlet
protection, reinforced soil retaining systems, and gabions.
         d.   Stabilize Site: The proposed control measures shall be designed
to preserve existing vegetation, where possible. Disturbed portions of the site
shall be stabilized. Stabilization practices may include temporary seeding,
permanent seeding, mulching, geotextiles, sod stabilization, vegetative buffer
strips, protection of trees, preservation of mature vegetation, and other
appropriate measures. Use of impervious surfaces for stabilization should be
avoided. Stabilization measures shall be initiated as soon as practicable in
disturbed portions of the site where construction activities have temporarily
or permanently ceased, but in no case more than fourteen (14) days after the
construction activity in that portion of the site has temporarily or
permanently ceased, except under the following circumstances:
            (1)   If the initiation of stabilization measures by the fourteenth
day after construction activity temporarily or permanently ceases is precluded
by snow cover or frozen ground conditions, stabilization measures shall be
initiated as soon as practicable; or
            (2)   If construction activity on a portion of the site is
temporarily ceased, and earth disturbing will resume within twenty one (21)
days, temporary stabilization measures need not be initiated on that portion of
the site.
         e.   Minimize Risk Of Discharge Of Other Materials: The proposed
control measures shall be employed to minimize the risk of discharge of
construction related pollutants (such as fuels, lubricants, paint, thinners,
solvents and other chemicals) from the construction site. Such measures may
include implementation of storage practices to minimize exposure of the
material to stormwater as well as spill prevention and response.
      4.   Submittal Of Application: As part of the stormwater construction
activities permit, the application for a project with an anticipated disturbed
area of greater than or equal to one acre, including projects less than one
acre that are part of a common plan of development, must submit a completed
stormwater permit for construction activities permit application. If a project
is greater than or equal to five (5) acres and an erosivity permit is obtained
from the state of Utah division of water quality, a copy of the waiver should
be included with the application.
      5.   Timing For Filing Application: If an applicant's project comes under
more than one of the categories listed below, then the applicant shall submit
the stormwater construction activity permit application on the earliest of the
listed dates. Failure to comply with the application dates set forth above is
not a criminal offense, but may delay the applicant's project. Failure to
acquire a required stormwater construction activity permit is grounds for
denying a related subdivision application, site plan application, conditional
use permit application, or building permit application. It is unlawful to
commence work (move soil) on a development site before obtaining a required
stormwater construction activity permit. The applicant shall file the
application on or before the following dates:
         a.   Subdivision: The date that the applicant submits the preliminary
subdivision plat application if the applicant proposes to develop a
subdivision.
         b.   Site Plan: The date that the applicant submits a site plan
application if the applicant proposes to develop a site plan or amended site
plan.
         c.   Conditional Use Permit: The date that the applicant submits a
conditional use permit application if the applicant proposes to develop a
conditional use.
         d.   Building Permit: The date that the applicant submits a building
permit application if the applicant proposes to construct a building on an
existing lot or parcel.
         e.   Other: At least one week before the developer intends to perform
any type of work not listed above that would require a stormwater construction
activity permit pursuant to this article.
      6.   Fee: The applicant for a stormwater construction activity permit
shall pay a fee in an amount set by resolution of the city council.
      7.   Application Approval: The public works director shall approve the
application and grant the permit if the application is complete and the
stormwater pollution prevention plan meets the requirements of this article.
The public works director shall deny the application or approve the application
with conditions if he or she determines that the measures proposed in the plan
fail to meet the criteria set forth in subsection B3 of this section.
Conditions the public works director may impose in connection with the approval
of a permit include, but are not limited to, the establishment of specific
measures and controls to prevent erosion and the discharge of sediment, debris
and other construction related pollutants from the site by stormwater.
      8.   Term: Unless otherwise revoked or suspended, a stormwater
construction activity permit shall be in effect for the full period of the
construction activity. The construction activity will not be considered to be
completed until the following events occur:
         a.   Subdivisions: For permits associated with a subdivision plat
approval:
            (1)   The permittee must complete all required subdivision
improvements; and
            (2)   One of the following three (3) events must occur:
               (A) The city issues a final certificate of occupancy for each
lot in the subdivision, or
               (B) Individual stormwater construction activity permits have
been issued for each lot in the subdivision not having a final occupancy
permit, or
               (C) The property has been revegetated or landscaped in a manner
that eliminates erosion and sediment discharge or that brings the property back
to its natural state.
         b.   Site Plans: For permits associated with a site plan approval, the
date that the permittee has completed all required landscaping and all outside
construction work associated with the site plan.
         c.   Building Permits: For permits associated with a building permit
application, the date that the city issues a final occupancy permit for the
structure covered by the building permit.
         d.   Other: For permits issued that are not tied to other approvals
from the city, the date that the permittee has completed all work associated
with the permit and takes steps required by the permit to prevent further
erosion and runoff from the site.
   C.   Notice Of Termination: No stormwater construction activity permit shall
be considered terminated until the permittee submits a notice of termination of
construction activity permit ("notice") to the state of Utah division of water
quality and the city and the notice is accepted by the city. The city shall
accept the notice if the permittee has met the requirements of the permit and
this article. The permittee shall keep and maintain all permit required
improvements and controls on the site until the city accepts the notice.
   D.   Amendments: In the event that the proposed construction activity for a
site to which a permit pertains is materially altered from that described in an
original plan in a way that may have a significant impact upon the
effectiveness of the measures and controls described in the original plan, the
permittee shall file an amended stormwater pollution prevention plan which
meets the criteria set forth in subsection B3 of this section. (Ord. 2011-04,
3-3-2011, eff. 3-4-2011)
8-2A-4-3: PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
The recipient of a stormwater construction activity permit (the permittee)
shall install the erosion and sediment control measures required by the
approved stormwater pollution prevention plan before commencing any
construction activity on the site to which the plan applies or at such times
indicated in the plan. The erosion and sediment control measures shall be
properly installed and maintained in accordance with the permit, the
manufacturers' specifications, and good engineering practices. The permittee
shall maintain such measures on the site until the city accepts the termination
of the permit pursuant to subsection
8-2A-4-2C of this article. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006, eff. 1-19-2006)
8-2A-4-4: INSPECTION AND ENTRY:
The permittee shall allow any authorized employees and representatives of the
city, representatives of the state of Utah division of water quality, and
representatives of the EPA, to enter the site to which a permit applies at any
time and to inspect the erosion and sediment control measures maintained by the
permittee. The permittee shall also allow inspection of any records pertaining
to the conditions of the permit. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006, eff. 1-19-2006)
8-2A-4-5: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   Permit Revocation Or Suspension: A stormwater construction activity
permit may be revoked or suspended by the director upon the occurrence of any
one of the following events:
      1.   Failure of a permittee to comply with the plan or any condition of
the permit; or
      2.   Failure of a permittee to comply with any provision of this article
or any other applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation related to
stormwater; or
      3.   A determination by the director that the erosion and sediment
control measures implemented by a permittee pursuant to the plan are inadequate
to prevent or minimize, to the maximum extent practicable, the discharge of
sediment, debris or other pollutants from the construction site by stormwater.
   B.   Notice: The city shall mail a permittee written notice of noncompliance
before revoking or suspending a permit. The notice shall state the location and
nature of the noncompliance and shall also specify what action is required for
the permittee to avoid revocation or suspension of the permit. The notice shall
allow the permittee a reasonable time to take the necessary corrective action
to avoid revocation or suspension of the permit which time, in the absence of
exceptional circumstances, shall not be less than ten (10) nor more than thirty
(30) days. The notice shall be mailed to the address listed for the permittee
in the application. If the permittee fails to correct the problems identified
in the notice during the time specified in the notice, the director may suspend
or revoke the permit by mailing or delivering written notice of the suspension
or revocation to the permittee. The permittee may appeal a suspension or
revocation of the permit pursuant to the appeal procedure set forth in section
8-2A-4-6 of this article.
   C.   Exceptional Circumstances: For purposes of this section, exceptional
circumstances include, but are not limited to, situations which involve a risk
of injury to persons, damage to storm drain facilities, or damage to other
property or the environment. The city may take any steps the city deems
necessary to alleviate any such exceptional circumstances as defined above, and
may bill the owner, developer, or contractor responsible for creating the
exceptional circumstances for the cost of alleviating said circumstances.
   D.   Stop Work Order: A stop work order may be issued upon the revocation or
suspension of a permit, upon discovery of work in violation of or not in
accordance with a permit, or upon the discovery of work being conducted without
a required permit. The stop work order may be issued by inspectors in the
public works department. No construction activity may be commenced or continued
on any site for which a permit has been revoked or suspended until the permit
has been reinstated or reissued.
   E.   Reinstatement: A stormwater construction activity permit may be
reinstated or reissued upon compliance with all provisions of this article and
all permit conditions, or in the case of a suspension for reasons provided in
subsection A of this section, upon the filing of an amended stormwater
pollution prevention plan which is designed to correct the deficiencies of the
original plan. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006, eff. 1-19-2006)
8-2A-4-6: APPEALS:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: An applicant for a stormwater construction activity
permit or a permittee of a stormwater construction activity permit may appeal
any decision or directive made by the city or its representatives pursuant to
this article. The party desiring to appeal shall file a notice of appeal at the
city office within ten (10) days of the decision or directive being appealed.
The notice of appeal shall contain the following information:
      1.   The appellant's name, address and daytime telephone number;
      2.   A short statement describing the basis for the appeal; and
      3.   The relief sought by the appellant.
   B.   Hearing: Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the mayor shall set a
date for an informal hearing to consider the appeal. The informal hearing shall
be conducted in accordance with policies established by the mayor. The mayor
shall uphold the decision or directive being appealed unless the mayor finds
that there has been an error in the interpretation or implementation of this
article. The mayor shall render a decision on the appeal within ten (10) days
of the informal hearing with the appellant. The mayor shall have authority to
affirm, reverse or modify any decision or directive appealed pursuant to this
section. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006, eff. 1-19-2006)
8-2A-5: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
The following activities are prohibited and unlawful, and shall be considered a
nuisance under title 4, chapter 2 of this code, regardless of whether or not
the violator has a stormwater construction activity permit:
   A.   Covering Sidewalk: Covering any portion of a curb, gutter or sidewalk
with mud, dirt or debris and failing to remove the mud, dirt or debris before
leaving the site. In no case shall the mud, dirt or debris be left overnight.
   B.   Washing Vehicles And Equipment: Washing any vehicle or equipment in a
manner that: 1) leaves concrete, mud, dirt or debris on a public or private
street or on any portion of the public right of way, or 2) allows concrete,
mud, dirt or debris to enter the storm sewer system.
   C.   Discharge Of Pollutants: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the city storm drain system or watercourse any materials
including, but not limited to, pollutants, or water containing any pollutants,
that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards,
other than stormwater.
   D.   Illicit Connections: The construction, use, maintenance or continued
existence of illicit connections to the storm drain system. This prohibition
expressly includes, with limitation, illicit connections made in the past.
   E.   Discharge Of Objects: No person shall throw, deposit, leave, maintain,
keep, or permit to be thrown, deposited, left or maintained in or upon any
public or private property, component of the storm drain system, or waters of
the United States and the state of Utah any refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter,
or other discarded or abandoned objects, articles, and accumulations, so that
the same may cause or contribute to pollution. Waste deposited in the street in
proper waste receptacles for the purpose of collection are exempted from the
prohibition.
   F.   Exception: The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal
discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as
follows:
      1.   Discharges from the following activities will not be considered a
source of pollutants to the storm drain system and to the waters of the United
States and the state of Utah when properly managed to ensure that no potential
pollutants are present, and therefore they shall not be considered illegal
discharges unless determined to cause a violation of the provisions of the
clean water act, or this article: potable water; line flushing; uncontaminated
pumped groundwater; landscape irrigation and lawn watering; diverted stream
flows; rising groundwater; groundwater infiltration to storm drain system;
uncontaminated footing and foundation drains; uncontaminated water from crawl
space pumps; air conditioning condensation; uncontaminated nonindustrial roof
drains; springs; individual residential and occasional noncommercial car
washing; flows from riparian habitats and wetlands; dechlorinated swimming pool
and hot tub discharges; street wash waters; and flows from firefighting.
      2.   The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an active NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued
to the discharger and administered by the state of Utah under the authority of
the federal environmental protection agency, provided the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver or other applicable laws
and regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted by Plain
City for any discharge to the storm drain system. (Ord. 2011-04, 3-3-2011, eff.
3-4-2011)
8-2A-6: MUD, DIRT AND DEBRIS ON CITY STREETS:
   A.   Cleanup Required: Any person or entity that tracks, spills, deposits,
discharges or drops any mud, dirt or other debris on a public or private street
or a public right of way within the city must remove the mud, dirt or other
debris within twenty four (24) hours of when it is left on the street or right
of way. Failure to do so shall be a violation of this article and shall also be
considered a nuisance that may be enforced and/or abated pursuant to title 4,
chapter 2 of this code. The requirement to clean mud, dirt and other debris
from streets and rights of way applies regardless of whether or not the
responsible parties are acting pursuant to a stormwater construction activity
permit.
   B.   Responsible Parties: The following people and entities shall be
considered to be responsible parties for the purpose of enforcing this section:
      1.   Driver: The driver of the vehicle leaving the mud, dirt or debris;
and
      2.   General Contractor: The general contractor in charge of the job site
from which the mud, dirt or debris came.
      3.   Property Or Lot Owner: The individual or individuals who own the
property from which the mud, dirt or debris came.
   C.   Possible Remedies: The city may avail itself of any of the following
nonexclusive remedies to enforce this section if the mud, dirt or debris is not
removed as required herein:
      1.   Public Improvement And Repair Bond: The city may clean (or may hire
an independent contractor to clean) the mud, dirt or debris, and may deduct the
cost of the cleanup, plus an administrative charge in an amount set by
resolution of the city council, from the public improvement and repair bond
posted by the contractor on the job site from which the mud, dirt or debris
came. The city may make draws against the public improvement and repair bond as
specified in title 7, chapter 3 of this code.
      2.   Nuisance Abatement: The violation may be treated as a nuisance under
title 4, chapter 2 of this code and enforced by a designated representative of
the city.
      3.   Criminal Prosecution: The city may prosecute the violation as a
crime pursuant to section
8-2A-8 of this article. (Ord. 2006-04, 1-19-2006, eff. 1-19-2006)
8-2A-7: REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS:
   A.   Authorization To Adopt And Impose Best Management Practices (BMPs): The
city may adopt requirements identifying best management practices for any
activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States and the state of Utah as a separate BMP guidance series. Where best
management practices requirements are promulgated by the city or any federal,
state, or regional agency for any activity, operation, or facility which would
otherwise cause the discharge of pollutants to the storm drain system or waters
of the United States and the state of Utah, every person undertaking such
activity or operation, or owning or operating such facility shall comply with
such requirements.
      1.   New Development And Redevelopment: As approved by the city, new
development or redevelopment activities are required to utilize appropriate
best management practices to control the rate and potential pollutant load of
stormwater runoff as may be appropriate to minimize the generation, transport
and discharge of pollutants. The city shall incorporate such requirements in
any land use entitlement and construction or building related permit to be
issued relative to such development or redevelopment. The owner and developer
shall comply with the terms, provisions, and conditions of such land use
entitlements and building permits as required in this article and the city's
stormwater utility ordinance, or the codified equivalent of any of these
ordinances.
      2.   Responsibility To Implement Best Management Practices: Flood control
projects initiated by the city as well as any person engaged in activities or
operations, or owning facilities or property which will or may result in
pollutants entering stormwater, the stormwater system, or waters of the United
States and the state of Utah shall implement best managements practices to the
extent they are economically feasible and technologically achievable to prevent
and reduce such pollutants. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial
establishment shall provide reasonable protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes into the city storm drain system or
watercourses. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited material
or other wastes shall be provided and maintained at the owner's or operator's
expense.
Best management practices required by the city are found in the Plain City
stormwater management plan. (Ord. 2011-04, 3-3-2011, eff. 3-4-2011)
8-2A-8: VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
The violation of any of the provisions of this article shall be a class C
misdemeanor. Each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
Violators of this article are also subject to any penalties that may be imposed
by the state of Utah, under the authority of the Utah water quality act, title
19, chapter 5 of the Utah code.
In addition to any criminal fines and/or penalties which may be assessed for a
violation of this article, the city shall have the right to order the
responsible person to comply with this article by one or more of the following:
   A.   Verbal Warning: The public works director may serve a verbal warning of
the violation. The warning may include an explanation of the violation,
explanation of the required corrective action and a time at which the
corrective action should be completed.
   B.   Written Notice Of Violation: The public works director may serve a
written notice of the violation. Within ten (10) days of this notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention of the violation must be submitted to the city in writing. Said
written submission in no way relieves the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the written notice.
   C.   Stop Work Order: The public works director may issue or cause to be
issued a written order to immediately cease and desist all violations as well
as direct the violator to cease all activities associated with each violation.
The order may also contain specific requirements that include the construction
of structures, installation of devices, employment of remedial action and the
use of specified management practices as determined by the city that might be
reasonably necessary to correct the violation and ensure compliance. Work may
be allowed to continue, once the requirements of the order are complied with.
   D.   Notice Of Violation With Citation: The public works director may serve
any person who has committed any act declared unlawful under this article.
Anyone who violates any provision of this article, who violates the provisions
of any permit issued pursuant to this article, or who fails or refuses to
comply with any lawful communication or notice to abate corrective action by
the city, shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor.
In addition to any criminal fines and/or penalties which may be assessed for a
violation of this article, the city shall have the right to install and/or
maintain appropriate control measures on any site which is required to have
such measures as required by this article. The city shall have the right to
have such measures installed or maintained by city personnel or to hire a
private contractor to perform such work and the contractor and/or the property
owner shall be liable for any and all expenses related to performing such work
plus a twenty five percent (25%) penalty charge. On an approved construction
site, the city may assess said charges against the bond posted by the
contractor and/or property owner.
Violators of this article may also be subject to prosecution, fines and
penalties from the state of Utah and the United States environmental protection
agency (EPA). (Ord. 2011-04, 3-3-2011, eff. 3-4-2011)
8-2A-9: COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAW:
Nothing contained in this article is intended to relieve any person or entity
from any obligation to comply with applicable federal and state laws and
regulations pertaining to clean water and/or stormwater runoff. (Ord. 2011-04,
3-3-2011, eff. 3-4-2011)
8-2A-10: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in nonhazardous but illegal
discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the storm system, or
waters of the United States or state of Utah from said facility, said person
shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such release and shall immediately notify the city's public works
department by calling the published telephone number during normal business
hours, or the established "hotline" telephone number after normal business
hours, on weekends or holidays. In the event of such a release that includes a
hazardous material said person shall immediately notify the city via the
published "hotline" telephone number, and emergency response officials of the
occurrence via emergency dispatch services (911). (Ord. 2011-04, 3-3-2011, eff.
3-4-2011)
8-2A-11: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT:
Whenever necessary to ensure proper maintenance of existing temporary or
permanent control measures or to make an inspection to enforce any provision of
this article, or whenever the public works director has cause to believe that
there exists, or potentially exists, in or upon any premises any condition
which constitutes a violation of this article, the public works director or his
designee may enter such premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same
and to copy records related to stormwater compliance. In the event the owner or
occupant refuses entry after a request to enter and inspect has been made, the
city is hereby empowered to seek assistance from any court of competent
jurisdiction in obtaining such entry. (Ord. 2011-04, 3-3-2011, eff. 3-4-2011)
8-2A-12: STORM SEWER SYSTEM LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID); FINDINGS:
This section is meant to expand the applicability of the existing standard
Storm Water Management Plan (SWMP) program requirements by imposing Low Impact
Development (LID) strategies on projects that require building permits and/or
encroachment permits.
   A.   Plain City is authorized by the State of Utah to exercise the power of
the State by adopting regulations to promote public health, public safety and
general prosperity.
   B.   Plain City has authority under the Federal Clean Water Act to adopt and
enforce ordinances imposing conditions, restrictions and limitations with
respect to any activity which might degrade the quality of waters of the State.
   C.   The City is the permittee under the "Storm Water Discharge Requirements
for Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) Discharges within Watersheds of
Weber County, also serves as an NPDES Permit under the Federal Clean Water Act
(UPDES No. UTR090000) as well as Storm Water Discharge Requirements under Utah
law (the "Municipal UPDES permit"). In order to participate in a Watershed
Management Program and/or Enhanced Watershed Management Program, the Municipal
UPDES permit requires permittees to develop and implement a LID Ordinance.
   D.   Plain City is committed to a storm water management program that
protects water quality and water supply by employing watershed-based approaches
that balance environmental, social, and economic considerations.
   E.   Urbanization has led to increased impervious surface areas resulting in
increased water runoff causing the transport of pollutants to downstream
receiving waters.
   F.   Plain City needs to take a new approach to managing rainwater and urban
runoff while mitigating the negative impacts of development and urbanization.
   G.   LID is widely recognized as a sensible approach to managing the
quantity and quality of storm water and non-stormwater runoff by setting
standards and practices to maintain or restore the natural hydrologic character
of a development site, reduce off-site runoff, improve water quality, and
provide groundwater recharge. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-15-2020)
8-2A-12-1: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of Plain City to add to the existing Storm Water Management
Plan (SWMP) requirements by providing stormwater and rainwater LID two (2)
strategies for development and redevelopment projects as defined under
"Applicability." Where there are conflicts between this subchapter and
previously adopted SWMP or LID Manuals, the standards in this subchapter shall
prevail. Chapter
8-2A-12 of Plain City's Municipal Code in its entirety to read as follows:
   Definitions. Except as specifically provided herein, any term used in this
Chapter shall be defined as that term in the current Municipal UPDES permit, or
if it is not specifically defined in either the Municipal UPDES permit, then as
such term is defined in the Federal Clean Water Act. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-15-2020)
8-2A-12-2: STORMWATER POLLUTION CONTROL MEASURES FOR DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AND
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Objective: The provisions of this section contain requirements for
construction activities and facility operations of development and
redevelopment projects to comply with the current "Municipal UPDES permit,"
lessen the water quality impacts of development by using smart growth
practices, and integrate LID design principles to mimic predevelopment
hydrology through infiltration, evapotranspiration and rainfall harvest and
use. LID shall be inclusive of previously adopted SWMP requirements.
   B.   This section contains requirements for stormwater pollution control
measures in development and redevelopment projects and authorizes Plain City to
further define and adopt stormwater pollution control measures, to develop LID
principles and requirements, including but not limited to the objectives and
specifications for integration of LID strategies, and to grant waivers or
alternate compliance as allowed by the Municipal UPDES permit and collect fees
from projects granted exceptions. Except as otherwise provided herein, Plain
City shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this Section.
Guidance documents supporting implementation of requirements in this subchapter
are hereby incorporated by reference, including SWMP and LID Manuals.
   C.   Applicability: The following development and redevelopment projects,
termed "Planning Priority Projects," shall comply with the requirements of
8-2A-4-1:
      1.   All development projects equal to one (1) acre or greater of
disturbed area that adds more than ten thousand (10,000) square feet of
impervious surface area.
      2.   Industrial parks ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more of
surface area.
      3.   Commercial malls ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more of
surface area.
      4.   Retail gasoline outlets with five thousand (5,000) square feet or
more of surface area.
      5.   Restaurants (Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) of 5812) with
five thousand (5,000) square feet or more of surface area.
      6.   Parking lots with five thousand (5,000) square feet or more of
impervious surface area, or with twenty-five (25) or more parking spaces.
      7.   Streets and roads construction of ten thousand (10,000) square feet
or more of impervious surface area.
      8.   Automotive service facilities (Standard Industrial Classification
(SIC) of 5013, 5014, 5511, 5541, 7532-7534 and 7536-7539) five thousand (5,000)
square feet or more of surface area.
      9.   Projects located in or directly adjacent to, or discharging directly
to an Environmentally Sensitive Area (ESA), where the development will:
         a.   Discharge stormwater runoff that is likely to impact a sensitive
biological species or habitat; and
         b.   Create two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet or more of
impervious surface area
      10.   Single-family hillside homes.
      11.   Redevelopment projects.
      12.   Land disturbing activity that results in the creation or addition
or replacement of five thousand (5,000) square feet or more of impervious
surface area on an already developed site on planning priority project
categories.
      13.   Where redevelopment results in an alteration to more than fifty
percent (50%) of impervious surfaces of a previously existing development, and
the existing development was not subject to post-construction stormwater
quality control requirements, the entire project must be mitigated.
      14.   Where redevelopment results in an alteration of less than fifty
percent (50%) of impervious surfaces of a previously existing development, and
the existing development was not subject to post-construction stormwater
quality control requirements, only the alteration must be mitigated, and not
the entire development.
      15.   Redevelopment does not include routine maintenance activities that
are conducted to maintain original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, original
purpose of facility or emergency redevelopment activity required to protect
public health and safety. Impervious surface replacement, such as the
reconstruction of parking lots and roadways which does not disturb additional
area and maintains the original grade and alignment, is considered a routine
maintenance activity. Redevelopment does not include the repaving of existing
roads to maintain original line and grade.
      16.   Existing single-family dwelling and accessory structures are exempt
from the redevelopment requirements unless such projects create, add, or
replace ten thousand (10,000) square feet of impervious surface area.
      17.   Any other project as deemed appropriate by the director and city
engineer.
   D.   Effective Date: The planning and land development requirements
contained in this subchapter shall become effective ten (10) days from the
adoption of the subchapter. This includes planning priority projects that are
discretionary permit projects or project phases that have not been deemed
complete for processing, or discretionary permit projects without vesting
tentative maps that have not requested and received an extension of previously
granted approvals within ninety (90) days of adoption of the subchapter.
Projects that have been deemed complete within ninety (90) days of adoption of
the subchapter are not subject to the requirements of this Chapter.
   E.   Stormwater Pollution Control Requirements: The site for every planning
priority project shall be designed to control pollutants, pollutant loads, and
runoff volume to the maximum extent feasible by minimizing impervious surface
area and controlling runoff from impervious surfaces through infiltration,
evapotranspiration, bioretention and/or rainfall harvest and use.
   F.   A new single-family hillside home development shall include mitigation
measures to:
      1.   Conserve natural areas;
      2.   Protect slopes and channels;
      3.   Provide storm drain system stenciling and signage;
      4.   Divert roof runoff to vegetated areas before discharge unless the
diversion would result in slope instability; and
      5.   Direct surface flow to vegetated areas before discharge, unless the
diversion would result in slope instability.
   G.   The remainder of planning priority projects shall prepare a LID plan to
comply with the following:
      1.   Retain stormwater runoff onsite for the stormwater quality design
volume, defined as the runoff from:
         a.   The 80th percentile 24-hour runoff event as determined from the
80th percentile precipitation isohyet map; or
         b.   The volume of runoff produced from a 0.75 inch, 24-hour rain
event, whichever is greater.
   H.   When, as determined by city public works director and city engineer,
one hundred percent (100%) onsite retention of the SWQDV is technically
infeasible, partially or fully, the infeasibility shall be demonstrated in the
submitted LID plan. The technical infeasibility may result from conditions that
may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   The infiltration rate of saturated in-situ soils is less than 0.3
inch per hour and it is not technically feasible to amend the in-situ soils to
attain an infiltration rate necessary to achieve reliable performance of
infiltration or bioretention BMPs in retaining the SWQDV onsite.
      2.   Locations where seasonal high groundwater is within five (5) to ten
(10) feet of surface grade;
      3.   Locations within one hundred (100) feet of a groundwater well used
for drinking water;
      4.   Brownfield development sites or other locations where pollutant
mobilization is a documented concern;
      5.   Locations with potential geotechnical hazards;
      6.   Smart growth and infill or redevelopment locations where the density
and/ or nature of the project would create significant difficulty for
compliance with the onsite volume retention requirement. If partial or complete
onsite retention is technically infeasible, the project site may biofiltration
1.5 times the portion of the remaining SWQDV that is not reliably retained
onsite. Biofiltration BMPs must adhere to the design specifications provided in
the Municipal UPDES permit.
      7.   Additional alternative compliance options such as offsite
infiltration may be available to the project site. The project site should
contact the [APPROVING AGENCY] to determine eligibility.
      8.   The remaining SWQDV that cannot be retained or biofiltered onsite
must be treated onsite to reduce pollutant loading. BMPs must be selected and
designed to meet pollutant-specific benchmarks as required per the Municipal
UPDES permit. Flow-through BMP's may be used to treat the remaining SWQDV and
must be sized based on a rainfall intensity of:
         a.   0.2 inches per hour; or
         b.   The one (1) year, twenty four-hour rainfall intensity as
determined from the most recent Weber County isohyet map, whichever is greater.
   I.   A multi-phased project may comply with the standards and requirements
of this section for all of its phases by:
      1.   Designing a system acceptable to the division of water quality (DWQ)
to satisfy these standards and requirements for the entire site during the
first phase; and
      2.   Implementing these standards and requirements for each phase of
development or redevelopment of the site during the first phase or prior to
commencement of construction of a later phase, to the extent necessary to treat
the stormwater from such later phase. For purposes of this section, "Multi-
phased project" shall mean any planning priority project implemented over more
than one (1) phase and the site of a multi-phased project shall include any
land and water area designed and used to store, treat or manage stormwater
runoff in connection with the development or redevelopment, including any
tracts, lots, or parcels of real property, whether developed or not, associated
with, functionally connected to, or under common ownership or control with such
development or redevelopment.
All Plain City departments, offices, shall establish administrative procedures
necessary to implement the provisions of this article on their development and
redevelopment projects and report their activities annually to the DWQ. (Ord.
2020-10, 10-15-2020)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Building Official
9-1-3: Building Permit Required
9-1-4: Fee Schedule
9-1-5: Ditches
9-1-6: Lot Grading And Drainage Requirements
9-1-7: Limitation On Plan Check Fees
9-1-8: Penalty; Exception
9-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adopted: Pursuant to the terms of Utah Code Annotated section 58-56-4
(2) and Utah administrative code section R156-56-701, the city hereby adopts
the international building code (IBC), as modified by chapter 11 of the
supplement to the international building code, promulgated by the International
Code Council, and amendments thereto as adopted under the Utah administrative
code, together with standards incorporated into the IBC by reference,
including, but not limited to, the international energy conservation code
(IECC) promulgated by the International Code Council and the international
residential code 1
(IRC) promulgated by the International Code Council. (1982 Code § 9-531; amd.
Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-2002, eff. 4-18-2002; 2003 Code)
   B.   IBC Amendments: The IBC adopted in subsection A of this section is
amended by the statewide amendments contained in Utah administrative code
section R156-56-704. All of those amendments included in said section R156-56-
704 are hereby incorporated into this section by this reference.
   C.   Update Of Amendments: The amendments adopted in subsection B of this
section shall be automatically updated whenever additional amendments are
adopted by the division of occupational and professional licensing and/or the
uniform building code commission pursuant to their authority under Utah Code
Annotated sections 58-56-4(4) and 58-56-7, and added to the amendments included
in Utah administrative code section R156-56-704 as referenced herein.
   D.   Exemptions: Structures used in relation to tilling of soil, raising of
crops or keeping or raising domestic animals for the purpose of food production
and which are not occupied by human beings are exempt from the permit
requirements of the IBC. Construction, expansion, maintenance, repair or
replacement of such buildings are still subject to the permit requirements of
the other city ordinances or codes, as applicable. (Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-2002,
eff. 4-18-2002; amd. Ord. 2025-08, 6-19-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 4 of this title.
9-1-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the position of building official who
shall also be known as the building inspector. (1982 Code § 9-511)
   B.   Powers:
      1.   Stop Order: The building inspector shall have the power to order all
work stopped on construction, alteration or repairs of buildings in the city
when such work is being done in violation of any provisions of any ordinance
relating thereto, or in violation of the subdivision or zoning ordinances of
the city. Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of such order, except on
the written permission of the inspector; provided, that if the stop order is an
oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such
written stop order may be served by any peace officer or other authorized
person. (1982 Code § 9-512)
      2.   Entry: The building inspector shall have the power to enter into any
building or the premises where the work of altering, repairing or constructing
any building or structure is going on, for the purpose of making inspections at
any reasonable hour, pursuant to any of the provisions of this title. (1982
Code § 9-513)
   C.   Duties: The building inspector shall, in addition to all other duties
imposed on him by the city: (1982 Code § 9-514)
      1.   Enforce the provisions of the building code. (1982 Code § 9-514;
amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Inspect all buildings, structures, ditches, signs, fences and
objects to determine their safety and effect on the persons who are within the
city.
      3.   Until such time as a plumbing inspector is appointed or designated,
the building inspector shall be responsible for enforcing chapter 3 of this
title.
      4.   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building site is in a location
that has a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or substantial
improvement (including prefabricated and mobile homes) must:
         a.   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
         b.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         c.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      5.   Review subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments to
assure that:
         a.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
         b.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage; and
         c.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
         d.   Ensure that public improvements required by City ordinances or
contemplated in an applicable subdivision improvement plan approved by the City
are completed before work on any buildings or other private improvements
begins.
      6.   Require new or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary
sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters,
and require on site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid
impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding. (1982 Code § 9-
514; amd. Ord. 2025-08, 6-19-2025)
9-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Application And Plans:
      1.   A building permit shall be secured from the city recorder on written
application accompanied by plans and specifications in duplicate, which plans
must conform to the structure and design requirements of the building code, as
a minimum.
         a.   Where an applicant seeks a building permit to begin construction
on buildings or other private improvements on lots in a subdivision, the City
shall withhold said permit until:
            (1)   The applicable final subdivision plat approved by the City is
properly recorded with the County Recorder’s Office; and
            (2)   All public improvements required by City ordinances or
contemplated in the applicable subdivision improvement plan approved by the
City are completed.
      2.   Any permit issued under this chapter may be withheld, suspended or
revoked if any contractors or subcontractors fail to obtain the necessary
license required herein.
      3.   The building inspector may issue a written certificate of exception
which may be submitted to the city recorder in lieu of an engineer's statement
if such permit is based on approval or authority consistent with the building
code. (1982 Code § 9-522; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Variations Of Plan Prohibited: No material variation from the approved
plan shall be allowed unless such variations shall first have been approved in
writing by the building inspector. (1982 Code § 9-524)
   C.   Approval Of Plan: The application and plans shall be forwarded from the
city recorder to the building inspector, who shall review the plan to determine
whether the proposed construction or alteration conforms to the building codes
and ordinances of the city. The building inspector shall return the plans to
the city recorder within ten (10) days with the statement "approved" if the
plans do conform or "disapproved" if the plans do not conform. If the plans are
disapproved, the reasons therefor shall be annexed to the plans. Upon receipt
of an approved plan, the city recorder shall issue a permit to the applicant,
together with one set of the approved plan. One set of the plans shall be
retained by the building inspector. The building inspector may revoke at any
time a permit which has been issued for any building constructed or being
constructed or which would be or result, if constructed, in violation of any
ordinance of the city. A copy of the permit shall be forwarded to the Weber
County assessor's office. (1982 Code § 9-523; amd. Ord. 2025-08, 6-19-2025)
9-1-4: FEE SCHEDULE:
Fees authorized in the IBC for inspections, permits, certificates and other
purposes shall be governed by table 1-A of the 1997 edition of the uniform
building code promulgated by the International Conference of Building
Officials, or as may otherwise be adopted by the state.(Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-
2002, eff. 4-18-2002; amd. Ord. 2025-08, 6-19-2025)
9-1-5: DITCHES:
   A.   Engineer Approval Required: No ditch, drain or other waterway through
which ground or surface waters from any source whatsoever collects or passes
shall be piped, culverted or in any manner filled in without the approval of
the city engineer. This includes ditches which are presently piped or otherwise
enclosed which may be opened for any purpose.
   B.   Conformance: The project shall be completed under the direction of the
city engineer and shall conform to all specifications that the city engineer
shall establish.
   C.   Permit Required: Before any person places piping, culverts, or in any
manner fills in any said ditches, drains or waterways, he shall obtain a permit
from the city recorder. (1982 Code § 9-526)
   D.   Fee For Permit: The city recorder shall collect a fee for the permit in
such amount as established by resolution of the city council, which amount may
be changed by resolution at the discretion of the city council.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1982 Code § 9-526; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2025-08, 6-19-
2025)
9-1-6: LOT GRADING AND DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The following requirement is for the purpose of preventing water
accumulation on buildable lots both inside and outside of a given development.
   B.   Before the city may issue a building permit for the construction of a
primary dwelling on a residential lot, the lot shall be graded such that: (1)
the lot elevation matches that of all adjacent lots; and (2) the slope of the
lot mitigates against water runoff into adjacent lots. In the case of a lot
that is lower than the surrounding properties, the lot must be raised to match
the elevation of surrounding properties before building may occur. All water
runoff from a lot must be either contained on the lot or conveyed onto the
street or to an approved drainage facility or easement. These requirements are
in addition to all drainage and grading requirements in the State Building Code
(see e.g., IBC J109.4 (Drainage Across Property Lines)). (Ord. 2025-08, 6-19-
2025)
9-1-7: LIMITATION ON PLAN CHECK FEES:
The city's fees for reviewing and approving plans for commercial or residential
buildings shall be the lesser of:
   A.   The city's actual cost of performing the review; or
   B.   Either:
      1.   In the case of commercial buildings, sixty five percent (65%) of the
amount the city has charged for the building permit; or
      2.   In the case of residential buildings, sixty five percent (65%) of
the amount the city has charged for the building permit.
   C.   The city's fees for reviewing and approving identical plans shall be
the greater of:
      1.   The city's costs of ensuring that the plans are identical and
reviewing and approving minor variations between the two (2) identical
buildings; or
      2.   One hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-2002, eff. 4-18-
2002; amd. Ord. 2025-08, 6-19-2025)
9-1-8: PENALTY; EXCEPTION:
   A.   It shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1  of this code, for any homeowner and a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code, for any person who receives payment or anything of value
to construct or alter any building or structure, except a fence, without first
securing the permit required by this chapter.
   B.   This section shall not apply where the retail cost of the materials
used in the construction or alteration is less than five hundred dollars
($500.00), except that it shall apply in all cases where the construction or
alteration results in an enlarged structure or affects the walls of the
building or structure. (1982 Code § 9-521; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2025-08, 6-19-
2025)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Electrical Code Adopted
9-2-2: Enforcement Official
9-2-3: Permit Required
9-2-4: Permit Fees
9-2-5: Electrical Installations
9-2-6: Inspection
9-2-7: Electrical Disturbances
9-2-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adopted: The national electrical code (NEC), promulgated by the
National Fire Protection Association, is approved and adopted as the electrical
code of the city. (1982 Code § 9-540; amd. Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-2002, eff. 4-18-
2002; 2003 Code)
   B.   Amendments: The NEC adopted in subsection A of this section is amended
by the statewide amendments contained in Utah administrative code section R156-
56-706. All of those amendments included in said section R156-56-706 are hereby
incorporated into this section by this reference.
   C.   Update Of Amendments: The amendments adopted in subsection B of this
section shall be automatically updated whenever additional amendments are
adopted by the division of occupational and professional licensing and/or the
uniform building code commission pursuant to their authority under Utah Code
Annotated sections 58-56-4(4) and 58-56-7, and added to the amendments included
in Utah administrative code section R156-56-706 as referenced herein. (Ord.
2002-05, 4-18-2002, eff. 4-18-2002)
9-2-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The building inspector shall perform all functions of electrical inspection and
shall, among other things, inspect and supervise the construction, installation
and repairs of all electric light and power wiring, fixtures, appliances or
apparatus installed within the limits of the city and shall require compliance
with the provisions of the electrical code. Wiring, fixtures and apparatus
heretofore installed need not necessarily be made to conform strictly to all
the provisions of the electrical code. The building inspector shall require the
correction of such defects as he deems actually dangerous to life or property.
Those same enforcement standards established in the building code shall be
followed by the building inspector for all electrical work. (1982 Code § 9-541;
amd. 2003 Code)
9-2-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No alterations or additions shall be made in existing wiring, nor shall any
wiring or any apparatus which generates, transmits, transforms or utilizes any
electricity be installed without first obtaining a permit therefor, except
minor repair work such as repairing flush and snap switches, replacing fuses,
changing lamp sockets and receptacles, taping bare joints and repairing drop
cords. Applications for such permit describing such work shall be made in
writing and shall conform as far as practicable to the requirement set forth in
subsection 9-1-3A of this title. This section shall not apply to installations
in powerhouses and substations belonging to electric light companies. No permit
shall be issued to any applicant for a permit during the time that he shall
fail to correct any defective electrical installations after he has been duly
notified to correct such defective work by the building inspector. (1982 Code §
9-542)
9-2-4: PERMIT FEES:
The electrical permit fees applicable in the city for use under the national
electrical code, shall be as established by the city. (1982 Code § 9-543; amd.
2003 Code)
9-2-5: ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS:
   A.   Business License Required: No person shall engage in the installation,
alteration, repair or construction of any electrical work, wiring, fixtures,
appliances or equipment inside or outside of any building, except work done for
or on the property of the city, without first securing a business license and
paying the permit fee therefor as provided in section
9-2-4 of this chapter. (1982 Code § 9-551)
   B.   Notification To Building Inspector: It shall be unlawful for any person
to do or cause to be done any electrical wiring or other electrical
installation in a building or structure within the city without first notifying
the building inspector of the kind and nature of such electric wiring or other
electrical installation and the location of the building or structure in which
the same is to be installed. (1982 Code § 9-552)
   C.   Subject To Supervision And Inspection: All electric wiring or other
electrical installations shall be subject to supervision and inspection by the
building inspector. It shall be unlawful for any person to do or cause to be
done any electrical wiring or electrical installations without first obtaining
the permit required by section
9-2-3 of this chapter. (1982 Code § 9-553)
   D.   Unlawful Installation:
      1.   Disconnection; Seal: If the building inspector shall find any part
of any electric light or power wiring, appliances, apparatus or fixtures in or
upon any building in the city to have been installed without permit, or
installed not in accordance with the provisions of the electrical code or to be
dangerous to life or property, the inspector shall have the right and power to
disconnect such defective work, fixtures, appliances or apparatus and place a
seal upon the same, and shall at the same time give written notice of such
disconnection to the owner or occupant of the building.
      2.   Removal Of Seal: After such disconnected wiring, fixtures,
appliances or apparatus have been put in the condition required by this
chapter, the seal so placed shall be removed by order of the inspector. (1982
Code § 9-554)
9-2-6: INSPECTION:
   A.   Notification; Issuance Of Certificate: Upon completion of the
installation of any electrical wiring, fixtures, appliances or apparatus in or
on any building, it shall be the duty of the person doing the work to notify
the building inspector, who shall cause the same to be inspected and, if
approved, to issue a certificate of inspection which shall contain the date of
such inspection and a statement that the installation is approved. (1982 Code §
9-555)
   B.   Unlawful To Connect Current Without Certificate: It shall be unlawful
for any person to turn on or connect the current with such installation until
such certificate shall be issued, and it shall also be unlawful to make any
change, alteration or extension in or to the installation of any electrical
wiring, fixtures, appliances or apparatus in or on any building after
inspection without notifying the building inspector and securing a permit to do
so. (1982 Code § 9-555; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Exception: The requirement of permits, inspection and supervision shall
not apply to minor repair work such as repairing flush and snap switches,
replacing fuses, changing lamp sockets and receptacles, taping bare joints and
repairing drop cords, and wiring for appliances and devices operating at less
than twenty five (25) volts. (1982 Code § 9-555)
9-2-7: ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCES:
   A.   Declared Nuisance: Electrical installations for signs, equipment or
other facilities which create electrical disturbances that cause interference
with normal radio or television reception beyond the immediate vicinity of such
electrical installations are hereby declared to be a nuisance. The owners or
operators thereof shall so install and maintain such installations as to avoid
or eliminate such interference, using all known means and devices for such
purpose, such as proper grounding, connections, condensers, resistors and live
chokes.
   B.   Abatement: The building inspector shall withhold or withdraw approval
of any electrical installation causing the above disturbance, and is hereby
authorized to take all steps necessary for the abatement of such conditions.
(1982 Code § 9-544)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
9-3-2: Scope
9-3-3: Building Inspector
9-3-4: Permits
9-3-5: Permit Fees
9-3-6: Allowance For Exception
9-3-7: Right Of Entry
9-3-8: Interest In Sale Of Equipment Prohibited
9-3-9: Power To Condemn
9-3-10: Reinspection Charge
9-3-11: Refusal To Comply With Order Of Inspector
9-3-12: Penalty
9-3-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adopted: The international plumbing code (IPC), promulgated by the
International Code Council, is approved and adopted as the plumbing code of the
city. (1982 Code § 9-561; amd. Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-2002, eff. 4-18-2002; 2003
Code)
   B.   Amendments: The IPC adopted in subsection A of this section is amended
by the statewide amendments contained in Utah administrative code section R156-
56-707. All of those amendments included in said section R156-56-707 are hereby
incorporated into this section by this reference.
   C.   Update Of Amendments: The amendments adopted in subsection B of this
section shall be automatically updated whenever additional amendments are
adopted by the division of occupational and professional licensing and/or the
uniform building code commission pursuant to their authority under Utah Code
Annotated sections 58-56-4(4) and 58-56-7, and added to the amendments included
in Utah administrative code section R156-56-707 as referenced herein. (Ord.
2002-05, 4-18-2002, eff. 4-18-2002)
9-3-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to, but not be limited to, all new
construction, relocated buildings and to any installation, alteration, repair
or reconstruction of a plumbing system within the city, except as otherwise
provided for in this chapter. (1982 Code § 9-562)
9-3-3: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the position of building inspector.
   B.   Duties: The building inspector shall issue permits to properly
licensed, bonded and registered persons. Licensing should be for work to be
done within the scope of this chapter. The building inspector: (1982 Code § 9-
563; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Shall order changes in workmanship and/or materials essential to
enforce compliance with all provisions of the plumbing code.
      2.   Shall investigate any construction or work regulated by this chapter
and issue such notices and orders as are necessary to prevent or correct
dangerous or unsanitary conditions.
      3.   May recommend the revocation of any license to the state department
of business regulation for cause and report to the department of business
regulation all violations of this chapter by journeymen, apprentices or
contractors. (1982 Code § 9-563)
9-3-4: PERMITS:
   A.   Required; Application: No plumbing shall be installed, nor additions or
alterations made in existing plumbing, except as provided in subsection C of
this section, without first obtaining a permit. Application for such permits
shall be in writing to the city recorder and shall describe the nature of the
work to be done and affirm that the plumbing will conform to the plumbing code.
No permit shall be issued to any applicant during the time that he shall fail
to correct any defective plumbing installed by him after he has been notified
in writing by the building inspector of the defective work. (1982 Code § 9-568;
amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Homeowners Permit: Any permit required by this chapter may be issued to
any person to do any plumbing or drainage work regulated by this chapter in a
single-family dwelling used exclusively for living purposes, including the
usual accessory buildings and quarters in connection with such buildings, in
the event that any such person is the bona fide owner of any such dwelling and
accessory buildings and quarters and that the same are occupied by or designed
to be occupied by the owner; and further provided, that the owner shall furnish
the building inspector with a complete layout drawing of the proposed work,
satisfies the building inspector that he has a working knowledge of the
requirements contained in this chapter, pays the necessary fees and calls for
all inspections required by this chapter. (1982 Code § 9-573; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Repairs which involve only the working parts of a faucet or valve,
the clearance of stoppages, the repairing of leaks or the replacement of
defective faucets or valves may be made without a permit; provided, that the
permits shall be procured to replace fixtures, traps, soil, waste and vent
pipes, unless waived by the building inspector.
      2.   Any person regularly employed by an owner or lessee of property, or
his agents, for the sole purpose of operating and maintaining such property and
to make minor repairs thereof, and any owner or lessee of property, shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter when doing work for which permits
are not required. (1982 Code § 9-572; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Denial: The building inspector may refuse to issue permits for any
plumbing work to any person who has had a permit revoked in accordance with
this chapter during such time as such person fails to perform plumbing work in
conformance with this chapter. (1982 Code § 9-571; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Expiration: Every permit issued by the building inspector shall expire
and become null and void if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced
within sixty (60) days from the date such permit is issued, or if the work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work
is commenced for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days or more. (1982 Code
§ 9-570; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Revocation: The building inspector may revoke any permit when the
person to whom the permit is issued fails, neglects or refuses to do the work
thereunder in conformance with this chapter, or when the permit is issued in
error. (1982 Code § 9-569; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-5: PERMIT FEES:
Before a permit shall be issued, permit fees shall be paid in such amount as
established by the city. (1982 Code § 9-574; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-6: ALLOWANCE FOR EXCEPTION:
Where structural conditions impose extreme difficulty in fully complying with
the plumbing regulations of this chapter, any aggrieved party may apply in
writing to the building inspector for special permission to deviate from the
regulations. If, in the judgment of the building inspector, such deviation is
reasonable and does not create an unsanitary or unsafe condition, he shall
recommend to the city council that the request for deviation be approved or
disapproved, or that approval is subject to such conditions as the city council
may require. The city council, on review, may approve or disapprove the
application or vary the conditions on which approval is granted. (1982 Code §
9-564; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-7: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The building inspector shall have the right of entry within reasonable hours to
any building or premise for the purpose of inspection or to investigate any
work or conditions governed by this chapter. (1982 Code § 9-565; amd. 2003
Code)
9-3-8: INTEREST IN SALE OF EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED:
The building inspector and his assistants shall not in any way engage in the
sale or installation of plumbing equipment upon which they are required to make
inspection hereunder. (1982 Code § 9-567; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-9: POWER TO CONDEMN:
The building inspector is hereby empowered to condemn and order repaired,
removed, replaced or changed any plumbing found in any unsanitary condition or
not in accordance with this chapter. Failure to comply with the order within a
reasonable time is an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1982 Code § 9-566; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-10: REINSPECTION CHARGE:
After notice that any plumbing work is ready for inspection, if the building
inspector calls at the place designated to make such inspection and finds the
work not ready for inspection, he shall charge an additional fee in such amount
as established by resolution of the city council. (1982 Code § 9-575; amd. 2003
Code)
9-3-11: REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF INSPECTOR:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or occupant of any building or
premises to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, remove, replace or change within
ten (10) days after written notice to do so from the building inspector, any
plumbing condemned by such inspector; provided, that this subsection shall not
apply to any occupant not responsible for the installation or repair of the
condemned plumbing. (1982 Code § 9-576; amd. 2003 Code)
9-3-12: PENALTY:
   A.   Homeowner, Building Owner Or Manager: The violation of any provision of
this chapter by any homeowner, building owner or manager of any building,
apartment, hotel, motel or other structure shall be an infraction and subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Person Receiving Payment: The violation of any provision of this
chapter by any person who receives payment or anything of value for performing
such work shall be a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1982 Code § 9-577; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Residential Code Adopted
9-4-2: Scope
9-4-3: Permit Required
9-4-4: Violations
9-4-1: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adopted: The international residential code (IRC), promulgated by the
International Code Council, is approved and adopted as the residential code of
the city. (1982 Code § 9-651; amd. Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-2002, eff. 4-18-2002;
2003 Code)
   B.   Amendments: The IRC adopted in subsection A of this section is amended
by the statewide amendments contained in Utah administrative code section R156-
56-710. All of those amendments included in said section R156-56-710 are hereby
incorporated into this section by this reference.
   C.   Update Of Amendments: The amendments adopted in subsection B of this
section shall be automatically updated whenever additional amendments are
adopted by the division of occupational and professional licensing and/or the
uniform building code commission pursuant to their authority under Utah Code
Annotated sections 58-56-4(4) and 58-56-7, and added to the amendments included
in Utah administrative code section R156-56-710 as referenced herein. (Ord.
2002-05, 4-18-2002, eff. 4-18-2002)
9-4-2: SCOPE:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of the residential code shall apply to
all buildings or portions thereof used, designed for or intended to be used for
human habitation. Occupancies in existing buildings may be continued as
provided in the building code, except for such structures as are found to be
"substandard", as defined in the residential code. (1982 Code § 9-652; amd.
2003 Code)
   B.   Alterations To Existing Buildings: Existing buildings which are altered
or enlarged shall be made to conform to the residential code, insofar as the
new work is concerned, in accordance with the building code. (1982 Code § 9-
653; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Relocation Of Existing Buildings: Existing buildings which are moved or
relocated shall be considered as new buildings and shall comply with all
requirements of the residential code. (1982 Code § 9-654; amd. 2003 Code)
9-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish any building or structure,
cause or allow the same to be done, without first obtaining a separate building
permit for each such building or structure from the building official in the
manner and according to the applicable conditions prescribed in the residential
code. (1982 Code § 9-657; amd. 2003 Code)
9-4-4: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of the residential code or any order issued by the building official
pursuant thereto. (1982 Code § 9-656; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings Code Adopted
9-5-2: Scope
9-5-3: Dangerous Buildings Declared Nuisance
9-5-4: Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings
9-5-1: ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS CODE ADOPTED:
The uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings, in such edition as
shall have most recently been adopted by the state, printed as a code in book
form by the International Conference of Building Officials (providing for a
just, equitable and practicable method whereby buildings or structures which
from any cause endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or
welfare of the general public or their occupants, may be required to be
repaired, vacated or demolished), three (3) copies of which have been filed for
use and examination by the public in the office of the city recorder, is hereby
approved and adopted as the abatement of dangerous buildings code of the city.
(1982 Code § 10-341; amd. 2003 Code)
9-5-2: SCOPE:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of the abatement of dangerous buildings
code shall apply to all dangerous buildings as therein defined, which now exist
or which may exist or hereafter be constructed in the city. (1982 Code § 10-
342)
   B.   Alterations, Additions And Repairs: All buildings or structures which
are required to be repaired under the provisions of the abatement of dangerous
buildings code shall be subject to the applicable sections of the building
code. (1982 Code § 10-343; amd. 2003 Code)
9-5-3: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS DECLARED NUISANCE:
All dangerous buildings within the terms of this chapter are hereby declared to
be public nuisances and shall be vacated or demolished as herein provided.
(1982 Code § 10-346; amd. 2003 Code)
9-5-4: ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
All buildings or portions thereof which are determined, after inspection by the
building official to be dangerous, as defined in the abatement of dangerous
buildings code, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated
by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with procedures
specified in the applicable sections of the dangerous buildings code. (1982
Code § 10-344; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Mechanical Code Adopted
9-6-1: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adopted: The international mechanical code (IMC), together with all
applicable standards set forth in the international fuel gas code (IFGC), are
approved and adopted as the mechanical code of the city. (Ord. 2002-05, 4-18-
2002, eff. 4-18-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Amendments: The IMC adopted in subsection A of this section is amended
by the statewide amendments contained in Utah administrative code section R156-
56-708. All of those amendments included in said section R156-56-708 are hereby
incorporated into this section by this reference.
   C.   Update Of Amendments: The amendments adopted in subsection B of this
section shall be automatically updated whenever additional amendments are
adopted by the division of occupational and professional licensing and/or the
uniform building code commission pursuant to their authority under Utah Code
Annotated sections 58-56-4(4) and 58-56-7, and added to the amendments included
in Utah administrative code section R156-56-708 as referenced herein. (Ord.
2002-05, 4-18-2002, eff. 4-18-2002)
CHAPTER 7
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-7-1: Adoption
9-7-2: Key Lock Box Standards
9-7-1: ADOPTION:
The current edition of the international fire code, as that code, and all of
its appendices presently exists or as it may from time to time be supplemented
or amended, copies of which are on file in the office of the city recorder, is
hereby adopted as the applicable fire code of the city as if the same were
fully set out herein. (Ord. 2011-02, 1-20-2011, eff. 1-21-2011)
9-7-2: KEY LOCK BOX STANDARDS:
   A.   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or
near the main entrance or such other location required by the fire chief:
      1.   Commercial or industrial structures protected by an automatic alarm
system or automatic suppression system, or such structures that are secured in
a manner that restricts access during an emergency;
      2.   Multi-family residential structures that have restricted access
through locked doors and have a common corridor for access to the living units;
      3.   Governmental structures and nursing care facilities.
   B.   All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall have the
key lock box installed and operational prior to the issuance of an occupancy
permit. All structures in existence on the effective date of this section and
subject to this section shall have one year from the effective date of this
section to have a key lock box installed and operational.
   C.   The fire chief shall designate the type of key lock box system to be
implemented within the city and shall have the authority to require all
structures to use the designated system.
   D.   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock box
shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that will allow for access to
the structure.
   E.   The fire chief shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations
for the use of the lock box system.
   F.   Any person who owns or operates a structure subject to this section
shall be subject to the penalties set forth in title 1, chapter 4 of this code
for any violation of this section, provided that the minimum fine for a
conviction for a violation of this section shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 2011-07, 7-21-2011, eff. 7-22-2011)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Interpretation, Conflict, Effect
10-1-4: Changes And Amendments
10-1-5: Administration And Enforcement
10-1-6: Building Permit
10-1-7: Certificate Of Occupancy
10-1-8: Issuance Of Licenses And Permits
10-1-9: Nuisances
10-1-10: Territory Annexed To City
10-1-11: Penalty
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the UNIFORM ZONING ORDINANCE OF PLAIN CITY, UTAH.
(Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of the City, including, amongst other things, the lessening
of congestion on the streets or roads, securing safety from fire and other
danger, providing adequate light and air, the classification of land uses and
distribution of land development and utilization, protection of the tax base,
securing economy in governmental expenditures, protection of the environment,
and the protection of both urban and nonurban development of the City. (Ord.,
11-14-1974)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT, EFFECT:
   A.   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the
requirements contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for
the purpose set forth.
   B.   This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of
covenants, agreements, other ordinances or laws, but shall prevail
notwithstanding such provisions which are less restrictive.
   C.   The existing ordinances of the City governing the zoning of areas and
districts in the City in their entirety and including the maps heretofore
adopted and made a part of said ordinances are hereby superseded and amended to
read as set forth herein. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-1-4: CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS:
This title, including the maps, may be amended from time to time. All proposed
amendments shall be first submitted to the Planning Commission for a public
hearing and recommendation to the City Council. At least fifteen (15) days'
notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be posted according to the
Utah State Code. The City Council may overrule the Planning Commission's
recommendation by a majority vote of its members within thirty (30) days
following the final vote of the Planning Commission. The City Council may hold
a public hearing if deemed necessary. (Ord. 2011-09, 8-4-2011, eff. 8-5-2011)
10-1-5: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Purpose And Intent: The purpose of this title is to establish
regulations and procedures for the processing and consideration of zoning
applications.
   B.   Land Use Authority: The Planning Commission is designated as the Land
Use Authority for the approval of zoning applications including site plans and
conditional use permits.
   C.   Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. The Planning
Commission is designated as the Land Use Authority to interpret this title.
   D.   Fees For Processing Applications:
      1.   Fees for processing applications shall be established by the Plain
City consolidated fee schedule.
      2.   Applications that have been deemed complete and have not been
pursued with reasonable diligence before the appropriate board shall expire
after six (6) months. The applicant will have to submit a new application and
fees to restart the process.
   E.   Notice Of Decision: After hearing the evidence and considering the
application, the approving authority (Planning Commission), shall make its
findings and have them entered in the minutes. Upon a decision by the approving
authority, a notice of decision shall be mailed to the applicant at the address
or e-mail address given in the application. A notice of decision can be a
written notice or a copy of the approved minutes. A decision by the approving
authority is final at the time the notice of decision is issued. If a notice of
decision is not sent, the decision shall be final on the date the minutes from
the meeting are approved by the approving authority. The City Recorder shall
also mail notice of any decisions to any person or agency who, in writing,
requested such notification before the decision was rendered. Decisions are
subject to requirements and conditions stated in the staff report and listed in
the meeting minutes.
   F.   Hearing And Publication Notice For The Planning Commission And City
Council: At least ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of which shall be
given of any public hearing before the Planning Commission as per State Code.
(Ord. 2017-08, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
   G.   Chief Building Official; Authority: The chief building official is
hereby charged with the administration and enforcement of the provisions of
this title.
   H.   Permit; Certificate Of Occupancy; Reason For Denial: The chief building
official shall not grant a permit for the construction or alteration of any
building or structure, nor issue any certificate of occupancy for a change in
the use of land, if such construction or alteration or change would be in
violation or would involve a violation of any of the provisions of this title,
or any other ordinance of the City or of any law of the State.
   I.   Enforcement: The chief building official shall enforce all of the
provisions of this title. He shall inspect or cause to be inspected all of the
buildings in course of construction, alteration or repair, and any change in
the use of land. If, in the course of such inspection, or otherwise, it shall
come to his attention that any such construction, alteration or repair, or that
any use or contemplated use of land is in violation of the provisions of this
title, he shall issue his written order to the person responsible therefor,
ordering and directing such person to cease and desist such construction,
alteration, repair or use. He shall report violations of this title to the
City's Legal Department for prosecution and make complaint thereof before the
court or courts having jurisdiction of such violation. Upon the recommendation
of the City Council, the Legal Department shall bring a civil action for the
abatement of any nuisance existing in violation of this title.
   J.   Assistance With Investigation: The chief building official may call for
the assistance of law enforcement personnel whenever in his opinion such
assistance is necessary in the investigation of a suspected violation of this
title.
   K.   Rules And Regulations Established: The chief building official may
establish reasonable rules and regulations necessary or desirable in the
administration of this title. Three (3) copies of such rules and regulations
shall be filed with the City Recorder and such rules and regulations shall
become effective when so filed.
   L.   Fees Prescribed By City Council: The City Council may, by resolution,
prescribe an exact payment of reasonable fees to cover the expense of examining
plans, issuing building permits, inspecting uses and issuing certificates of
occupancy, and may determine the method of collecting such fees. (Ord., 11-14-
1974; amd. Ord. 2017-08, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-1-6: BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   Required; Exception: The construction, alteration, repair, removal or
occupancy of any structure or of any part thereof, as provided or as restricted
in this title, shall not be commenced or proceeded with, except after the
issuance of a written permit for the same by the chief building official;
provided, that no permit shall be necessary where the erection, construction,
reconstruction or alteration is minor in character as defined herein, or as
determined by the chief building official. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
   B.   Mapped Lines Of Streets Or Land Bordering Street: No building permit
shall be issued for any building or structure, or part thereof, on any land
located between the mapped lines of any street as shown on any official map
adopted by the City Council and no building permit shall be issued for any
building or structure, or part thereof, on any land bordering a street for
which an official map has been adopted unless the depth of the front yard for
such building or structure as required by this title is measured from the
mapped lines of said street as shown on the official map.
   C.   Appeals To Hearing Officer:
      1.   Any owner of land within or bordering a street for which an official
map has been adopted and for which a building permit has been refused by the
building inspector may appeal to the hearing officer.
      2.   The hearing officer shall have the power to authorize the grant of a
permit for a building or structure, or part thereof, within or adjoining any
mapped street location upon findings that:
         a.   The property of the appellant of which such mapped street
location forms a part will not yield a reasonable return to the owner unless
such permit be granted; or
         b.   Balancing the interest of the Municipality in preserving the
integrity of the official map and the interest of the owner in the use and
benefits of the property, the grant of such permit is required by a
consideration of justice and equity.
      3.   Before taking any action, the hearing officer shall hold a public
hearing thereon.
      4.   In the event that the hearing officer decides to authorize a
building permit, it shall have the power to specify the exact location, yard
and ground area, height and other details and conditions of extent and
character as it may determine, and also the duration of the building, structure
or part thereof to be permitted. (Ord. 78-13, 10-12-1978; amd. Ord. 2020-09, 5-
21-2020)
10-1-7: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building hereafter structurally
altered or erected shall be used or in use until a certificate of occupancy
shall have been issued by the chief building official stating that the building
or structure or the proposed use thereof, or the use of land, complies with the
provisions of this title. A like certificate shall be issued for the purpose of
maintaining, renewing, changing or extending a nonconforming use. A certificate
of occupancy either for the whole or a part of a building or structure shall be
applied for coincidentally with the application for a building permit and shall
be issued within ten (10) days after the erection or structural alteration of
such building or structure, or part thereof, shall have been completed in
conformity with the provisions of this title. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-1-8: ISSUANCE OF LICENSES AND PERMITS:
All departments, officials and public employees of the City, which are vested
with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses, shall conform to the
provisions of this title and shall issue no such permit or license for uses,
buildings or purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions
of this title, and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the
provisions of this title, shall be null and void. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-1-9: NUISANCES:
Any structure made or existing, and any use of land in violation of any
provision of this title is a public nuisance and may be abated by appropriate
proceedings. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-1-10: TERRITORY ANNEXED TO CITY:
At the time of the annexation of new territory to the City, the City Council,
after reviewing the recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall classify
such territory for zoning purposes according to the zones established by this
title. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, violating or causing or permitting the violation of any of the
provisions of this title shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Such person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty of
a separate offense for each and every day during which any portion of any
violation of this title is committed, maintained, continued or permitted by
such person, firm or corporation, and shall be punishable as herein provided.
(Ord., 11-14-1974; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and terms defined in this chapter shall have the meanings indicated.
Words used in the present tense include the future, and words in the singular
number include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular. Words
not included herein but defined elsewhere in the city ordinances shall be
construed as termed therein. The word "shall" is mandatory.
ACCESS STRIP: A strip of land which is part of a lot and provides access to the
part thereof used or to be used for buildings or structures.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening, but not including keeping or raising of domestic animals and fowl,
except household pets, and not including any agricultural industry or business,
such as fruit packing plants, fur farms, animals hospitals or similar uses.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare less than twenty six feet (26') wide.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Structure or building used to provide medical attention for
animals; may include temporary boarding of animals.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Building or structure designed to accommodate the boarding and
care of lost and stray animals and to conduct humane treatment thereof.
ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION: Any projection which is not intended for occupancy
and which extends beyond the face of an exterior wall of a building, but shall
not include signs.
BASEMENT: A story partly underground and having at least one-half (1/2) its
height above the average level of the adjoining ground. A basement shall be
counted as a story, for purposes of height measurement.
BLANKETING: The term "blanketing" or "blanket", when applied to signs or sign
structures, shall mean the partial or complete shutting off of the face of one
sign by another sign.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guest rooms where, for
compensation, meals are provided for at least five (5) but not more than
fifteen (15) persons.
BUILDING: Any structure other than a boundary wall or fence.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building or a portion of the main building
on a lot, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the main or
principal building.
BUILDING CODE: The current edition of the building code as adopted by the city.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
BUILDING FACADE: That portion of an exterior elevation of a building extending
from grade to the top of the parapet wall or eaves and the entire width of the
building elevation.
BUILDING FACADE FACING: A resurfacing of an existing facade with approved
material illuminated or nonilluminated.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the building finish grade to
the highest point of the parapet of a flat roof, or to the peak of a mansard
roof, or to the highest point of the ridge of a pitch or hip roof. The height
of a stepped or terraced building is the maximum height of any segment of the
building.
BUILDING, MAIN: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot
on which it is located.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The official or other person charged with the administration
and enforcement of this title or his duly authorized deputy.
BUILDING, PUBLIC: A building owned and operated, or owned and intended to be
operated by a public agency of the United States Of America, of the state of
Utah, or any of its political subdivisions.
CAR WASH, LAUNDRY TYPE: A structure or portion thereof containing facilities
for washing passenger automobiles, using production line methods such as, but
not limited to, chain conveyor, movable or revolving cleaning brushes, blower,
steam cleaning or similar mechanical devices.
CAR WASH, MANUAL SPRAY: A structure or portion thereof containing facilities
for washing passenger automobiles, limited to using only hand operated manual
spray cleaning equipment and techniques.
CATTERY: Land or building used in keeping of four (4) or more cats, four (4)
months or older.
CELLAR: A story having more than one-half (1/2) its height below the average
level of the adjoining ground. A cellar shall not be counted as a story for the
purpose of height measurement.
CHANGEABLE COPY PANEL: A panel which is characterized by changeable copy,
regardless of method of attachment.
CONTRACTOR: Any firm, partnership, corporation, association or other
organization, or any combination of them, who for compensation other than wages
as an employee undertakes any work in the construction, plumbing or electrical
trade for which a license is required under Utah state law and/or county or
local municipal law.
CONTRACTOR EQUIPMENT STORAGE YARD: The use of any lot or tract of land for the
primary and principal purpose of storing, keeping or maintaining machinery,
vehicles, materials or other equipment commonly used and associated with the
construction contractor's trade.
CONTRACTOR TRADE: Any trade, business or occupation involving the construction,
alteration, remodeling, repairing, wrecking or demolition, addition to or
improvement of any building, highway, road, railroad, dam, bridge, structure,
excavation or other project, development or improvement to other than personal
property.
COOP: A pen or an enclosure for birds.
CORRAL: A space, other than a building, less than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet in area, and less than one hundred feet (100') in width, used for the
confinement of animals.
COURT: An unoccupied open space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or buildings, which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by the walls
of such building or buildings.
COVERAGE, LOT: The percent of the lot area covered by the main and accessory
buildings.
DAIRY: A commercial establishment for the manufacture, processing, or sale of
dairy products.
DAYCARE CENTER: A building or structure where children are regularly cared for
during the day for compensation. It must meet the requirements of the Utah
state division of welfare.
DAYCARE HOME: Dwelling used to care for up to five (5) children not related to
the immediate family. It must meet the requirements of the Utah state division
of welfare.
DISABILITY: A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of a person's major life activities, including a person having a record of
such an impairment, or being regarded as having such an impairment.
"Disability" does not include current illegal use of, or addiction to, any
federally controlled substance, as defined in section 102 of the controlled
substances act, 21 USC 802, or successor law. As used in this definition:
   A.   "Physical or mental impairment" includes:
      1. Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or
anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including
speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
      2. Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation,
organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning
disabilities. The term physical or mental impairment includes, but is not
limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech and
hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, autism, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy,
multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, human immunodeficiency
virus infection, mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction (other
than addiction caused by current, illegal use of a controlled substance) and
alcoholism.
   B.   "Major life activities" means functions such as caring for oneself,
performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing,
learning and working.
   C.   "Has a record of such an impairment" means a person who has a history
of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that
substantially limits one or more major life activities.
   D.   "Is regarded as having an impairment" means a person who:
      1. Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit
one or more major life activities, but that is treated by another person as
constituting such a limitation;
      2. Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward
such impairment; or
      3. Has none of the impairments defined in subsection A of this
definition, but is treated by another person as having such an impairment.
DOG RUN: An enclosure located in a portion of the rear yard of a lot, said
enclosure being used for the keeping of dogs. Enclosure of the entire rear yard
for the enclosure of dogs does not constitute a dog run.
DRY CLEANER: An establishment which has as its sole purpose the cleansing of
fabrics with substantially nonaqueous organic solvents. Laundry establishments
with self-service, coin operated dry cleaning machines shall not be classified
as a dry cleaner.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed or used as the living quarters
for one or more families.
DWELLING, GROUP: Two (2) or more dwellings placed upon a single lot.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
three (3) or more families.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by one
family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two (2)
families, the structure having a common wall or continuous roof.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling, apartment, hotel or apartment
hotel designed for or occupied by one family for living, sleeping and eating
purposes. A dwelling unit may contain more than one set of kitchen facilities,
whether temporary or permanent, provided they are used only by members of the
family occupying the dwelling unit or their nonpaying guests. A dwelling unit
may include up to two (2) persons per unit to whom rooms are rented in addition
to a family related by blood, marriage or adoption, but if the number of such
additional persons exceeds two (2) or if they use or are furnished separate
cooking facilities, whether temporary or permanent, such additional persons
shall be considered a separate dwelling unit.
DWELLING UNIT, BACHELOR OR BACHELORETTE: A dwelling unit designed or used to
accommodate unrelated persons exclusively.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION: A public elementary or secondary school or a private
educational institution having a curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in
public schools.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, plus
domestic servants employed for service on the premises, or a group of bachelors
or bachelorettes of not more than four (4) persons who need not be so related,
living together as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit.
FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION: The keeping of not more than one cow, two (2) calves,
two (2) pigs, two (2) sheep, two (2) goats, ten (10) rabbits, fifty (50)
chickens or similar fowl, with no more than fifteen (15) chickens or similar
fowl over five (5) months of age, fifteen (15) pheasants or similar game birds,
five (5) turkeys, five (5) ducks, five (5) geese, and twenty (20) pigeons,
provided that no more than three (3) of the above kinds of animals and fowl are
permitted at any one time on any lot of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or
larger up to one and one-half (11/2) acres. For any lot smaller than twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet only one of the above listed kinds of animals and
fowl are permitted; excluding cows, calves, and pigs.
Any other animals used for family food production not listed above requires
petition to city council for approval or nonapproval as a conditional use.
FENCE: A tangible barrier or obstruction of any material, with the purpose or
intent, or having the effect, of preventing passage or view across the fence
line. It includes hedges and walls.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of a
building and its accessory buildings on the same lot, excluding cellar and
basement floor areas not devoted to residential use, but including the area of
roofed terraces. All dimensions shall be measured from the exterior faces of
the exterior walls.
FLOOR LOT AREA RATIO: The total floor area of a building divided by the area of
the lot on which it is located.
FOWL: Chickens including one rooster per eight (8) to ten (10) hens or similar
fowl over six (6) months of age with a limit of thirty (30) under six (6)
months of age, geese, ducks, turkeys, peacocks, pigeons, pheasants or similar
game birds in any combinations as per section
10-8-6 of this title. All other fowl not mentioned are not allowed in any zone
smaller than five (5) acres.
FRATERNITY OR SORORITY HOUSE: A building occupied by and maintained exclusively
for students affiliated with an academic or professional college or university
or other recognized institution of higher learning, and when acknowledged by
such institution.
FRONT LOT LINE: The property line of the lot fronting or abutting one side of
the street and/or right-of-way towards which the front line of a main building
faces or may face. Frontage at curved streets or on the ends of cul-de-sacs
shall meet the required lot width at the setback line.
FRONTAGE: The distance between the two (2) side lot lines of a parcel measured
along the street, to which the parcel is allowed main access. No state or
federal highway to which no access is allowed shall be considered as frontage.
Frontage on a corner lot shall be limited to one street only.
GARAGE, CARPORT: A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors.
For the purpose of this title, a carport shall be subject to all of the
regulations prescribed for a private garage.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An enclosed space or accessory building for the storage of one
or more motor vehicles; provided, that no business, occupation or service is
conducted for profit therein nor space therein for more than one car is leased
to a nonresident of the premises. A garage shall be considered part of a
dwelling if the garage and dwelling have a roof or wall in common, or are
connected structurally by a physical connection such as a wall, trellis or
solid fence.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling or
storing motor driven vehicles.
GRADE: The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of those buildings more than five feet (5') from a street line.
For buildings closer than five feet (5') to a street line, the grade is the
sidewalk elevation at the center of the building. If there is more than one
street, an average sidewalk elevation is to be used. If there is no sidewalk,
the city engineer may establish the grade.
GUESTHOUSE: A separate dwelling structure located on a lot with one or more
main dwelling structures and used for housing of guests or servants and not
rented, leased or sold separate from the rental, lease or sale of the main
dwelling.
HOME OCCUPATION: An income producing use of residential property, carried on
wholly within the dwelling unit, which is incidental, secondary and compatible
with the residential uses permitted by the zoning within the zone that property
is located; provided, that each of the conditions of chapter 13 of this title
is complied with.
HORSES, MULES, DONKEYS, AND LLAMAS: Any two (2) of these may be kept on a lot
of at least twenty thousand (20,000) square feet in size that can meet all
setback and side yard requirements for the zone in which it is contained. No
horses, mules, donkeys, or llamas may be kept on lots of less than twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet. With no more than one additional horse, mule,
donkey, or llama for each additional twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
HOTEL: A building designed for or occupied as the more or less temporary
abiding place of sixteen (16) or more individuals who are, for compensation,
lodged, with or without meals.
HOUSEHOLD PETS: Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept for
company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats or canaries, but not including a
sufficient number of dogs or cats to constitute a "kennel" or "cattery", as
defined in this Code.
INCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: Any material which will not ignite at or below a
temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200°F) during an
exposure of five (5) minutes, and will not continue to burn or glow at that
temperature. Tests shall be made as specified in the Building Code.
INTERNAL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: A unit located within a primary dwelling that
is within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal
accessory dwelling unit is created, and used for the purpose of offering a
long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.
JUNKYARD: The use of any lot, portion of a lot, or tract of land for the
storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap
materials, or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles, or
other vehicles, or machinery or parts thereof; provided, that this definition
shall not be deemed to include such uses which are clearly accessory and
incidental to any agricultural use permitted in the zone. Any motor vehicle not
properly registered and licensed for the current year may be classified as
junk.
KENNEL: The land or buildings used in the keeping of four (4) or more dogs at
least four (4) months old.
LANDSCAPE OR LANDSCAPING: The installation of living plant material (i.e., turf
grasses or turf type fescues, ground cover, annual and perennial flowering
plants, vines, shrubs, and trees) planted directly on the property and kept
free from all hard surfaces.
LAUNDROMAT OR LAUNDERETTE: A self-service laundry establishment where clothes
are cleansed in a coin operated machine. Laundromats or launderettes may
include self-service, coin operated dry cleaning machines.
LIVESTOCK: One cow, two (2) calves, two (2) pigs, two (2) sheep, two (2) goats,
and ten (10) rabbits provided that no more than three (3) of the above kinds of
livestock are permitted at any one time on any lot of twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet or larger up to one and one-half (11/2) acres. For any lot smaller
than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet only one of the above listed kinds of
livestock are permitted excluding cows, calves, and pigs. All setback
restrictions shall be met as per subsection 10-8-6A of this title.
LODGING HOUSE: A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
five (5) or more, but not exceeding fifteen (15) persons, in contrast to
hotels.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building or group of
buildings (main or accessory), together with such yards, open space, lot width
and lot area as are required by this title and having frontage upon a street.
Except for group dwellings and guesthouses, not more than one dwelling
structure shall occupy any one lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) intersecting streets where the interior
angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
MAINTAIN: Includes, but is not limited to, the following: service, repair,
alter, remodel, reletter, redecorate, repaint, move or remove. It does not
include the removal of signs by a licensed wrecking contractor. Owner or lessee
of sign may repaint, redecorate and/or change letters or panels on his own
sign.
MAP, OFFICIAL: Any map adopted by the City Council.
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS: A vendor that serves food or beverages from a self-
contained unit either motorized or in a trailer on wheels and is readily
movable and does not require assembly or disassembly.
MOBILE HOME:
   A.   A transportable structure in one or more sections with plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and/or electrical systems contained therein for
connection to the appropriate external utility which when erected on a site,
may be used with or without a permanent foundation as a dwelling, or for other
occupancy of whatever nature, by persons.
   B.   A mobile home is a structure designed for repeated moves, whether or
not it is constructed on a permanent chassis, has wheels, axles or hitching
posts attached or removed, was or may be towed, driven or otherwise transported
to its resting site, or has been joined into one integral unit.
   C.   A structure may be regarded as a mobile home even though it is
constructed of materials other than a metal frame and superstructure and/or
with metal siding.
   D.   A factory built, presectionalized, modular, prefab or prebuilt home,
consisting of one or more towable units designed to be joined into one unit,
which: 1) is attached to a permanent foundation and, upon being tied to the
foundation, could be moved only as a stick built home with the use of regular
house moving equipment; 2) conforms to the city's building and housing codes;
and 3) is constructed much like a conventional dwelling, shall not be regarded
as a mobile home. If all three (3) of the above criteria are not met, the
structure shall be regarded as a mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for the
placement of mobile homes for residential use.
MOTEL: Any building or group of buildings containing sleeping rooms, designed
for temporary use by automobile tourists or transients, with garage attached or
parking space conveniently located to each unit.
NATURAL WATERWAYS: Those areas, varying in width, along streams, creeks,
gulleys, springs or washes which are natural drainage channels as determined by
the chief building official and in which areas no buildings shall be
constructed.
NIGHTCLUB: A place of entertainment open at night usually serving food and
liquor, having a floor show, and providing music and space for dancing.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or structure, or portion thereof, lawfully
existing at the time any applicable zoning regulations become effective, the
design, erection, use, height, area and yard dimensions of which do not conform
to the provisions of such regulation or regulations.
NONCONFORMING USE: The prior lawful use of land or of a building or structure
which subsequently is prohibited by zoning regulations pertaining to the zone.
NURSERY: See definition of Daycare Center.
OPEN GREEN SPACE: An open space suitable for relaxation or landscaping. It
shall be unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings and/or hard surfaces such as
asphalt, cement and packed gravel, except that such open green space may be
traversed by necessary sidewalks.
PARCEL OF LAND: A contiguous quantity of land, in the possession of, or owned
by or recorded as the property of the same claimant or person.
PARKING LOT: An open area, other than a street, used for parking of more than
four (4) automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for
compensation or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: Space within a building, lot or parking lot for parking or
storage of one automobile.
PAYING GUEST: Any person hiring a room in a dwelling unit for living, eating or
sleeping purposes.
PEN: An enclosure or area used to contain domesticated animals or livestock.
PERFORMING ARTS STUDIO: A building used for the teaching of performance art
skills of high principles and moral standards.
PERSON: One or more persons, an association, a copartnership or a corporation
or firm, either by themselves or by an agent, employee, guardian or trustee.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of Plain City, Utah.
PRIMARY DWELLING: A single-family dwelling that is occupied as the primary
residence of the owner of record.
PRIVATE DRIVE: Nondedicated thoroughfare or road used exclusively for private
access to and from private land and/or developments.
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION: A change in a rule, policy, practice, or service
necessary to afford a person with a disability equal opportunity to use and
enjoy a dwelling. As used in this definition:
   A.   "Reasonable" means a requested accommodation will not undermine the
legitimate purposes of existing zoning regulations, notwithstanding the benefit
that the accommodation would provide to a person with a disability.
   B.   "Necessary" means the applicant must show that, but for the
accommodation, one or more persons with a disability likely will be denied an
equal opportunity to enjoy housing of their choice.
   C.   "Equal opportunity" means achieving equal results as between a person
with a disability and a nondisabled person.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle equipped with a living space and amenities for
brief leisure, recreational, and emergency activities such as a motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper, or camping trailer, with or without motive power.
   A.   It contains less than three hundred twenty (320) square feet of
internal living room area, excluding built in equipment, including, but not
limited to, wardrobe, closets, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures, and bath or
toilet rooms.
   B.   It contains four hundred (400) square feet or less of gross area
measured at maximum horizontal projections.
   C.   It is built on a single chassis.
   D.   It is either self-propelled, truck mounted, or permanently towable on
the highways without a permit.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Any area or tract of land or a separate designated
section within a mobile home park where lots are rented or held out for rent to
one or more owners or users of recreational vehicles for a temporary time not
to exceed two (2) weeks.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY: A general term for the following types of facilities as
defined within this section:
   A.   Residential facility for elderly persons.
   B.   Residential facility for persons with a disability.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS: A single-family or multiple-family
dwelling unit that meets the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 17-
27a-515 to 518, as amended.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY: A residence in which more
than one person with a disability resides and which is licensed or certified
by:
   A.   The Utah department of human services under Utah Code Annotated section
62A-2-101 et seq., as amended, or
   B.   The Utah department of health under Utah Code Annotated section 26-21-
3 et seq., as amended.
Treatment is not a necessary component of a residential facility for persons
with a disability, but may be provided upon request. Any treatment provided
shall be clearly ancillary to the use of the facility as a residence.
RESIDENTIAL SUPPORT:
   A.   Arranging for or providing the necessities of life as a protective
service to individuals or families who are disabled or who are experiencing a
dislocation or emergency that prevents them from providing these services for
themselves or their families.
   B.   "Residential support" includes providing a supervised living
environment for persons with:
      1. Dysfunctions or impairments that are:
         a. Emotional;
         b. Psychological;
         c. Developmental; or
         d. Behavioral.
      2. Chemical dependencies.
   C.   Treatment is not a necessary component of residential support.
   D.   "Residential support" does not include residential services that are
performed:
      1. Exclusively under contract with the division of services for people
with disabilities; and
      2. In a facility that serves less than four (4) individuals.
RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY: A twenty four (24) hour group living
environment that offers room or board and specialized treatment, behavior
modification, rehabilitation, discipline, emotional growth, or habilitation
services for persons with emotional, psychological, developmental, or
behavioral dysfunctions, impairments, or chemical dependencies. The individuals
served within a residential treatment facility may be classified as disabled,
but as treatment is the primary reason for residing in the facility, the
facility does not qualify as a residential facility for persons with a
disability. Residential treatment facility does not include a boarding school
or foster home.
RUN: An enclosure for an animal or livestock.
SHOPPING CENTER: Multi-entity commercial complex under single ownership which
leases space to various commercial establishments.
SHOW/HOBBY FOWL: For legal purposes, fowl raised for groups such as 4-H, FFA,
etc., fowl being raised for show events, and fowl raised for feather harvesting
are limited to a rooster over six (6) months of age at a ratio of two to one
(2:1) per the regular fowl regulations as long as there are no nuisance
ordinance concerns.
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: Established regulations concerning lot areas, yard
setbacks, building height, lot coverage, open green space and any other special
regulations deemed necessary to accomplish the purpose of this title.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached, accessory building for the keeping of horses owned
by the occupants of the premises, and not kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A stable other than a private stable.
STORY: The space within a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the ceiling next above.
STORY, HALF: A story with at least two (2) of its sides situated in a sloping
roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the floor
immediately below it.
STREET: A public thoroughfare, dedicated, abandoned or condemned for public use
prior to the initial enactment of the ordinance codified herein, which affords
the principal means of access of abutting property and is more than twenty six
feet (26') wide, and any public thoroughfare dedicated to the public and
accepted by proper public authority or condemned for public use after said
date.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in supporting members of a building such as
bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground, or attachment to something having location on the ground.
STUDIO: A building or portion thereof used for professional work, teaching,
performance or exhibition of the fine arts.
SWIMMING POOL: Any artificial or semiartificial container, whether outdoor or
indoor, and whether above or below the surface of the ground, or both, used or
intended to be used to contain a body of water for swimming by any person or
persons, together with all permanent structures, equipment, appliances, and
other facilities used or intended for use in and about the operation,
maintenance and use of such pool.
SWIMMING POOL, FAMILY: A swimming pool used and intended to be used solely by
the owner, operator or lessee thereof and his family and by friends invited to
use it without payment of any fee or consideration.
TAVERN: Any business establishment operating under a class C beer license. Such
establishment shall be limited in number to two (2) per linear block.
THEATER, INDOOR PICTURE: A building or part of a building devoted to the
showing of moving pictures on a paid admission basis.
THEATER, OUTDOOR DRIVE-IN: An open lot or part thereof, with its appurtenant
facilities devoted primarily to the showing of moving pictures, on a paid
admission basis, to patrons seated in automobiles.
TRIM, NONSTRUCTURAL: The moulding, battens, nailing strips, latticing, cutouts
or letters and walkways which are attached to the sign structure.
USE: The specific purposes for which land or a building is designed, arranged,
intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use customarily incidental to and located upon
the same lot occupied by the main use and devoted exclusively to the main use
of the premises.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A use or occupancy of a building, or use of land, permitted
only when authorized upon issuance of a conditional use permit and subject to
the limitation and conditions specified therein as provided in chapter 10 of
this title, intended to allow compatible integration of uses which may be
suitable only in certain locations within a particular zone, or only upon
certain conditions and/or design criteria being achieved.
USE, PERMITTED: Any use lawfully occupying land or buildings as authorized in
the zone regulations and for which no conditional use permit is required.
YARD, REAR: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the rear line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the rear lot line and
extending the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the rear yard is the
minimum distance between the rear lot line and the rear line of the main
building.
YARD, SIDE: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building, between
the side line of the building (exclusive of steps), and the side lot line and
extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
ZONE: The geographical area of the City within which the zoning regulations are
uniform.
ZONING CLEARANCE: An acknowledgment, provided by the Zoning Administrator, or
designee, identifying that the proposed use, building, structure, or facility
complies to the requirements of this title.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance of Plain City, Utah.
(Ord., 11-14-1974; amd. Ord. 77-1, 2-24-1977; Ord. 82-2, 2-11-1982; Ord. 85-5,
9-12-1985; Ord. 86-01, 1-9-1986; Ord. 86-09, 11-13-1986; Ord. 88-02, 5-12-1988;
Ord. 91-07, 10-24-1991; 2003 Code; Ord. 2003-10, 11-20-2003, eff. 11-20-2003;
Ord. 2008-11, 9-6-2008, eff. retroactive to 9-5-2008; Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009,
eff. 9-3-2009; Ord. 2009-11, 12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009; Ord. 2011-09, 8-4-2011,
eff. 8-5-2011; Ord. 2013-08, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013; Ord. 2014-15, 5-15-
2014, eff. 5-15-2014; Ord. 2017-05, 2-16-2017, eff. 2-16-2017; Ord. 2018-01, 1-
4-2018, eff. 1-4-2018; Ord. 2022-06, 5-5-2022, eff. 5-5-2022; Ord. 2022-08, 5-
19-2022, eff. 5-19-2022; Ord. 2023-16, 10-19-2023, eff 10-19-2023; Ord. 2025-
04, 2-20-2025)
CHAPTER 3
ZONES ESTABLISHED
SECTION:
10-3-1: Establishment Of Zones
10-3-2: Boundaries Of Zones
10-3-3: Rules Applicable Where Boundaries Uncertain
10-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES:
For the purpose of this title, the City is divided into the following zones in
which land uses shall be limited as specified in this title. Classification
will be determined on the basis of location, topographic features and other
reasonable considerations to guide the orderly physical growth, neighborhood
compatibility and overall stability of the City.
A-1     Agricultural Zone
A-2     Agricultural Zone
RE-15   Residential Estate Zone
RE-18.5 Residential Estate Zone
RE-20   Residential Estate Zone
R-1-11  Single-Family Residential Zone
RE-30   Residential Zone
RE-40   Residential Zone
C-1     Neighborhood Commercial Zone
C-2     General Commercial Zone
C-3     Transitional Commercial and Manufacturing Zone
SHO     Senior Housing Overlay Zone
       Mixed Use Overlay Zone
       Residential Overlay Zone
 
(Ord. 2011-01, 1-6-2011, eff. 1-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-
20-2017; Ord. 2019-01, 1-3-2019, eff. 1-4-2019; Ord. 2019-02, 1-3-2019, eff. 1-
4-2019; Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019)
10-3-2: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
The boundaries of each of the said zones are hereby established as described
herein or as shown on the map entitled "zoning map of Plain City", or as
hereafter amended, a copy of which is attached to the ordinance codified
herein, and all boundaries, notations and other data shown on said maps are
made by this reference as much a part of this title as if fully described and
detailed herein. Said maps shall be filed in the custody of the City Recorder
and may be examined by the public subject to any reasonable regulations
established by the City Recorder. (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd. 2003 Code)
10-3-3: RULES APPLICABLE WHERE BOUNDARIES UNCERTAIN:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules
shall apply:
   A.   Wherever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the
centerline of a street, alley or block, or along a property line, then unless
otherwise definitely indicated on the map, the centerline of such street, alley
or block, or such property line, shall be construed to be the boundary of such
zone.
   B.   Wherever such boundary lines of such zone are indicated as being
approximately at the line of any river, irrigation canal or other waterway, or
railroad right-of-way, or public park or other public land, or any section
line, then in such case the center of such stream, canal or waterway, or of
such railroad right-of-way, or the boundary line of such public land or such
section line shall be deemed to be the boundary of such zone.
   C.   Where such zone boundary lines cannot be determined by the above rules,
their location may be found by the use of the scale appearing upon the map.
   D.   Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the zone
boundary location, the hearing officer shall interpret the map. (Ord., 11-14-
1974; amd. Ord. 2020-09, 5-21-2020)
CHAPTER 4
AGRICULTURAL ZONES A-1 AND A-2
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose And Intent
10-4-2: Permitted Uses
10-4-3: Conditional Uses
10-4-4: Site Development Standards
10-4-5: Sign Regulations
10-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of the A-1 and A-2 zones is to designate farm areas which are
likely to undergo a more intensive urban development, to set up guidelines to
continue agriculture pursuits, including the keeping of farm animals, and to
direct orderly low density residential development in a continuing rural
environment. (Ord. 2011-01, 1-6-2011, eff. 1-6-2011)
10-4-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any permitted use.
Agriculture, or agricultural experiment station.
Animals or fowl kept for family food production.
Cemetery.
Chinchilla raising.
Fruit or vegetable storage packing plant or stand for fruit or vegetables
produced only on the premises.
Golf course, except miniature golf course.
Greenhouse and nursery limited to sale of materials produced on premises and
with no retail shop operation.
Home occupation.
Horses, mules, donkeys, or llamas for private use only, and provided that not
more than two (2) of these animals may be kept for the first twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet within any lot.
Household pets.
Livestock, horses, mules, donkeys, or llamas or fowl kept as per section
10-8-6 of this title.
Parking lot accessory to uses permitted in this zone.
Private park, playground or recreation area, but not including privately owned
commercial amusement business.
Residential facility for elderly persons.
Residential facility for persons with a disability.
Single-family dwelling.
Stable or building for keeping animals or fowl, provided such use shall be
located not closer to a public street than thirty feet (30').
Temporary buildings or uses incidental to construction work. Such building
shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work.
Two-family dwellings (duplexes); provided, that:
   A.   The duplexes are constructed on a minimum lot area of one-half (1/2)
acre (21,780 square feet);
   B.   The minimum frontage of said lot is one hundred fifty feet (150'); and
   C.   If the duplex is constructed in a subdivision, then lots utilized for
the construction of duplexes do not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total lots
in the subdivision. (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd. Ord. 81-2, 3-26-1981; Ord. 86-09,
11-13-1986; Ord. 88-01, 4-14-1988; 2003 Code; Ord. 2003-10, 11-20-2003, eff.
11-20-2003; Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009, eff. 9-3-2009; Ord. 2011-09, 8-4-2011, eff.
8-5-2011)
10-4-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses shall be permitted only when authorized by a conditional use
permit obtained as provided in chapter 10 of this title:
Church, synagogue, or similar permanent building used for regular religious
worship.
Educational institution.
Kennels and catteries.
Private park, playground or recreation area not open to the general public and
to which no admission charge is made, but not including privately owned
commercial amusement business.
Public building, public park, recreation grounds, and association buildings.
Public utility substation, utility lines, or water storage reservoir, or any
other utility facility to be erected on the surface of the ground or over the
ground developed by a public or private agency other than those to be located
in the right of way of an existing street or highway.
Radio or television station or tower.
Wastewater treatment or disposal facilities meeting the requirements of the
Utah state division of health code waste regulations. (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd.
Ord. 2008-11, 9-6-2008, eff. retroactive to 9-5-2008; Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009,
eff. 9-3-2009)
10-4-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A. Minimum lot area                     40,000 square feet
B. Minimum lot width                    150 feet
C. Minimum yard setbacks:                
                                         40 feet, except average of existing
  1. Front                             buildings where 50 percent frontage is
                                         developed, but not less than 30 feet
  2. Side:                              
     a. Dwelling                    10 feet with total width of 2 side
                                         yards not less than 24 feet
     b. Other main building         20 feet each side
     c. Accessory building          10 feet, except 5 feet if located at
                                         least 6 feet in rear of main building
  3. Side facing street on corner lot  30 feet
  4. Rear:                              
     a. Main building               30 feet
                                         5 feet, except 10 feet where accessory
     b. Accessory building          building rears on side yard of
                                         adjacent corner lot
D. Building height:                      
  1. Minimum                           1 story
  2. Maximum                           21/2 stories or 35 feet
 
(Ord. 2011-01, 1-6-2011, eff. 1-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2024-08, 12-5-2024)
10-4-5: SIGN REGULATIONS:
The type, height, size and location of signs shall be in accordance with the
regulations as set forth in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL ESTATE ZONES RE-15, RE-18.5, RE-20
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Purpose And Intent
10-5A-2: Permitted Uses
10-5A-3: Conditional Uses
10-5A-4: Site Development Standards
10-5A-5: Sign Regulations
10-5A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The major purpose of the RE-15, RE-18.5, and RE-20 Zones is to provide and
protect residential development at a low density in a semi-agricultural or
rural environment. It is also to provide for certain rural amenities, on larger
minimum lots, in conjunction with the primary residential nature of the zone.
(Ord. 2019-01, 1-3-2019, eff. 1-4-2019)
10-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory building or use customarily incidental to a permitted use.
Agriculture.
Animals and fowl kept for family food production.
Chinchilla raising.
Corral, stable or building for keeping of animals or fowl, provided such
building shall be located not less than one hundred feet (100') from a public
street.
Golf course, except miniature golf.
Greenhouse and nursery limited to sale of material produced on premises and
with no retail shop operation.
Home occupation.
Horses, mules, donkeys, or llamas for private use only, provided that not more
than two (2) of these animals may be kept for the first twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet within any lot.
Household pets.
Livestock, horses, mules, donkeys, or llamas or fowl kept as per section
10-8-6 of this title.
Parking lot accessory to use permitted in this zone.
Private stables, provided they meet all setback requirements; horses, mules,
donkeys, and llamas for private use only and provided that not more than two
(2) of these animals may be kept for the first twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet within any lot.
Residential facility for elderly persons.
Residential facility for persons with a disability.
Single-family dwelling.
Temporary building or use incidental to construction work. Such building shall
be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work.
Two-family dwellings (duplexes); provided, that:
   A.   The duplexes are constructed on a minimum lot area of one-half (1/2)
acre (21,780 square feet);
   B.   The minimum frontage of said lot is one hundred fifty feet (150'); and
   C.   If the duplex is constructed in a subdivision, then lots utilized for
the construction of duplexes do not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total lots
in the subdivision. (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd. Ord. 81-2, 3-26-1981; Ord. 86-09,
11-13-1986; Ord. 88-01, 4-14-1988; 2003 Code; Ord. 2003-10, 11-20-2003, eff.
11-20-2003; Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009, eff. 9-3-2009; Ord. 2011-09, 8-4-2011, eff.
8-5-2011)
10-5A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses shall be permitted only when authorized by a conditional use
permit as provided in chapter 10 of this title:
Church, synagogue, or similar permanent building used for regular religious
worship.
Cluster subdivision.
Educational institution.
Planned residential unit development.
Private park, playground or recreation area not open to the general public and
to which no admission is made, and not including privately owned commercial
amusement business.
Public building, public park, recreation grounds, and association buildings.
Public utility substation, utility lines, or water storage reservoir, or any
other utility facility to be erected on the surface of the ground or over the
ground developed by a public or private agency other than those to be located
in the right-of-way of an existing street or highway. (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd.
Ord. 2001-04, 5-3-2001, eff. 5-3-2001; Ord. 2002-13, 11-7-2002, eff. 11-7-2002;
Ord. 2008-11, 9-6-2008, eff. retroactive to 9-5-2008; Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009,
eff. 9-3-2009)
10-5A-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
  RE-15 RE-18.5 RE-20
                      RE-15              RE-18.5            RE-20
A. Minimum lot area   15,000 square feet 18,500 square feet 20,000 square feet
B. Minimum lot width  100 feet           100 feet           100 feet
C. Minimum yard                                            
   setbacks:
  1. Front           30 feet, except if 50 percent of approved subdivision/
                      phase is completed, then not less than 40 feet
  2. Side:                                                 
  a. Dwelling        10 feet with total width of 2 side yards not less than 24
                      feet
  b. Accessory       10 feet, except 5 feet if located at least 6 feet in rear
   building           of main building
   3. Side, facing
  street on corner   30 feet            30 feet            30 feet
   lot
  4. Rear:                                                 
  a. Main building   30 feet            30 feet            30 feet
  b. Accessory       5 feet, except 10 feet where accessory building rears on
   building           side yard of adjacent corner lot
D. Main building height:                                    
  1. Minimum         1 story            1 story            1 story
  2. Maximum         21/2 stories or 35 feet
                      No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than ten
                      feet (10'), and no accessory building in a residential
   Accessory building zone shall be erected to a height greater than twenty-
E. height:            five feet (25'). See Examples (
                      Figures #1,
                      #2 and
                      #3)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1697.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1699.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1701.jpg]
(Ord. 2019-01, 1-3-2019, eff. 1-4-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-18, 12-7-2023)
10-5A-5: SIGN REGULATIONS:
The type, height, size and location of signs shall be in accordance with the
regulations as set forth in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
ARTICLE B. SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE R-1-11
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Purpose And Intent
10-5B-2: Permitted Uses
10-5B-3: Conditional Uses
10-5B-4: Site Development Standards
10-5B-5: Sign Regulations
10-5B-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of the R-1-11 zone classification is to provide for single-family
residential use at a low density level. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-5B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory building and use customarily incidental to any permitted use.
Agriculture.
Golf course, except miniature golf course.
Greenhouse, noncommercial only.
Home occupation.
Household pets.
Livestock, horses, mules, donkeys, or llamas or fowl kept as per section
10-8-6 of this title.
Parking lot accessory to uses permitted in this zone.
Private stables; horses for private use only and provided that not more than
two (2) horses may be kept for the first twenty thousand (20,000) square foot
lot and no more than one horse for each additional twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet within any lot.
Residential facility for elderly persons.
Residential facility for persons with a disability.
Single-family dwelling.
Temporary building for use incidental to construction work. Such building shall
be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work.
Two-family dwellings (duplexes); provided, that:
   A.   The duplexes are constructed on a minimum lot area of one-half (1/2)
acre (21,780 square feet);
   B.   The minimum frontage of said lot is one hundred fifty feet (150'); and
   C.   If the duplex is constructed in a subdivision, then lots utilized for
the construction of duplexes do not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total lots
in the subdivision. (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd. Ord. 81-2, 3-26-1981; Ord. 86-09,
11-13-1986; Ord. 88-01, 4-14-1988; 2003 Code; Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009, eff. 9-3-
2009; Ord. 2011-09, 8-4-2011, eff. 8-5-2011)
10-5B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses shall be permitted only when authorized by a conditional use
permit as provided in chapter 10 of this title:
Church, synagogue, or similar permanent building used for regular religious
worship.
Cluster subdivision.
Educational institution.
Library.
Museum.
Planned residential unit development.
Private park, playground or recreation area, but not including privately owned
commercial amusement business.
Public building, public park, recreation grounds, and association buildings.
Public utility substation, utility lines, or water storage reservoir, or any
other facility to be erected on the surface of the ground or over the ground
developed by a public or private agency other than those to be located in the
right of way of an existing street or highway. (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd. Ord.
2002-13, 11-7-2002, eff. 11-7-2002; Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009, eff. 9-3-2009)
10-5B-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A. Minimum lot area                     11,000 square feet
B. Minimum lot width                    100 feet
C. Minimum yard setbacks:
  1. Front                             30 feet
  2. Side:
     a. Dwelling                    10 feet with total width of 2 side
                                        yards not less than 24 feet
                                        10 feet, except 5 feet if located at
     b. Accessory building          least 6 feet from rear of main building
                                        but not closer than 10 feet to dwelling
                                        on adjacent lot
                                        30 feet, except average of existing
  3. Side facing street on corner lot  building where 50 percent frontage is
                                        developed but not less than 20 feet
  4. Rear:
     a. Main building               30 feet
                                        5 feet, except 10 feet where accessory
     b. Accessory building          building rears on side yard of adjacent
                                        corner lot
D. Main building height:
  1. Minimum                           1 story
  2. Maximum                           21/2 stories or 35 feet
                                        No dwelling shall be erected to a
                                        height less than ten feet (10'), and no
                                        accessory building in a residential
                                        zone shall be erected to a height
E. Accessory building height:           greater than twenty-five feet (25').
                                        See Examples (
                                        Figures #1,
                                        #2 and
                                        #3)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1703.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1705.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1707.jpg]
(Ord., 11-14 -1974; amd. Ord. 79-4, 7-26-1 979; Ord. 84-2, 2-9-19 84; Ord. 89-
02 , 7-13- 1989; Ord. 2023- 18, 12-7-2 023)
10-5B-5: SIGN REGULATIONS:
The type, height, size and locations of signs shall be in accordance with the
regulations as set forth in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
ARTICLE C. RESIDENTIAL ZONES RE-30, RE-40
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Purpose And Intent
10-5C-2: Permitted Uses
10-5C-3: Conditional Uses
10-5C-4: Site Development Standards
10-5C-5: Sign Regulations
10-5C-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The major purpose of the RE-30 and RE-40 Zones is to support a very low density
residential environment within the City which is characterized by large lots,
well spaced buildings, well kept lawns, trees and other landscaping with the
nature of the environment substantially undisturbed, and quiet residential
conditions favorable for family life. Representative of the uses within the RE-
30 and RE-40 Zones are single-family dwellings, schools, churches, parks,
playgrounds and other community facilities designed in harmony with the
characteristics of the zone. Multi-family dwellings, commercial and industrial
use areas are strictly prohibited in these zones. (Ord. 94-16, 10-12-1994; amd.
Ord. 2019-02, 1-3-2019, eff. 1-4-2019)
10-5C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory building or use customarily incidental to a permitted use.
Agriculture.
Animals and fowl kept for family food production.
Chinchilla raising.
Corral, stable or building for keeping of livestock, horses, mules, donkeys,
llamas or fowl, provided such building shall be located not less than sixty
feet (60') from a public street.
Golf course, except a miniature golf course.
Greenhouse and nursery limited to sale of material produced on premises and
with no retail shop operation.
Home occupation.
Horses for private use only; and provided, that no more than two (2) horses may
be kept for each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet within any lot.
Household pets.
Livestock, horses, mules, donkeys, or llamas or fowl kept as per section
10-8-6 of this title.
Parking lot accessory to use permitted in this zone.
Private stables; horses for private use only; and provided, that not more than
two (2) horses may be kept for each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet within
any lot.
Residential facility for elderly persons.
Residential facility for persons with a disability.
Single-family dwellings.
Small animals; no more than twelve (12) small animals shall be kept per twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet of lot area.
Temporary building or use incidental to construction work. Such building shall
be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. (Ord.
94-16, 10-12-1994; amd. Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009, eff. 9-3-2009; Ord. 2011-09, 8-
4-2011, eff. 8-5-2011)
10-5C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses shall be permitted only when authorized by a conditional use
permit as provided in chapter 10 of this title:
Church, synagogue, or similar permanent building used for regular religious
worship.
Educational institution.
Kennels and catteries.
Private park, playground or recreation area not open to the general public and
to which no admission is made, and not including privately owned commercial
amusement business.
Public building, public park, recreation grounds, and association buildings.
Public utility substation, utility lines, or water storage reservoir, or any
other utility facility to be erected on the surface of the ground or over the
ground developed by a public or private agency other than those to be located
in the right-of-way of an existing street or highway. (Ord. 94-16, 10-12-1994;
amd. Ord. 2008-11, 9-6-2008, eff. retroactive to 9-5-2008; Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-
2009, eff. 9-3-2009)
10-5C-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
No lot in the RE-40 Zone may be smaller than forty thousand (40,000) square
feet. No lot in the RE-30 Zone may be smaller than thirty thousand (30,000)
square feet. Area and width requirements of a building lot in the RE-30 and RE-
40 Zones shall be as follows:
                    RE-30              RE-40
A. Minimum lot area 30,000 square feet 40,000 square feet
                              RE-30                    RE-40
A. Minimum lot area           30,000 square feet       40,000 square feet
B. Minimum lot width          150 feet                 150 feet
C. Minimum yard setbacks:
  1. Front                   40 feet                  40 feet
  2. Side:
                              10 feet, with total      10 feet, with total
   a. Dwelling              width of 2 side yards    width of 2 side yards
                              not less than 24 feet    not less than 24 feet
                              10 feet, except 5 feet   10 feet, except 5 feet
   b. Accessory building    if located at least 6    if located at least 6
                              feet in rear of main     feet in rear of main
                              building                 building
  3. Side, facing street on  30 feet                  30 feet
   corner lot
  4. Rear:
   a. Main building         30 feet                  30 feet
                              5 feet, except 10 feet   5 feet, except 10 feet
   b. Accessory building    where accessory building where accessory building
                              rears on side yard of    rears on side yard of
                              adjacent corner lot      adjacent corner lot
D. Main building height:
  1. Minimum                 1 story                  1 story
  2. Maximum                 21/2 stories or 35 feet  21/2 stories or 35 feet
                              No dwelling shall be erected to a height less
                              than ten feet (10'), and no accessory building in
                              a residential zone shall be erected to a height
E. Accessory building height: greater than twenty-five feet (25').
                              See Examples (
                              Figures #1,
                              #2 and
                              #3)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1722.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1724.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1726.jpg]
(Ord. 2019- 02, 1-3-2 019, eff. 1-4-2 019; amd. Ord. 2023-18, 12-7-2023)
10-5C-5: SIGN REGULATIONS:
The type, height, size and location of signs shall be in accordance with the
regulations as set forth in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 94-16, 10-12-1994)
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL ZONES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Uses
10-6-2: Town Center
10-6-1: USES:
   A.   Uses In Commercial Zones: In the following list of possible uses in the
commercial zones, those designated in any zone as "P" will be permitted use.
Uses designated as "C" will be allowed only when authorized by a conditional
use permit obtained as provided in chapter 10 of this title. Uses designated
"N" will not be allowed in that zone. If a specific business is not listed,
these uses apply: C-1 Not Allowed (N) C-2 Not Allowed(N) C-3 Not Allowed (N).
Business Neighborhood C-11 General C-2 Transitional C-3
Business                         Neighborhood C-11 General C-2 Transitional C-3
Amusement enterprises (i.e.,
arcades, mini-golf course,       N                 C           C
batting cage)
Animal hospital, small animals
only and provided conducted      C                 C           C
within completely enclosed
building
Antique and import shop          C                 P           P
Archery shop and range, provided
conducted within completely      C                 C           C
enclosed building
Art and artists supply store     C                 P           P
Athletic and sporting goods
store, excluding sale or repair  C                 P           P
of motor vehicles, motor boats
or motors
Athletic and sporting goods
store, including sale or repair  N                 C           C
of motor vehicles, motor boats
or motors
Athletic club                    N                 P           P
Auction establishment            N                 P           P
Automobile body repair           N                 P           C
Automobile maintenance           N                 C           C
Automobile new or used sales and N                 P           P
service
Automobile rental                N                 C           P
Automobile repair                C                 P           P
Awning sales and service         C                 P           P
Bakery goods manufacturing       N                 N           P
Bakery manufacture limited to    C                 P           N
goods retailed on premises
Bank or financial institution    C                 P           C
Barbershop                       C                 P           P
Beauty culture school            N                 P           P
Beauty shop                      P                 P           P
Beer parlor, sale of draft beer  N                 C           C
Bicycle sales and service        C                 P           P
Billiard parlor                  N                 C           C
Blueprinting or copy center      C                 P           P
Boarding or lodging house        N                 N           N
Boat building                    N                 N           P
Boat sales and service           N                 C           P
Body art/tattoo                  C                 C           C
Bookbinding                      C                 P           P
Bookstore, retail                C                 P           P
Bottling and distribution plant  N                 N           P
Bowling alley                    N                 P           P
Building materials sales or yard N                 C           P
Cafe or cafeteria                C                 P           P
Camera store                     C                 P           P
Candy manufacturer               C                 P           P
Candy store, confectionery       C                 P           P
Car wash - automatic             C                 P           P
Car wash - manual                C                 P           P
Carbonated water sales           C                 P           P
Carpenter and cabinet shop       C                 P           P
Carpet and rug cleaning          C                 P           P
Carpet, rug, and linoleum        C                 P           P
service
Catering establishment           C                 P           P
Childcare - daycare              P                 P           P
Christmas tree sales             C                 P           P
Church                           C                 C           C
Church, temporary revival        N                 C           C
Circus, carnival or other        N                 C           C
transient amusement
Clinics, medical and dental      C                 P           P
Clothing and accessory store     C                 P           P
Construction of buildings to be  N                 N           P
sold and moved off of premises
Contractor shop, provided work
conducted within a completely    C                 P           P
enclosed building
Convenience store                C                 P           P
Costume rental                   C                 P           P
Dairy products                   C                 P           P
Dance hall - studio              C                 P           P
Delicatessen                     C                 P           P
Dental practice                  C                 P           P
Department store                 N                 C           C
Drapery and curtain store        C                 P           P
Drugstore                        C                 P           P
Dumpster rental                  N                 N           C
Educational institution          C                 C           C
Electrical and heating
appliances and fixtures sales    N                 P           P
and service
Electronic appliances and/or     N                 N           P
electronic instruments assembly
Electronic equipment sales and   C                 P           P
service
Employment agency                N                 P           P
Estate sales and one day         C                 P           P
auctions
Express and transfer service     N                 P           P
Fabric and textile store         C                 P           P
Farm implement sales             N                 C           P
Farmers' market                  C                 P           N
Five and ten cent notions store  C                 P           C
Florist shop                     C                 P           C
Fruit and vegetable store or     P                 C           N
stand
Fuel sales office                N                 N           C
Furniture sales, repair and      C                 P           P
upholstery
Garden supplies and plant        N                 P           C
material sales
Gift store                       C                 P           C
Glass sales and service          N                 P           C
Government buildings or uses,    C                 C           C
nonindustrial
Graphic designing                N                 P           C
Greenhouse and nursery           C                 P           P
Grocery                          C                 P           C
Gunsmith                         C                 P           P
Gymnasium                        C                 P           P
Hardware store                   N                 P           P
Health and fitness club          C                 P           P
Health food store                C                 P           P
Heating and air conditioning     N                 C           C
sales and service
Heliport                         N                 N           C
Hobby and crafts store           C                 P           C
Home decor shop                  C                 P           P
Hospital supplies                N                 C           C
Hotel                            N                 C           C
Household appliance sales and    N                 P           P
incidental service
Household cleaning and repair    N                 P           P
Household pet boarding           N                 P           P
Ice cream manufacture            N                 C           P
Ice cream parlor                 P                 P           P
Ice manufacture and storage      N                 C           P
Insulation sales                 N                 C           P
Insurance agency                 P                 P           P
Interior decorating and          N                 P           P
designing establishment
Janitor service and supply       N                 P           P
Jewelry store sales and service  P                 P           C
Knitting mills                   N                 P           P
Laboratory, dental or medical    C                 P           P
Laundry and/or dry cleaning and/ C                 P           P
or laundromat
Laundry and/or dry cleaning pick P                 P           P
up station
Lawn and garden equipment sales  C                 P           P
and service
Leather goods sales and service  P                 P           P
Legal office                     P                 P           P
Library                          P                 P           P
Linen supply store               N                 P           P
Liquor store                     N                 C           C
Locksmith                        P                 P           P
Lodge or social hall             N                 N           P
Lounge                           N                 N           C
Machine shop operations          N                 N           P
Manufacture of goods retailed on N                 C           C
premises
Meat, fish and seafood store     N                 P           P
Medical office                   C                 P           P
Mobile home sales lot and        N                 N           P
service
Monument works and sales         N                 N           P
Mortuary                         N                 P           P
Motel                            N                 C           C
Motorcycle and motor scooter     N                 P           P
sales and service
Museum                           C                 C           C
Music store                      C                 C           C
Nightclub or social club         N                 N           C
Novelty store                    N                 N           C
Office machines sales and        N                 P           P
service
Office supply                    C                 P           P
Optometrist, optician or oculist C                 P           P
Ornamental iron sales or repair  N                 C           P
Outcall services (sexually       P                 P           P
oriented)
Paint or wallpaper store         N                 P           P
Parking lot or garage for        N                 C           C
passenger automobiles
Pawnshop                         N                 C           P
Pest control and extermination   N                 C           P
Pet and pet supply store         N                 C           P
Pet grooming                     C                 P           P
Pharmacy                         C                 C           P
Photo studio                     C                 C           P
Photographic supplies            N                 C           P
Physician or surgeon             C                 P           P
Pie manufacture                  N                 C           P
Piercing/body                    C                 C           C
Plumbing shop                    N                 C           C
Portable/mobile toilet           N                 N           C
Post Office or supply            N                 C           P
Preschool and/or nursery school  P                 P           P
Private club                     N                 C           C
Professional office              C                 P           P
Propane retail sales as an
accessory use2:
 1. Be located outside of any
  required setback;
 2. Not exceed 16 feet in
  length if tank is horizontal;
  3. Not exceed the primary
 building height or 10 feet,
  whichever is lower, if tank is
  vertical;                      N                 C           P
 4. Not exceed a volume of
  1,100 gallons (or 4,664 lbs);
 5. Be limited to 1 tank per
  site;
  6. Meet the National Fire
  Protection Association (NFPA)
 standards per their title 58
  and meet the minimum distance
  requirements for cylinders
  locations.
Real estate agency               N                 C           P
Reception center or wedding      N                 C           P
chapel
Recreational vehicle sales and   N                 N           C
service
Recreational vehicle storage     N                 N           P
Rehabilitation center            N                 N           C
Rental agency for home and       N                 C           P
garden equipment
Residential dwellings in a Mixed
Use Overlay Zone per chapter 19  P                 P           N
of this title
Restaurant                       C                 C           P
Restaurant drive-in              C                 C           P
Rollerskating rink               N                 C           P
Roofing sales or shop            N                 N           P
Sandblasting                     N                 N           P
Seamstress or tailor             P                 P           P
Seed and feed store, retail      N                 C           P
Self-storage - enclosed          N                 C           C
Service station, automobile      C                 C           P
Sewing machine sales and service N                 C           P
Sexually oriented business       N                 N           P
Sheet metal shop and retinning,
provided all operations          N                 N           C
conducted within completely
enclosed building
Shoe store                       N                 P           C
Shooting gallery                 N                 N           C
Sign - graphic design            N                 C           C
Sign manufacture or sign         N                 N           C
painting
Soil and lawn service            N                 P           P
Souvenir shop                    C                 P           P
Spa and massage establishment    C                 P           C
Supercenter (groceries and       N                 C           P
nonfood related items)
Tanning salon                    N                 P           P
Tattoo/body art                  C                 C           C
Tavern                           N                 C           C
Taxicab and shuttle terminal     N                 N           C
Taxidermist                      N                 C           C
Telecommunication tower          C                 C           P
Theater, indoor                  N                 C           C
Theater, outdoor                 N                 N           P
Thrift store                     N                 C           P
Tire recapping or retreading     N                 N           P
sales and service
Tobacco shop                     N                 C           C
Tool design (precisions) repair  N                 N           C
and manufacture
Toy store, retail                N                 C           C
Trade or industrial school/      N                 C           C
teaching
Travel agency                    C                 C           P
Ultra light aircraft             N                 N           P
manufacturing
Used car lot                     N                 C           C
Utility equipment building       C                 P           P
Variety store                    N                 C           P
Ventilating equipment sales and  N                 N           C
service
Video arcade                     N                 C           P
Video shop                       C                 C           P
Warehouse storage                N                 N           P
Welding shop                     N                 N           P
Wholesale business               N                 N           C
Window washing establishment     N                 C           P
 
Notes:
   1.    See also section
10-6A-4 of this chapter.
   2.    See subsection B of this section for minimum distance requirements.
   B.   Minimum Distance Requirements For Cylinder Locations:
   DISTANCES FROM CYLINDERS IN STORAGE AND EXPOSURES
 
Quantity Of LP-Gas Horizontal Distance Horizontal Distance Horizontal Distance
Stored             To Notes 1 And 2    To Notes 3 And 4    To Note 5
720 lb (327 kg) or 0 ft (0 m)          0 ft (0 m)          5 ft (1.5 m)
less
721 to 2,500 lb    0 ft (0 m)          10 ft (3 m)         10 ft (3 m)
(327+ to 1134 kg)
2,501 to 6,000 lb  10 ft (3 m)         10 ft (3 m)         10 ft (3 m)
(1134+ to 2721 kg)
 
Notes:
   1.    Nearest important building or group of buildings.
   2.    Line of adjoining property that can be built upon.
   3.    Busy thoroughfares or sidewalks on other than private property.
   4.    Line of adjoining property occupied by schools, churches, hospitals,
athletic fields or other points of public gathering.
   5.    Dispensing station.
(Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-2004; amd. Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009, eff. 9-3-
2009; Ord. 2018-04, 3-1-2018, eff. 3-1-2018; Ord. 2018-12, 10-4-2018, eff. 10-
4-2018; Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; Ord. 2023-10, - -2023; Ord.
2024-02, 1-4-2024)
10-6-2: TOWN CENTER:
The Town Center, as indicated on the Future Land Use Map of the General Plan,
is established to provide a mix of residential uses and neighborhood (C-1)
commercial uses while accomplishing the purpose and intent to design an
integral, homogeneous component of the neighborhood, oriented to pedestrian
use. The Town Center is an ideal place for mixed use development per chapter 19
of this title and various lots sizes in a Residential Overlay Zone per chapter
20 of this title. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019)
ARTICLE A. NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL ZONE C-1
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Purpose And Intent
10-6A-2: Site Development Standards
10-6A-3: Sign Regulations
10-6A-4: Special Regulations
10-6A-5: Site Plan Review Required
10-6A-6: Landscaping Standards
10-6A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The neighborhood commercial zone is established to provide locations
for convenience shopping facilities which serve a neighborhood oriented market.
Such shopping facilities would supply necessities which usually require
frequent purchasing with a minimum of consumer travel.
   B.   Neighborhood commercial zones shall be located so that their
distribution pattern throughout the city reflects their neighborhood
orientation. Such zones shall not be so large or broad in scope of services as
to attract substantial trade from outside the neighborhood. These zones shall
not be located in close proximity to any other commercial zone.
   C.   Neighborhood commercial uses shall be encouraged to develop in compact
centers reflecting unified designs that are architecturally compatible in terms
of scale with the neighborhood in which they are located. They should be
designed as an integral, homogeneous component of the neighborhood, oriented to
pedestrian traffic, as well as vehicular traffic. Site selection development
and uses for neighborhood commercial zones shall take into account potential
impacts on surrounding residential uses and measures shall be taken to minimize
these impacts. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
10-6A-2: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A. Minimum lot area                    None
B. Minimum lot width                   None
C. Minimum yard setbacks:               
  1. Front                            20 feet for all buildings and walls or
                                       fences over 3 feet high
  2. Side                             None, except 10 feet adjacent to
                                       residential zone boundary
  3. Side facing street on corner lot 20 feet
  4. Rear                             None, except 10 feet where building
                                       rears on a residential zone
D. Building height:                     
  1. Minimum                          1 story
  2. Maximum                          21/2 stories or 35 feet
E. Maximum lot coverage                Not over 60 percent of lot area by
                                       buildings or accessory buildings
 
(Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-6A-3: SIGN REGULATIONS:
The height, size and location of permitted signs shall be in accordance with
the regulations set forth in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-6A-4: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Use Conditions: Hereinafter specified permitted and conditional uses
shall be permitted only when the following conditions are complied with:
      1.   All manufacturing shall be done within a completely enclosed
building and shall be clearly incidental to a use permitted in this chapter.
      2.   All uses shall be free from objection because of odor, dust, smoke
or noise.
   B.   Car Wash Restrictions: A car wash shall be permitted subject to the
following restrictions:
      1.   Such car wash shall be for automobiles and trucks of a maximum of
one ton capacity.
      2.   There shall not be more than four (4) washing bays for a manual
spray car wash.
      3.   Off street vehicle storage of not less than four (4) spaces in the
approach lane for each wash bay shall be provided. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
   C.   Mobile Food Vendors:
      1.   Mobile food vendors shall only operate with a business license to
operate as a mobile food vendor (food truck or trailer) obtained from Plain
City through the business license application process and providing a current
Health Department permit to operate a mobile food truck or trailer, or obtained
from Plain City after providing:
         a.   A current business license from another jurisdiction within the
State; and,
         b.   A current Health Department permit from a Health Department
within the State.
      2.   Mobile food vendors are:
         a.   Permitted to operate in commercial/industrial zones with written
permission from the property owner or authorized agent for each location in
which the mobile food vendor shall operate;
         b.   Only to operate on hard surface (pavement, asphalt); and,
         c.   Operate in residential zones on private property with written
permission from the property owner and notice provided to property owners
within two hundred feet (200').
         d.   Permitted to operate between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      3.   Mobile food vendors are:
         a.   Not permitted to operate within two hundred feet (200') of any
public park unless prior permission is given by the City.
         b.   Not permitted to operate within two hundred feet (200') of any
public or private school during operational school hours unless prior written
permission from the school or authorized agent is provided.
         c.   Not permitted to operate for more than twelve (12) hours within a
twenty four (24) hour period at any one location.
      4.   Mobile food vendors shall adhere to the following:
         a.   Signage: All signage must be permanently attached to the mobile
food vendor, except for one menu sign that shall not exceed three feet (3') by
four feet (4') and shall be placed on a hard surface no more than ten feet
(10') from the mobile food vendor. Signage must comply with clear view
requirements at road intersections found in section
10-12-2 of this title (zoning, sign regulations).
         b.   No Inhibiting Access: The mobile food vendor may not in any way
inhibit the access to and from or the safe use of the premises on which it is
located, and may not reduce the required parking of the premises. Any canopy
extensions must be integrated into the design of the vehicle and may not
project onto public property in any way.
         c.   Trash Removal: Mobile food vendors will provide trash containers
that shall be removed from the site when the vendor leaves the site.
         d.   No Drive-Throughs: Shall not operate as a drive-through.
         e.   Overnight Parking In Residential Zones: Shall only be allowed to
park overnight in residential zones where the mobile food vendor operator has a
home occupation business license for operation as a mobile food vendor.
         f.   If In Violation: Mobile food vendors will not be permitted to
operate and a business license will be revoked if in violation of title 4,
chapter 2, "Nuisances", of this Code. (Ord. 2018-01, 1-4-2018, eff. 1-4-2018)
10-6A-5: SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED:
Permitted uses specified in this article require site plan approval by the
Planning Commission before building permits are issued subject to section
10-8-16 of this title. Conditional uses are regulated by chapter 10 of this
title. (Ord. 2017-08, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-6A-6: LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
A landscape plan is required to be submitted as part of the site plan or
conditional use permit review in section
10-6A-5 of this article. Landscaping standards are specified in section
10-8-15, "Landscape Standards", of this title. (Ord. 2017-05, 2-16-2017, eff.
2-16-2017)
ARTICLE B. GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONE C-2
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Purpose And Intent
10-6B-2: Use Regulations
10-6B-3: Site Development Standards
10-6B-4: Special Parking Requirements
10-6B-5: Protection Of Adjoining Residential Properties
10-6B-6: General Regulations
10-6B-7: Submission Of Application
10-6B-8: Planning Commission Approval
10-6B-9: City Council Action
10-6B-10: Building Permit Issuance
10-6B-11: Time Limitation
10-6B-12: Application To Existing Commercial Zones
10-6B-13: Sign Regulations
10-6B-14: Site Plan Review Required
10-6B-15: Landscaping Standards
10-6B-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The general commercial zone is established to provide locations for a
full range of office, retail commercial, and service uses which are oriented to
serve the city as a whole, as well as a regional market in Plain City. A
variety of activities are encouraged, especially those which promote both
daytime and nighttime consumer activity.
   B.   The general commercial zone includes uses usually associated with
central business district and shopping facilities which are not ordinarily
compatible with single-family residential uses.
   C.   In order to stabilize, improve and protect the city's commercial areas,
standards are established to ensure a quality urban environment with
landscaping, light and air at street level, well defined urban spaces, and
compatibility of building materials, colors, and textures. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-
2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
10-6B-2: USE REGULATIONS:
Any permitted use or any conditional use allowed in the C-2 zone shall be
permitted in their respective C-2 zone, provided, where applicable, a
conditional use permit is obtained as provided in chapter 10 of this title.
Such uses shall be indicated on the final development plan. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-
2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
10-6B-3: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A. Minimum lot area          None
B. Minimum yard setbacks:     
  1. Front                  20 feet for main building, walls or fences over 3
                             feet high
  2. Side                   None, except 10 feet adjoining a residential zone
  3. Side, facing street on 20 feet
      corner lot
  4. Rear                   None, except 10 feet adjoining a residential zone
C. Building height:           
  1. Minimum                1 story
  2. Maximum                35 feet
D. Lot coverage              The aggregate area of all buildings shall not
                             exceed 40 percent of the entire lot
 
(Ord. 2015-06, 11-19-2015, eff. 11-19-2015)
10-6B-4: SPECIAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Off street parking facilities shall follow the provisions of chapter 9 of this
title. (Ord. 2015-05, 11-19-2015, eff. 11-19-2015)
10-6B-5: PROTECTION OF ADJOINING RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES:
Where a general commercial development adjoins any lot in any residential zone,
there shall be provided and maintained along such property line an opaque fence
of not less than six feet (6') in height; provided, however, that such fence
shall be three and one-half feet (31/2') in height along the property line
which bounds the front yard of adjoining residential lots. At least fifty
percent (50%) of such wall should be maintained with a minimum six foot (6')
wide planting strip and landscaping with trees and shrubs. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-
2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
10-6B-6: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Ownership: A C-2 zone may be established only upon land held in single
ownership or under unified control, or where the planning commission determines
that commercial development on separate adjoining properties should be
coordinated to form a physically unified commercial facility which will be
compatible with the surrounding land uses. At the time a C-2 zone is
established and before building permits are issued, deed restrictions on the
properties covered under the zone change shall be filed by the applicant or
owners of the subject property with the county recorder and shall provide that
development take place on such property or properties in accordance with the
final site development plan approved by the city council and on file with the
city recorder.
   B.   Nonconformities Prohibited: A C-2 zone shall not be established upon a
tract of land which would contain a nonconforming use or its integration into
planned development.
   C.   Relationship To Master Plan: The location of the C-2 zone shall have an
acceptable relationship to and further the purposes of the master plan of the
city as determined by the planning commission. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-
5-2004)
10-6B-7: SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
A rezoning petition for a general commercial zone shall be submitted to the
planning commission and shall be accompanied by a preliminary development plan
for the commercial center showing a unified and organized arrangement of
buildings and structures and their proposed uses, off street parking, internal
and external traffic circulation and service facilities, and schematic
architectural drawings, landscaping plans and sketches demonstrating the design
and character of the proposed development. The developer shall submit all
evidence deemed necessary by the city council and/or planning commission of his
ability to undertake the proposed project. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-
2004)
10-6B-8: PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL:
The planning commission shall recommend approval or denial of the zoning
petition and preliminary development plan to the city council. The
recommendation of the planning commission may contain conditions, limitations
or amendments to the preliminary development plan to ensure that the general
commercial development is integrated into its surroundings and serves the
public interest to the greatest extent possible. The planning commission shall
also recommend a reasonable amount to be provided by the developer by cash
deposit or bond, to ensure the completion of the landscaping for the entire
plan or phase thereof. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
10-6B-9: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
The city council, after holding a public hearing thereon, may approve or
disapprove a petition for a general commercial zone. In approving a zoning
petition, the city council shall concurrently approve a preliminary development
plan, the amount required to ensure completion of the landscaping, together
with whatever amendments, conditions or requirements as it may deem necessary
to secure the purpose of this article. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
10-6B-10: BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE:
After the rezoning of the site of a C-2 zone, a final development plan for the
entire district or for the initial phase, if a stage plan development plan has
been approved, shall be submitted to and approved by the planning commission as
complying with the regulations and requirements attached thereto, prior to the
issuance of any building or land use permits. The final development plan shall
show in detail the proposed areas and locations of buildings, off street
parking, internal and external traffic circulations, improvements, landscaping,
signs and service facilities. No changes shall be made in the final development
plan during the course of construction pursuant thereto without first obtaining
prior approval of the planning commission. Copies of the approved final
development plan shall be kept on file in the office of the planning
commission, building inspector and city recorder, and only changes which may be
subsequently approved shall be added thereto. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-
5-2004)
10-6B-11: TIME LIMITATION:
   A.   Time; Extension: Building permits shall be secured and construction
begun in accordance with the approved final development plan within eighteen
(18) months from the effective date of the ordinance establishing such zone or
other period of time as determined by the City Council. Application may be made
for not more than six (6) months' extension of the time limit for commencement
of construction. Use and building permits shall be issued only for those uses
and buildings indicated on the approved final development plan.
   B.   Loss Of Zoning Status: In the event that construction is not started
within the specified time limit, the Planning Commission shall review the
classification of the zone and the progress which has taken place and, if
deemed necessary, revoke the plan approval and initiate proceedings to rezone
said property to its prior classification or to a zone consistent with the
Comprehensive Master Plan.
   C.   Completion Time: All construction authorized in the approved final
development plan shall be completed within three (3) years of the date
construction has commenced. A plan for stage development which will require
more time than the limits contained herein may be approved by the City Council,
after recommendation by the Planning Commission.
   D.   Failure To Complete: In the event that construction is not completed
within the time limits specified, the Planning Commission shall review the
development which has taken place and if necessary initiate proceedings to
reclassify the property or part thereof in a manner consistent with the
Comprehensive Master Plan. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-6B-12: APPLICATION TO EXISTING COMMERCIAL ZONES:
In the case of existing commercial zones, the Planning Commission and City
Council may proceed to rezone such zones to an equivalent General Commercial
Zone without the requirements of a preliminary development plan and other
necessary information; but, after being so zoned to a General Commercial Zone,
a preliminary and final development plan of each development shall be submitted
to and approved by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with
the provisions of this article prior to the issuance of building permits;
provided, however, that improvements already in existence at the time of
rezoning shall not be affected. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
10-6B-13: SIGN REGULATIONS:
The height, type, size and location of signs shall be in accordance with the
regulations as set forth in chapter 12 of this title, or as determined
necessary by the Planning Commission. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-6B-14: SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED:
Permitted uses specified in this article require site plan approval by the
Planning Commission before building permits are issued subject to section
10-8-16 of this title. Conditional uses are regulated by chapter 10 of this
title. (Ord. 2017-08, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-6B-15: LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
A landscape plan is required to be submitted as part of the site plan or
conditional use permit review in section
10-6B-14 of this article. Landscaping standards are specified in section
10-8-15, "Landscape Standards", of this title. (Ord. 2017-05, 2-16-2017, eff.
2-16-2017)
ARTICLE C. TRANSITIONAL COMMERCIAL AND
MANUFACTURING ZONE C-3
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Purpose And Intent
10-6C-2: Permitted Uses
10-6C-3: Site Development Standards
10-6C-4: Sign Regulations
10-6C-5: Site Plan Review Required
10-6C-6: Landscaping Standards
10-6C-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The Transitional Commercial and Manufacturing Zone is established to
provide suitable locations for retail, wholesale, light manufacturing, service
and outdoor recreation uses. These areas should serve as transition zones
between General Commercial and Manufacturing Zones and should be located on
arterial streets.
   B.   The C-3 Zone serves as the location of the heaviest type of commercial
activities allowed in the City. For this reason, these zones should be located
so as not to occur next to residential areas and so that the appearance from
the highway frontage does not present a poor image of the City. (Ord. 2004-12,
8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
10-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
For possible uses, see section
10-6-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
10-6C-3: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A. Minimum lot area       20,000 square feet, except for single-family
                          dwellings which require 5 acres
B. Minimum lot width      100 feet
C. Minimum yard setbacks:  
  1. Front               30 feet on streets of less than 80 feet in width
  2. Side                None, except 20 feet where adjacent to a residential
                          boundary and for single-family dwellings
                          None, except 20 feet where building rears on a
  3. Rear                residential zone and 30 feet for single-family
                          dwellings
D. Building height:        
  1. Minimum             1 story
  2. Maximum             None
E. Lot coverage           Not over 80 percent of lot area by buildings
 
(Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
10-6C-4: SIGN REGULATIONS:
The type, height, size and location of signs shall be in accordance with the
regulations as set forth in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004,
eff. 8-5-2004)
10-6C-5: SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED:
Permitted uses specified in this article require site plan approval by the
Planning Commission before building permits are issued subject to section
10-8-16 of this title. Conditional uses are regulated by chapter 10 of this
title. (Ord. 2017-08, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-6C-6: LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
A landscape plan is required to be submitted as part of the site plan or
conditional use permit review in section
10-6C-5 of this article. Landscaping standards are specified in section
10-8-15, "Landscape Standards", of this title. (Ord. 2017-05, 2-16-2017, eff.
2-16-2017)
CHAPTER 7
SENIOR HOUSING OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose And Intent
10-7-2: Use Regulations
10-7-3: Area Regulations
10-7-4: General Regulations
10-7-5: Submission Of Application
10-7-6: Planning Commission Consideration
10-7-7: Planning Commission Action
10-7-8: City Council Action
10-7-9: Final Site Plan And/Or Final Plat Approval
10-7-10: Building Permit Issuance
10-7-11: Time Limit
10-7-12: Easements Over Common Areas
10-7-13: Homeowners' Association Required
10-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   The Senior Housing Overlay (SHO) Zone is established for senior
housing residential development within a limited area of the City. It is
expressly provided that the SHO Zone is not intended to be utilized for all
residential development within the City. The SHO Zone shall only be permitted
for property approved by the Planning Commission and City Council. (Ord. 2012-
03, 8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
      2.   It is established to ensure that adequate housing is available to
senior citizens. (Ord. 2016-09, 10-6-2016, eff. 10-6-2016; amd. Ord. 2017-09,
7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
      3.   It is established to facilitate the development of senior housing
projects which are superior in functional design, quality of construction,
appearance, and operational standards.
      4.   It is established to ensure that the requirements of the Americans
With Disabilities Act (ADA) and universal design principles are incorporated
within senior housing developments.
      5.   It is established to ensure that the requirements of all disciplines
related to the International Code Council are followed.
   B.   Intent: This zone is designed to provide for residential uses that are
appropriate for the development of seniors, recognizing their unique lifestyles
and needs, by allowing higher densities, a mix of uses, and requiring in
return, higher design and construction standards, as well as the provision of
specific site and building amenities. It is the intent of this zone to carry
out the policies and objectives of all elements of the General Plan and to meet
the standards necessary to satisfy the requirements for public health, safety,
and general welfare. (Ord. 2012-03, 8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-
09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-7-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Conditional Use/Preliminary Development Plan Approval: The residential
uses, housing types and the location of the buildings proposed in an SHO Zone
may differ from the residential uses, housing types and regulations governing
such uses in effect in the zone in which the development is proposed, provided
the provisions of this chapter are complied with.
   B.   Nonresidential Uses: Nonresidential uses may be included in the
development to provide a necessary service to the residents of the development
or to expand uses in certain areas of the City as determined by the Planning
Commission. (Ord. 2012-03, 8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-
2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-7-3: AREA REGULATIONS:
At least one household member must be fifty (50) years or older. (Ord. 2012-03,
8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-7-4: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Open Space: A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) open space shall be
required of all SHO Zones, except as set forth below. For the purposes of this
chapter, "open space" shall mean land and amenities set aside for common areas
which are available for recreational use by residents of the SHO Zone or the
public in general where land is dedicated to the City or the City holds a
public access easement to the land. Open space acreage proposed to meet the
fifteen percent (15%) requirement and encumbered by easements, wetlands, or
utilities may only be utilized at a rate of up to fifty percent (50%). The
percent applied to such properties shall be negotiated with the Planning
Commission and the Planning Commission shall base their recommendation on the
usability of that space, the amenities that it will provide, and the impact of
the space on the project and the City. Open space shall not include private
yard space, roads, parking lots, or dwelling units. The fifteen percent (15%)
open space requirement may be reduced when the maximum density otherwise
allowable is not requested, and an exceptional amenity or amenities of Citywide
benefit are included in, or in conjunction with, the project.
   B.   Density: The SHO Zone density shall be an average of 6.0 units per
acre.
   C.   Yard And Height Regulations:
      1.   The yard and height requirements of the adjacent zone around the
periphery of the project shall be considered by the Planning Commission and may
be modified (greater or smaller), as the Planning Commission deems necessary,
in order to provide the privacy to the existing land uses, as well as the
proposed land uses in the SHO Zone.
      2.   Front of building shall not encroach upon the utility easement and
shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') from back of curb.
      3.   Minimum spacing between buildings shall be ten feet (10').
   D.   Site Development Standards; Signs: Site development standards and sign
regulations shall be determined by approval of the site development plan.
   E.   Land Dedication, Streets, Lighting, And Utilities: The City Council,
upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, may consider the dedication of
streets, open space, and/or parks within the SHO Zone. Any private roads shall
meet City standards for pavement structure. A street lighting plan is required.
All utilities to be installed as part of the SHO Zone, shall be placed
underground.
   F.   Guarantee; Deposit In Escrow: The developer will deposit in escrow with
an escrow holder approved by the City Council an amount of money equal to the
cost of improvements required plus ten percent (10%) as estimated by the
developer and approved by the City Engineer under an escrow agreement
conditioned for the installation of said improvements within two (2) years from
the date the final plat is recorded. The escrow agreement aforesaid shall be
approved by the City Council and City Attorney and shall be filed with the City
Recorder. The ten percent (10%) improvement guarantee amount will be held for
one year beyond the date of conditional final acceptance of improvements.
   G.   Revisions: As part of the City Council review of the final plat and/or
development agreement, the City Council may modify the recommendations of the
Planning Commission. (Ord. 2012-03, 8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-
09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
   H.   Development Agreement: A development agreement shall be required for
all SHO Zones to assure that all conditions of approval, resolution of
negotiations, etc., are completed in the final development. The development
agreement is a negotiated document. The Planning Commission shall make its
recommendation on development agreement standards to the City Council. The City
Council shall have the final negotiation and power to approve the final
development agreement. The development agreement shall be signed and recorded
concurrently with the final plan by the City Council. This agreement runs with
the land and contains all the conditions decided upon during the project
approval process. Once the Planning Commission has deliberated on the
conditional use and the development agreement, the draft development agreement
shall be sent to the City Council for review and consideration. The City
Council review and/or modification shall be accomplished prior to the Planning
Commission review of a preliminary plan or other submittals for the project.
(Ord. 2016-09, 10-6-2016, eff. 10-6-2016; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-
20-2017)
   I.   Checking Fees: Checking fees for SHO Zones shall be based on the same
standards contained in the subdivision title and fees established for lots
shall be applicable to housing units.
   J.   Architectural Standards: The following minimum architectural standards
shall be required of all dwellings within a planned residential unit
development:
      1.   Single-family dwellings shall have at least a two car garage (with
minimum interior dimensions of 20 feet by 20 feet) per dwelling unit. Common
walls between dwellings may be allowed with prior approval of the Planning
Commission with a maximum of three (3) units.
      2.   Where a garage(s) is placed on the front building facade, the width
of the garage door(s) shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total width
of the front building facade.
      3.   Exterior finish materials of single-family dwellings shall be at
least thirty percent (30%) masonry. At least fifty percent (50%) masonry shall
be required for dwellings with common walls. For the purposes of this section,
masonry shall include brick or stone or a material approved by the Planning
Commission majority. For all of the dwellings at least twenty five percent
(25%) of the front building facade shall be masonry.
      4.   The minimum roof pitch shall be at least four to twelve (4:12).
      5.   The minimum square footage of each dwelling area shall be at least
one thousand (1,000) square feet above grade and exclusive of garages.
      6.   All dwellings shall have at least two (2) roof planes on the front
building facade. Examples of this requirement include a hip style roof and a
gable end on the front elevation with a cross gable.
      7.   All dwellings shall have at least one relief feature on the front
building facade. Examples of relief items include: bay or box windows,
cantilevered living areas, covered front porches and foundation projections or
recesses.
      8.   In order to ensure exterior design variation in buildings with
dwellings, no more than two (2) dwellings which have the same or very similar
exterior design, as determined by the Planning Commission, shall be allowed
adjacent to each other.
   K.   Universal Design: Universal design (also known as "aging in place") is
a method of design that seeks to create development that can be used by
everyone, regardless of age or physical condition. All projects shall
implement, at minimum, the following universal design principles:
      1.   No step entries.
      2.   One-story living such that an eating area, bathroom, and sleeping
area are available on the same floor.
      3.   Front doors with a minimum width of thirty six inches (36") to
accommodate the use of wheelchairs and thirty two inch (32") free swing doors
(34 inch door) on all interior doors.
      4.   Hallway minimum width of forty two inches (42") to accommodate the
use of wheelchairs.
      5.   Room thresholds that are flush.
      6.   Adequate lighting throughout the dwelling unit.
      7.   Provide lever door handles and rocker light switches.
      8.   Provide additional closet rod brackets to allow potential access
from a wheelchair.
      9.   Wheelchair accessible bathrooms. Provide adequate space for
maneuverability and access to facilities to those using wheelchairs. (Ord.
2012-03, 8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-
2017)
10-7-5: SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Required: An application for an SHO Zone shall be submitted as a
conditional use to the Planning Commission. An overall preliminary development
plan including subsections A1 through A10 of this section shall be submitted
with the conditional use application for the SHO Zone.
      1.   Development density, coverage, and open space characteristics.
      2.   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation including trail systems,
parking, and public uses.
      3.   A description of architectural elevations and floor plans
demonstrating the general design, character, and exterior building materials of
the proposed structures.
      4.   Conceptual landscape plan, fencing, and screening.
      5.   Conceptual grading and drainage.
      6.   Streets and lots.
      7.   Identification signs or entrance features.
      8.   Street lighting.
      9.   A written letter of commitment to the particular design concepts of
the project. (Ord. 2012-03, 8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-
2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
      10.   A draft financial plan for the permanent maintenance of common area
facilities. (Ord. 2016-09, 10-6-2016, eff. 10-6-2016; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-
2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
   B.   Other Necessary Information: Such other information shall be included
as may be necessary to determine that the contemplated arrangement of uses
makes it desirable to apply regulations and requirements differing from those
ordinarily applicable under this title.
   C.   Project Details And Proposal Negotiations: As part of the General Plan/
rezone, or the rezone, or the conditional use, or subdivision process, project
details and proposals such as lot sizes, densities, setbacks and amenities may
be negotiated. (Ord. 2012-03, 8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-
20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-7-6: PLANNING COMMISSION CONSIDERATION:
In considering the proposed Senior Housing Overlay development, the Planning
Commission shall consider:
   A.   Design: The design, exterior materials, housing type and quality of
buildings and their relationship to the site and their relationship to
development beyond the boundaries of the development.
   B.   Streets, Traffic, Parking: Which streets shall be public and which
shall be private, the entrances and exits to the development and the provisions
for internal and external traffic circulation and off street parking.
   C.   Landscaping, Screening: The landscaping and screening as related to the
several uses within the development as a means of its integration into its
surroundings.
   D.   Signs: The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the
intensity and direction of area of floodlighting.
   E.   Density: The residential density of the proposed development and its
distribution as compared with the residential density of the surrounding lands,
either existing or as indicated on the zoning map or Master Plan as being a
desirable future residential density.
   F.   Financial Ability: The demonstrated ability of the proponents of the
Senior Housing Overlay development to financially carry out the proposed
project under total or phase development proposals within the time limit
established.
   G.   Open Space And Amenities: The value to the community of the open space
to be preserved and the amount and quality of the open space and amenities.
   H.   Phases: In the event the Senior Housing Overlay is done in phases, the
undeveloped portion will be addressed in the development agreement. It is up to
the developer to present the options (materials) and up to the commission to
decide. (Ord. 2012-03, 8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017,
eff. 7-20-2017)
10-7-7: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Recommendations: The Planning Commission, subject to the requirements
of this chapter and this Code, may recommend to approve, modify with conditions
or deny, the draft development agreement, site plan, and/or the preliminary
development plan.
   B.   For A Conditional Use: The Planning Commission, subject to the
requirements of this chapter, may approve, modify, deny, or approve with
conditions, the conditional use including the preliminary development plan for
the proposed Senior Housing Overlay development. After a conditional use for
the Senior Housing Overlay development is approved, a preliminary plat may be
submitted using the standards and procedures found in the subdivision ordinance
where subdivision approval is required. The Planning Commission may hold a
public hearing for the conditional use permit. (Ord. 2012-03, 8-16-2012, eff.
8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-7-8: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
In addition to the standard procedures, approval processes, and powers of the
City Council, the City Council may hold a public hearing on the development
agreement in conjunction with the General Plan and/or zone change or separately
after the Planning Commission review of the conditional use where a General
Plan and/or zone change is not required. The City Council may approve, approve
with conditions, or disapprove the final development agreement. (Ord. 2012-03,
8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-7-9: FINAL SITE PLAN AND/OR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
Permitted uses specified in section
10-7-2 of this chapter require site plan approval by the Planning Commission
before building permits are issued subject to section
10-8-16 of this title. Conditional uses are regulated by chapter 10 of this
title.
All plans shall follow standard subdivision approval process with the Planning
Commission. Approved final site plan or final plat will be forwarded to the
building official for issuance of building permit. (Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017,
eff. 7-20-2017)
10-7-10: BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE:
The building official shall not issue any permit for the proposed building or
use within the project unless such building or use is in accordance with the
approved development plan and any conditions imposed. Approved development
plans shall be filed with the Planning Commission, City Engineer, building
official and City Recorder. (Ord. 2012-03, 8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord.
2017-09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-7-11: TIME LIMIT:
Unless there is substantial action leading toward completion of a Senior
Housing Overlay development or an approved phase thereof within a period of six
(6) months from the date of approval, as determined by the City Council, to get
the plat recorded or such approval shall expire, unless after reconsideration
of the progress of the project, an extension is approved. (Ord. 2012-03, 8-16-
2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
10-7-12: EASEMENTS OVER COMMON AREAS:
In the Senior Housing Overlay Zone, there shall be reserved proper easements
over the common areas to accommodate public services, including, but not
limited to, the right of police and fire personnel to enter upon any part of
the common areas, and to allow the City to repair or replace facilities or
improvements thereon if any association fails so to do. The declaration for any
such development shall include a provision covenanting with the City and all
unit owners to maintain the common areas and facilities for the use of
declarant and all unit owners prior to being turned over to an association.
(Ord. 2012-03, 8-16-2012, eff. 8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-
20-2017)
10-7-13: HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION REQUIRED:
In the Senior Housing Overlay development with common areas and facilities such
as common open space or private streets, a homeowners' association shall be
created concurrent with recording of the final plat, to assure maintenance of
the common areas and facilities in perpetuity. (Ord. 2012-03, 8-16-2012, eff.
8-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-09, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-2017)
CHAPTER 8
REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ZONES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Applicability
10-8-2: Use Regulations
10-8-3: Main Building Regulations
10-8-4: Yard Regulations
10-8-5: Height Regulations; Exceptions
10-8-6: Livestock And Fowl
10-8-7: Building Regulations
10-8-8: Fence Height Regulations
10-8-9: Lighting
10-8-10: Private Park, Playground Or Recreational Area
10-8-11: Public Utility Substations
10-8-12: Swimming Pool, Private; Tennis Court, Private; Basketball Standard And
Court, Private
10-8-13: Mobile Homes And Recreational Vehicles
10-8-14: Standards For Single-Family Dwellings
10-8-15: Landscape Standards General Requirements
10-8-16: Residential Landscape Standards
10-8-17: Commercial Landscape Standards
10-8-18: Site Plan Approval Required
10-8-1: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the zone regulations contained elsewhere in this title. (Ord.,
11-14-1974)
10-8-2: USE REGULATIONS:
The requirements of this title and the minimum site development standards
herein shall not be construed to prevent a use which was permitted in a
respective zone of any parcel of land in the event such land was held in
separate ownership prior to May 13, 1965. Each such parcel to be developed must
have not less than sixteen feet (16') of frontage on a street, or as approved
by the hearing officer, and the density of development may not exceed that
permitted by area requirements in the respective zone. (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd.
Ord. 2020-09, 5-21-2020)
10-8-3: MAIN BUILDING REGULATIONS:
Every main building shall be located and maintained on a "lot", as defined in
section
10-2-1 of this title, and every lot shall have required frontage on a "street",
as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title, except as follows: (Ord. 2003-10, 11-20-2003, eff. 11-20-
2003)
   A.   Where a parcel of land was in separate ownership prior to as described
in section
10-8-2 of this chapter; and (Ord., 11-14-1974)
   B.   Where under special circumstances of design of a parcel of land, the
Planning Commission approves a "flag lot", as defined and provided for in the
subdivision ordinance of the City, which may or may not have the required
frontage as provided for in this title. Under no circumstances may the frontage
be less than twenty feet (20'). (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd. 2003 Code)
10-8-4: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   No required yard or other open space around an existing building or
which is hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying
with the provisions of this title, shall be considered as providing a yard or
open space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open
space on an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a
lot whereon a building is to be erected or established.
   B.   On any lot under a separate ownership from adjacent lots and of record
at the time of the initial enactment of the ordinance codified herein and such
lot having a smaller width than required for the zone in which it is located,
the following regulations shall apply:
      1.   For interior lots, each side yard may be equal to but not less than
the same percentage of the required side yard width as the lot is of the
required lot width; provided, that in no case shall the smaller of the two (2)
side yards be less than five feet (5') or the larger less than eight feet (8').
      2.   On corner lots, each side yard may be equal to but not less than the
same percentage of the required side yard width as the lot is of the required
lot width; provided, that in no case shall the side yard on the street side be
less than fifteen feet (15') and the other side yard shall be not less than
five feet (5') in all residential zones.
   C.   On any interior lot where a private attached garage containing a
sufficient number of parking spaces to meet the requirements of this title has
a side yard equal to the minimum side yard required for a dwelling in the same
zone, the width of the other side yard for the dwelling may be reduced to equal
that of the minimum required side yard.
   D.   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky unobstructed
except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and except for the ordinary
projections of skylights, sills, belt courses, cornices and other ornamental
features.
   E.   Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies opening upon fire towers may project into a yard not more than five
feet (5'), and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues are permitted.
   F.   No accessory building nor group of accessory buildings in any
residential zone shall cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear
yard.
   G.   No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or
other requirements of this title for a lot or building may be conveyed away
from such lot or building, except as permitted by the hearing officer, and any
attempted conveyance or lease in violation hereof shall be void.
   H.   No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located may be cut off from a larger
parcel of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building or
development as a lot, except by permit of the hearing officer. (Ord., 11-14-
1974; amd. Ord. 2020-09, 5-21-2020)
10-8-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways,
tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain a
building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles,
chimneys, smokestacks and water tanks, wireless or television masts, theater
lofts, silos or similar structures may be erected above the height limits
prescribed in the zone height regulations, but no space above the height limit
shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor space.
   B.   No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than ten feet (10'), and
no accessory building in a residential zone shall be erected to a height
greater than twenty five feet (25'). (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-8-6: LIVESTOCK AND FOWL:
   A.   Livestock:
      1.   Restrictions:
         a.   No livestock, horses, mules, donkeys, or llamas shall be kept or
maintained closer than forty feet (40') from any dwelling, and not closer than
seventy five feet (75') from any dwelling on an adjacent lot. Any barn, stable,
coop, pen or permanent structure for the housing or keeping of livestock,
horses, mules, donkeys, or llamas shall be kept, constructed or maintained not
closer to a public street than sixty feet (60').
   B.   Fowl:
      1.   Conditions For Permitting Fowl:
         a.   Eleven thousand (11,000) to thirteen thousand nine hundred ninety
nine (13,999) square foot lots:
            (1)   Ten (10) chickens with one rooster or twenty (20) pigeons
shall be allowed. Pheasants or game birds not allowed.
            (2)   Accessory structures such as barns, pens, corrals, coops and
runs for the keeping of fowl shall be located at least thirty five feet (35')
from a dwelling on an adjacent lot, fifteen feet (15') from any dwelling on the
same lot, and at least sixty feet (60') from any public street.
         b.   Fourteen thousand (14,000) to nineteen thousand nine hundred
ninety nine (19,999) square foot lots:
            (1)   Maximum of fifteen (15) fowl with a combination that shall
not include more than fifteen (15) chickens including one rooster with a
maximum of two (2) roosters per eight (8) to ten (10) hens or similar fowl over
six (6) months of age with a limit of thirty (30) fowl under six (6) months of
age, three (3) geese, three (3) ducks, three (3) turkeys, two (2) peacocks or
fifteen (15) pigeons. Pheasants or game birds not allowed.
            (2)   Accessory structures such as barns, pens, corrals, coops and
runs for the keeping of fowl shall be located at least fifty feet (50') from a
dwelling on an adjacent lot, twenty five feet (25') from any dwelling on the
same lot, and at least sixty feet (60') from any public street.
         c.   Twenty thousand (20,000) to thirty nine thousand nine hundred
ninety nine (39,999) square foot lots:
            (1)   Maximum of twenty five (25) fowl with a combination that
shall not include more than twenty five (25) chickens including one rooster
with a maximum of two (2) roosters per eight (8) to ten (10) hens or similar
fowl over six (6) months of age with a limit of thirty (30) fowl under six (6)
months of age, three (3) geese, three (3) ducks, three (3) turkeys, two (2)
peacocks, twenty (20) pigeons or ten (10) pheasants or similar game birds.
            (2)   Accessory structures such as barns, pens, corrals, coops and
runs for the keeping of fowl shall be located at least seventy five feet (75')
from a dwelling on an adjacent lot, forty feet (40') from any dwelling on the
same lot, and at least sixty feet (60') from any public street.
         d.   All residential zones over forty thousand (40,000) square foot
lots:
            (1)   Maximum of forty (40) fowl with a combination that shall not
include more than forty (40) chickens including a maximum of two (2) roosters
per eight (8) to ten (10) hens or similar fowl over six (6) months of age with
a limit of sixty (60) fowl under six (6) months of age, six (6) geese, eight
(8) ducks, six (6) turkeys, two (2) peacocks, forty (40) pigeons, or forty (40)
pheasants or similar game birds.
            (2)   Accessory structures such as barns, pens, corrals, coops and
runs for the keeping of fowl shall be located at least seventy five feet (75')
from a dwelling on an adjacent lot, forty feet (40') from any dwelling on the
same lot, and at least sixty feet (60') from any public street.
         e.   Above five (5) acres:
            (1)   No specific regulations on number of fowl.
            (2)   Accessory structures such as barns, pens, corrals, coops and
runs for the keeping of fowl shall be located at least seventy five feet (75')
from a dwelling on an adjacent lot, forty feet (40') from any dwelling on the
same lot, and at least sixty feet (60') from any public street.
      2.   Regulations: Possession of any fowl, game bird, migratory bird, or
similar bird/fowl shall comply with all state and federal regulations.
Potential owner shall obtain any permits/registrations required by such
regulations.
      3.   Control And Fencing: It is unlawful for the owner of any domestic
fowl, such as turkeys, ducks, geese, chickens, peacocks, or any other variety
of fowl, to permit such fowl to trespass or go upon the premises of another or
run at large on any public property or roadway.
      4.   Nuisances: All fowl must be in accordance with title 4, chapter 2,
"Nuisances", of this code.
   C.   Grandfather Clause: Notwithstanding the foregoing, or any language in
this code to the contrary, the limitations, requirements and sanctions imposed
by this section do not apply to owners of livestock, horses, mules, donkeys, or
llamas or fowl where such uses were in existence prior to any subsequent
residential or commercial development adjacent to his/her property where such
development has now created, or will create, a situation where livestock,
horses, llamas, mules, donkeys or fowl will be kept or maintained closer than
forty feet (40') from any dwelling, or closer than seventy five feet (75') from
any dwelling on an adjacent lot. Such continuing, preexisting uses shall be
deemed under this code to be in compliance with the requirements of this code
if the property owner was in compliance prior to the development. (Ord. 2011-
09, 8-4-2011, eff. 8-5-2011)
10-8-7: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
Domestic water supply and sewage disposal shall comply with the Weber County
health department requirements in all applications for a building permit where
either an approved supply of piped water under pressure, or a sewer, is not
available. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-8-8: FENCE HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Corner Yard Obstructions; Clear View Area:
      1.   In all districts requiring a front yard, no view obstructing object
in excess of thirty two inches (32") in height shall be placed on any corner
lot within a triangular area formed by the street property lines and a line
connecting them at points forty feet (40') from the intersection of the street
property lines.
      2.   Permitted in this area would be: trees pruned clear of branches
between the ground to a height of six feet (6'); shrubs, bushes trimmed to no
taller than two feet (2') above street level; gasoline pumps; permitted signs
with only minimum necessary supports visible to a height of not less than ten
feet (10'); nonview obstructing fences not exceeding a height of six feet (6').
   B.   Permitted Height; When Building Permit Required: Fences may be allowed
to permitted heights within buildable areas. Any fence over six feet (6')
requires a building permit.
   C.   Front Yards: In required front yards and except as noted in subsection
A of this section, view obscuring fences shall not exceed three feet (3') in
height. Nonview obscuring fences in front yards shall not be more than six feet
(6') in height.
Note: "View obscuring" means preventing the full view of property on one side
of the fence by a viewer standing on the opposite side of the fence.
   D.   Rear, Interior Side Yard: Fences shall not exceed eight feet (8') in
height in a required rear yard or interior side yard; except that on a corner
lot, the fence shall not be more than six feet (6') high in the rear yard
adjacent to a public street and in the rear yard area abutting a required front
yard area of an adjoining lot. Also, that fence abutting the street and the
adjoining lot's front yard area shall not be view obscuring if the adjoining
lot has a driveway closer than six feet (6') to the rear yard of the subject
lot.
   E.   Side Yard Adjacent To Public Street On Corner Lot: A fence not more
than six feet (6') high may be allowed in a side yard adjacent to a public
street on a corner lot, provided it does not extend into the required front
yard area, does not extend into the clear view area of a corner lot (subsection
A of this section) and is not a hazard as determined by the building inspector.
(Ord. 2002-08, 5-2-2002, eff. 5-2-2002)
   F.   Measuring Height Of Fence: Where a fence is erected upon a retaining
wall or where for other reasons there is a difference in the elevation of the
surface of the land on either side of a fence, height of the fence shall be
measured from a point halfway between the top of the retaining wall and the
land on either side of the fence, but nothing herein contained shall be
construed to restrict a fence to less than three and one-half feet (31/2') in
height measured from the surface of the land on the side having the highest
elevation.
   G.   Public Property: No fence may be placed on public property except by or
with the approval of a public agency.
   H.   Commercial Zones: In commercial zones, no fence shall exceed seven feet
(7') in height. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
   I.   Exceptions: Exceptions include state law, public utilities, schools,
other certain fences such as tennis courts, backstops, patio enclosures in the
front, side or rear yards, approved by the building inspector, where, in his
opinion, the exception does not create a hazard or violation of other
ordinances. (Ord. 2002-08, 5-2-2002, eff. 5-2-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
   J.   Nonconforming Conditions: Any conditions which would constitute a
nonconforming condition, upon passage of the ordinance codified herein, shall
be allowed to continue in that nonconforming condition until such time, if
ever, it comes to the attention of the city council. A that time, the city
council shall review such condition on an individual basis and may: 1)
authorize continuation of the condition "as is"; 2) allow continuation of the
condition with such changes as the city council shall determine; or 3) require
that the condition be abated and brought into conformance with the terms of
this section. (Ord. 2002-08, 5-2-2002, eff. 5-2-2002)
10-8-9: LIGHTING:
   A.   Exterior Lighting: No spotlight or floodlight shall be installed in any
way which will permit the direct rays of such light to penetrate into any
residential zone or onto any property used for residential purpose.
   B.   Lights Not To Constitute Traffic Hazard: No light, sign or other
advertising structure as regulated by this title shall be erected at the
intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision; or at any location where, by reason of the position, shape or color, it
may interfere with, obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device, or which makes use of the words, "stop",
"look", "drive-in", "danger" or any other word, phrase, symbol or character in
such manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic. (Ord., 11-14-
1974)
10-8-10: PRIVATE PARK, PLAYGROUND OR RECREATIONAL AREA:
In all residential zones, a private park, playground or recreational area, with
or without a swimming pool, shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   Ownership, Operation: The lands and facilities used for such purpose
shall be owned or leased and operated by a nonprofit corporation for the
exclusive benefit of the members, their immediate families and nonpaying
guests.
   B.   Sanitation: Adequate restrooms and sanitary facilities shall be
provided and kept available for use by members, their families and guests, and
shall be maintained in proper working order and in a clean and sanitary
condition and in full compliance with the reasonable standards, rules and
regulations established by the Weber County health department.
   C.   Parking: Twenty five (25) off street parking spaces, or one off street
parking space for each four (4) memberships in the operating corporation,
whichever is greater, shall be provided on the lot devoted to the principal
use.
   D.   Hours: Operation or use of the recreational or other facilities
provided is forbidden between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. next following.
   E.   Setbacks: All facilities, equipment and buildings shall be set back not
less than thirty feet (30') from any property line and shall be located not
less than fifty feet (50') from any main building on an adjoining lot and from
any area upon which any such main building may be constructed upon said
adjoining lot if no such main building is in existence.
   F.   Lot Size: The minimum size of the lot or suite used for such
recreational or other purposes shall be one acre.
   G.   Lighting: Any lights used to illuminate the premises shall be installed
in such manner that the source of light shall be suitably screened to avoid
annoying illumination of lands outside said premises. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-8-11: PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATIONS:
In all residential zones, public utility substations shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Lot Area: Each public utility substation in a residential zone shall be
located on a lot not less than two thousand (2,000) square feet in area.
   B.   Yards: Each public utility substation in a residential zone shall be
provided with a yard on each of the four (4) sides of the building not less
than five feet (5') in width, except that four (4) such stations located on
lots fronting on a street abutted by one or more residential lots, the front
yard, side yards and rear yard shall equal those required for a single-family
residence in the same zone.
   C.   Street Access: Each public utility substation in a residential zone
shall be located on a lot which has adequate access from a street, alley or
easement.
   D.   Location To Be Approved: The location of a public utility substation in
a residential zone shall be subject to approval by the planning commission.
(Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-8-12: SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE; TENNIS COURT, PRIVATE; BASKETBALL STANDARD AND
COURT, PRIVATE:
   A.   Swimming Pool, Private: No such pool shall be allowed in any zoning
district except as an accessory use and unless it complies with the following
conditions and requirements:
      1.   It is an accessory use to main building and is located within the
side or rear yard thereof;
      2.   It is intended and is to be used solely for the enjoyment of the
occupants and guests of the principal use of the property on which it is
located;
      3.   It may not be located closer than six feet (6') from water's edge to
property line of the property on which it is located;
      4.   It shall not be less than thirty feet (30') from any neighbor's
primary dwelling, or twenty feet (20') from any side lot line of an adjacent
vacant lot;
      5.   It shall not have less than six feet (6') hard surface around the
pool;
      6.   The swimming pool, or the entire property on which it is located,
shall be walled or fenced to a minimum height of six feet (6'). The fence shall
be constructed to limit any individual from accessing the pool area. The fence
shall comply with all current building codes. All gates on said fences shall be
self- closing and fitted with a self-latching device located on the interior
side of the gate;
      7.   Where a swimming pool is completely enclosed in a building, the
location requirement for accessory and main building shall apply. Where a
swimming pool is to be located in the near vicinity of any septic tank or
sewage disposal drainfield, the location must be approved by the Weber County
health department; and
      8.   Any aboveground pool lighting shall be installed and directed such
that the light source or light bulb is not directly visible from any point five
feet (5') high along the neighboring property line.
      9.   Summary of U.S. consumer product safety commission (CPSC) swimming
pool barrier (barriers for residential swimming pools spas, and hot tubs) will
be followed.
   B.   Tennis Court, Private: No tennis court shall be allowed in any zoning
district except as an accessory use and unless it complies with the following
conditions and requirements:
      1.   It is an accessory use to main building and is located within the
side or rear yard thereof;
      2.   It is intended and is to be used solely for the enjoyment of the
occupants and guest of the principal use of the property on which it is
located;
      3.   It may not be located closer than six feet (6') to any property line
of the property on which it is located. It shall not be less than thirty feet
(30') from any neighbor's dwelling or twenty feet (20') from any side lot line
of any adjacent vacant lot;
      4.   On a corner lot where the rear lot line is coterminous with a side
lot line of an adjoining lot, it shall be located not less than twenty five
feet (25') from such lot line, any neighbors' nonlivable area, which includes,
but is not limited to, the garage, carport, or storage areas;
      5.   Any court lighting shall be installed and directed such that the
light source or light bulb is not directly visible from any point five feet
(5') high along the neighboring property line.
   C.   Basketball Standard And Court, Private: A single basketball standard
and court shall not be considered a structure or accessory structure in any
residential zoning district. The placement of a basketball standard or court
shall be in accordance with the following requirements:
      1.   A light erected in conjunction with the basketball standard or court
shall be installed and directed such that the light source or light bulb is not
directly visible from any point five feet (5') high along the neighboring
property line; and
      2.   A net or other portable device may be erected up to thirteen feet
(13') in height behind the basketball standard to protect the ball from falling
onto the adjacent property. (Ord. 2016-02, 5-5-2016, eff. 5-5-2016; amd. Ord.
2024-05, 6-6-2024)
10-8-13: MOBILE HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Mobile Homes: Mobile homes are not permitted within any zone in the
city.
   B.   Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   Recreational vehicles need to be parked twenty feet (20') behind the
front property line on the side or rear of the existing residence structure and
is to be parked on a hard surface area, such as concrete, asphalt or gravel
pad.
      2.   A "recreational vehicle" (RV) as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title, which is located on private property, may be occupied by
a person or persons for up to fourteen (14) days per quarter not to exceed
thirty (30 days in a year. A Family member, or members, may occupy and RV for
up to nine (9) months with an approved RV temporary occupancy permit issued by
the city to the property owner and RV owner.
         a.   Applicants need to be present at time application is applied for
and issued;
         b.   Permit fees are to be paid in full to the city at time of
application;
         c.   RV permit will not be renewable for 365 days after permit
expires; and
         d.   No more than one (1) recreational vehicle occupancy permit shall
be issued for any property and or property owner at one time.
      3.   The addressed site and RV needs to be inspected for access and
safety around RV.
         a.   At least two additional hard surface parking stalls need to be
available
         b.   Utility hookups inspected for safety issues prior to approval of
permit and needs to meet all city's requirements for temporary occupancy of an
RV.
      4.   At any time, the site and RV may be subject to an inspection by the
city to verify compliance with the permit, if the property or RV are not in
compliance with any sections of the city's ordinances, the RV permit will be
null and void.
      5.   All recreational vehicles are to be in good repair and maintained
regularly. Failure to comply with these requirements will result in a class C
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2009-11, 12-3-2009, eff. 12-3-2009; Ord. 2022-05, 5-5-2022,
eff. 5-5-2022)
10-8-14: STANDARDS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
   A.   Codes And Standards:
      1.   Any dwelling or other structure which is designed or intended for
human habitation must meet the standards of the international residential code
(IRC) and other codes as adopted by the city, or if it is a manufactured home,
it must meet the standards of, and be certified under the national manufactured
housing and standards act of 1974, and must prominently display an insignia
approved by the United States department of housing and urban development (HUD)
and must not have been altered in violation of such codes.
   B.   Additional Requirements:
      1.   In addition to the above codes and standards, the following
requirements shall also be met:
         a.   The dwelling must be permanently connected and attached to a site
built permanent foundation and, if a manufactured house, which meets IRC
guidelines for manufactured housing installations if a manufactured house. Any
enclosure must be secured to the perimeter of the dwelling and constructed of
materials that are weather resistant and aesthetically consistent with concrete
and masonry foundation materials.
         b.   The dwelling must be permanently connected to and approved for
all required utilities.
         c.   The dwelling must be taxed as real property. If the dwelling is a
manufactured home, an affidavit must be filed with the State Tax Commission
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 2, and qualified therefor as
an improvement to real estate.
         d.   The dwelling must provide a minimum of seventy two (72) square
feet of enclosed storage with the minimum height of six feet (6') and located
in a basement or garage area or in an accessory storage structure. Such
structure shall conform to all applicable Building Codes.
         e.   Porches and landings for ingress and egress to the dwelling must
be built in accordance with requirements of the IRC as adopted by the State of
Utah.
         f.   At least sixty percent (60%) of the roof must be at least two to
twelve (2:12) pitch and shall have a roof surface of wood shakes, asphalt,
composition, wood shingles, concrete, metal tiles, slate, built up gravel
materials or other materials approved by the Building Code as adopted by the
State of Utah.
         g.   The dwelling shall be exterior siding consisting of wood,
masonry, concrete, stucco, masonite or metal or vinyl lap. The roof overhang,
including rain gutters, shall not be less than one foot (1'), measured from the
vertical side of the building but not including bay windows, nooks, morning
rooms, etc.
         h.   The width of the dwelling shall be at least twenty feet (20') at
the narrowest point of its first story for a depth of at least twenty feet
(20') exclusive of any garage area. The width shall be considered the lesser of
two (2) primary dimensions. If the width of the dwelling faces a street and is
less than one-half (1/2) of the length, the required off street parking shall
be in a two (2) car garage attached to the length of the dwelling.
         i.   Required off street parking spaces shall be side by side.
         j.   The City building inspector, as the Zoning Enforcement Officer,
in concert with the Planning Commission, may approve deviations from one or
more of the development or architectural standards provided herein on the basis
of a finding that the architectural style proposed provides compensating design
features and that the proposed dwelling will be compatible and harmonious with
existing structure in the vicinity. Together, they may also require other
deviations to achieve the overall goals and purposes of this chapter.
         k.   These requirements may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 2013-06, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
   C.   Parking Regulations:
      1.   Garages: In Residential R-1-11, RE-15, RE-18.5 and RE-20 Zones there
shall be provided in a detached or attached garage or in an area located where
a future garage could be constructed on the same lot as the dwelling two (2)
side by side concrete or asphalt surfaced parking spaces per dwelling unit and
paved driveway access leading from the property line or property line when
street curb and gutter are not present. Nondwelling permitted uses shall locate
the parking for the use on a hard surface of concrete or asphalt behind the
setback required for the main building unless otherwise stated in City
ordinances. (Ord. 2014-15, 5-15-2014, eff. 5-15-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-01, 1-3-
2019, eff. 1-4-2019)
      2.   Additional Off Street Parking:
         a.   Parking or storing of additional operational and licensed
vehicles in required front yard setback of a dwelling may be allowed provided
that the following conditions are complied with:
            (1)   The dwelling unit has the minimum number of two (2) required
off street parking spaces and access to those parking spaces is on a concrete
or asphalt driveway.
            (2)   Any additional parking space must remain open and
unobstructed to the sky.
            (3)   The surface treatment for the additional vehicle parking and
the access to the additional parking if located in the side yard is either road
base, gravel or a hard surface material of concrete or asphalt.
            (4)   The additional parking space in the front yard is limited to
only the area between the hard surface driveway and the nearest side yard
property line. Parking cannot extend into the area between the dwelling and the
street nor in the side yard facing a street on a corner lot.
            (5)   All stormwater runoff must be directed to prevent drainage
onto adjacent properties.
            (6)   No additional parking space or vehicle shall be located in
the side yard or front yard setback facing a street on a corner lot.
            (7)   The surface treatment for vehicle parking in the A-1 and A-
2 zones consist of a solid surface thirty feet (30') from the front of the
structure with gravel or road base extending to the road. (Ord. 2014-15, 5-15-
2014, eff. 5-15-2014)
10-8-15: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Definitions:
 
                                 Is the process of landscaping, or gardening,
                                 that reduces or eliminates the need for
                                 irrigation. It is promoted in regions that do
                                 not have accessible, plentiful, or reliable
XERISCAPE:                       supplies of fresh water and is gaining
                                 acceptance in other regions as access to
                                 irrigation water is becoming limited, though
                                 it is not limited to such climates.
                                 Xeriscaping may be an alternative to various
                                 types of traditional gardening.
                                 Storm water and land use management strategy
                                 that strives to mimic pre-development
                                 hydrologic processes of infiltration,
LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT OR “LIDfiltration, storage, evaporation, and
                                 transpiration by emphasizing conservation, use
                                 of onsite natural features, site planning, and
                                 distributed storm water management practices
                                 that integrated into a project design.
 
   B.   All landscaping plantings for newly built or reconstructed residential
and commercial sites shall comply with the city's updated landscape plan with
applying Xeriscape low irrigating and LID methods where applicable and be
maintained in a healthy and attractive way.
   C.   The following may also be used as landscaping when they are combined
with installed living plant material:
      1.   Water features (e.g., fountains, falls and streams) and sculptures.
      2.   Paving materials (i.e., bricks, pavers, flagstones, textured
concrete) used to create a useful open space, add color or texture to the
design, and create visual interest provided that such materials in the front
yard setback are used only as trim or edging and not used as patios, sports
surfaces, or areas where vehicles can be parked.
      3.   Properties shall consist of a balance of living and nonliving
landscape that do not violate any other federal, state, or municipal statute,
ordinance or law.
      4.   Xeriscape preparation and methods includes using rocks, gravel,
mulches, or wood chips solely or as ground covers.
         a.   Appropriate planning and design;
         b.   Limiting turf to locations where it provides functional benefits;
         c.   Efficient irrigation systems;
         d.   Use of soil amendments and mulches to improve water holding
capacities;
         e.   Use of drought tolerant plants;
         f.   Decorative hardscape; and
         g.   Appropriate and timely maintenance.   
         h.   Properties shall comply with the fencing and setback requirement
of all Plain City ordinances.
   D.   Xeriscape materials shall be contained so as not to spill into the
public right of way. (Ord. 2017-05, 2-16-2017, eff. 2-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-
12, 11-3-2022, eff. 11-3-2022)
10-8-16: RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:
   A.   A newly built or reconstructed residential area within the public right
of way between the curb and gutter and the sidewalk, otherwise known as the
park strip, shall be landscaped using Xeriscape methods only, park strip
landscaping shall not exceed a maximum height of three feet (3') for shrubs
placed so that it will not obstruct sight distance and trees in the park strip
shall have a minimum height of eight feet (8') for the lowest branches of a
tree when they extend above the curb or sidewalk. Notwithstanding the branch
height, Only City approved park strip trees are allowed. Public right of way
defined by a curb or gutter shall be landscaped utilizing Xeriscape low
irrigating methods listed below:
      1.   Trees: trees spaced at a maximum of forty feet (40') on center;
Ground Covers, Shrubs: When shrubs or ground covers other than grass is used
for landscaping, the spacing, type and size of plants used shall be such that
seventy five percent (75%) of all landscaped areas shall be covered with living
material within three (3) years of planting; or
      2.   Rock Ground Cover with Trees: Rock ground cover with trees spaced at
a maximum of forty feet (40') on center. When such rock ground cover is used,
there shall not be a concrete surface underneath the ground cover. The rocks
used in the ground cover must be smaller than 1.5 inches, then: Areas of low
water living plant material in a distinguishable patterned design, or a varying
rock size or color pattern may be used.
   B.   All trees shall be a minimum of a two-inch (2") caliper and selected
from the city's approved tree list.
   C.   Any damage to city property created by vegetation will be the
responsibility of the property owner. (Ord. 2022-12, 11-3-2022, eff. 11-3-2022)
10-8-17: COMMERCIAL LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:
   A.   A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of all commercial sites including the
park strip and landscaped detention (excluding the building footprint) shall be
landscaped using low watering Xeriscape methods. Any damage to city property
created by vegetation will be the responsibility of the property owner.
   B.   All landscaping using low watering plants shall be serviced by an
acceptable underground or irrigation bubbler/drip system which includes an
automatic timer.
   C.   Low water landscaping using Xeriscape methods is required on all newly
built and reconstructed commercial sites. All landscape plans showing placement
of low watering bushes, trees and plants needs to be approved by the Planning
Commission.
   D.   All Parking Lot Landscaping: Is required to use 100% Xeriscape, low
watering and LID methods where applicable.
   E.   Location: The Xeriscape methods should be located in protected areas,
such as along walkway, in center islands, at the ends of bays, park strips or
between parking stalls. All landscaping using Xeriscape methods in parking
areas and on the street, frontage shall be placed so that it will not obstruct
sight distance.
   F.   Plant Type: low watering plants and deciduous trees shall be planted.
Plants that provide maximum screening at ground level up to three and one-half
feet (31/2') should be used along the perimeter of the lot for screening, and
the deciduous trees for shade within the lot. The area between trees shall be
rocked, mulched, planted with low watering plants shrubs, or covered with
paving material. Any area that will be under the overhang of vehicles shall be
rocked, mulched or covered with paving materials. All trees shall have a
minimum of a two-inch (2") caliper and selected from the city's approved tree
list.
   G.   Walkway: A minimum five foot (5') wide walkway shall be installed which
connects the parking lot to the main entrance of the building and also leads to
the public sidewalk parallel to the street. This walk shall be of a different
material from the parking lot surface so it is easily identified and separates
pedestrian traffic routes from the vehicle movement patterns.
   H.   Any damage to city property created by vegetation will be the
responsibility of the property owner.
   I.   Parking Areas: Parking areas shall have concrete edging installed to
separate landscaping using Xeriscape methods from parking areas. Required
parking areas shall install landscaped islands using Xeriscape methods with
raise curbs. Islands shall not be placed over asphalt or concrete. A curb shall
be provided along all interior roadways to prevent vehicular intrusion into
landscaped areas. Whenever a landscaped island under this provision is
required, it shall be a minimum width of nine feet (9') and shall extend the
length of the parking stalls it abuts. Landscaped using Xeriscape methods
island shall be required for each of the following conditions:
      1.   The end of each row of stalls if the row exceeds ten (10) parking
stalls in length.
      2.   One island shall be placed to divide a longer row of stalls so there
are no more than twenty (20) stalls between islands.
      3.   To define parking lot entrances.
      4.   To define the main interior circulation road pattern.
      5.   All Landscaped areas must be constructed using approved Xeriscape
methods to conserve irrigating.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1405.png]
 
(Ord. 2022-12, 11-3-2022, eff. 11-3-2022)
10-8-18: SITE PLAN APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   A site plan shall be submitted to the Planning Commission which shows
the location of main and accessory buildings on the site and in relation to one
another, the traffic circulation features within the site, the height, bulk and
character of building, the provision for off street parking space, the
provision of driveways for ingress and egress, the provision for other open
space on the site and the display of signs. Each of the foregoing features
shall be in accordance with the site plan (or subsequent amendment thereof) of
the proposed development approved by the Planning Commission prior to the
issuance of a building permit.
   B.   A site plan shall include landscaping applying Xeriscape, low
irrigation methods and LID (Low Impact Developments) practices, fences and
walls designed to further the purpose of the regulations for commercial,
manufacturing and multiple housing zones, and such features shall be provided
and maintained as a condition of the establishment and the maintenance of any
use to which they are appurtenant. The site plan shall include a Comprehensive
Sign Plan.
   C.   In considering any site plan, the Planning Commission shall endeavor to
assure safety and convenience of traffic movement, both within the area covered
and in relation to access streets, harmonious and beneficial relation among the
buildings and uses in the area covered, and satisfactory harmonious relation
between such area and contiguous land and buildings and adjacent neighborhoods,
and that the requirements of this title have been met.
   D.   In approving site plans, the Planning Commission may act on a site plan
submitted to it or may act on its own initiative in proposing and approving a
site plan, including any conditions or requirements designated or specified
therein or in connection therewith.
   E.   The process for site plan reviews is established in section
11-3-3, "Technical Review", of this Code. (Ord. 2017-08, 7-20-2017, eff. 7-20-
2017; amd. Ord. 2022-12, 11-3-2022, eff. 11-3-2022)
CHAPTER 9
PARKING AND LOADING SPACES; VEHICLE ACCESS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose And Intent
10-9-2: Parking Spaces For Dwellings
10-9-3: Parking Spaces For Nondwelling Buildings
10-9-4: Computation Of Parking Requirements
10-9-5: Parking Lot Design And Maintenance
10-9-6: Off Street Truck Loading Space
10-9-7: Businesses Requiring Automobile Access
10-9-8: Vehicular Traffic To Commercial Zones
10-9-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate parking and loading spaces, vehicle
traffic and access in order to provide orderly and adequate development of
these needed amenities, and in so doing promote the safety and well being of
the citizens of the city. Consequently, there shall be provided at the time of
the erection of any main building or at the time any main building is enlarged
or increased, minimum off street parking space with adequate provisions for
ingress and egress by standard sized automobiles. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-9-2: PARKING SPACES FOR DWELLINGS:
In all zones there shall be provided in a private garage or in an area properly
located for a future garage:
   A.   For a single-family dwelling, two (2) side by side, nontandem parking
spaces.
   B.   For a two-family dwelling, four (4) side by side, nontandem spaces.
   C.   If any dwelling unit is increased by occupant use after the original
building permit is issued, the parking requirements shall reflect that
increase.
   D.   In addition to the above parking space requirements, one parking space
shall be provided for every two (2) paying guests residing in such dwelling
units. Such paying guests refers to the rental of sleeping rooms within the
dwelling unit.
   E.   A hard surface slab may be installed in the required side yard setback
for access to permitted parking in the rear yard. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-9-3: PARKING SPACES FOR NONDWELLING BUILDINGS:
For new buildings or for enlargement or increase in seating capacity, floor
area or guestrooms of any existing building there shall be provided:
Accountant office   4 spaces per professional staff member
Apartment hotel   1 space per 2 sleeping units
Auditors office   4 spaces per professional staff member
Auto repair shop   1 space per employee plus 5 spaces for client use
Bank   Not less than 30 spaces
Barbershop   2 spaces per staff member
Beautician shop   3 spaces per staff member
Boarding house   3 spaces per 4 persons to whom rooms will be rented
Business office   1 space per employee on highest shift
Cafe   1 space per eating booth and table, plus 1 space per 3 stools
Cafeteria   1 space per eating booth and table, plus 1 space per 3 stools
Car wash   4 spaces in approach lane to each wash bay
Chiropractor office   4 spaces per professional staff member
Church   1 space per 5 fixed seats
Clinic   4 spaces per professional staff member, plus 1 space per subordinate
staff member
Club, private   At least 20 client spaces
Dance hall   1 space per 200 square feet of floor space
Daycare center   1 space per employee, plus 4 spaces for client use
Dental office   4 spaces per professional staff member, plus 1 space per
subordinate staff member
Drive in food establishment   1 space per 100 square feet of floor space but
not less than 10 spaces
Dry cleaner   1 space per employee, plus 5 spaces for client use
Educational institution (private)   2 spaces per 3 student capacity, plus 1
space per staff member
Employment office   1 space per employee, plus 6 spaces for client use
Finance office   1 space per staff member, plus 3 spaces for client use
Fraternity   2 spaces per 4 persons whom the building is designed to
accommodate
Furniture store   1 space per 300 square feet of retail sales floor space
Gymnasium or health club   1 space per 100 square feet of gross area in
building
Hospital   1 space per 2 bed capacity
Hotel   1 space per 2 sleeping units
Insurance office   1 space per staff member, plus 4 spaces for client use
Laboratory   1 space per employee on highest shift
Laundromat   1 space per 3 coin operated machines
Legal office   4 spaces per professional staff member
Library   At least 30 spaces
Liquor store   At least 20 spaces
Lodging house   3 spaces per 4 persons to whom rooms will be rented
Lounge   At least 20 client spaces
Medical office   4 spaces per professional staff member, plus 1 space per
subordinate staff member
Mortuary   At least 30 spaces
Motel   1 space per sleeping or living unit
Museum   At least 30 spaces
Nightclub   At least 20 client spaces
Nursery for children   1 space per employee, plus 4 spaces for client use
Nursing home   1 space per 2 bed capacity
Optometrist office   4 spaces per professional staff, plus 1 space per
subordinate staff member
Photo studio   At least 6 spaces
Post office   At least 20 client spaces
Psychiatric office   4 spaces per professional staff member, plus 1 space per
subordinate staff member
Real estate office   1 space per employee, plus 4 spaces for client use
Reception center   At least 30 spaces
Recreation center   1 space per 200 square feet of recreation area
Rental establishment   At least 4 client spaces
Restaurant   1 space per eating booth or table
Retail store   1 space per 200 square feet of sales floor space in building
Retail store with drive in
window   1 space per 200 square feet of sales floor space in building, plus
storage capacity of 4 cars per window on the property
Sanitarium   1 space per 2 bed capacity
Service repair shop, general   At least 4 client spaces
Sorority   2 spaces per 4 persons whom the building was designed to accommodate
Stadium   1 space per 5 fixed seats
Tavern   At least 15 spaces
Terminal, transportation   At least 30 spaces
Theater   1 space per 5 fixed seats
Travel agency   1 space per employee, plus 4 spaces for client use
Upholstery shop   1 space per employee, plus 3 spaces for client use
Used car lot   1 space per employee, plus 4 spaces for client use
Warehouse   2 spaces per 3 employees
Wedding chapel   At least 30 spaces
Wholesale business   2 spaces per 3 employees, plus 3 spaces for client use
For other uses not listed above   3 spaces per 4 persons on the highest
employment shift
(Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-9-4: COMPUTATION OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
When measurements determining number of required parking spaces result in a
fractional space, any fraction up to one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded, and
fractions including one-half (1/2) and over shall require one parking space.
(Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-9-5: PARKING LOT DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Parking Lot Location: Parking spaces as required in sections
10-9-2 and
10-9-3 of this chapter shall be on the same lot with the main building or, in
the case of buildings other than dwellings, may be located no farther than five
hundred feet (500') therefrom.
   B.   Public Parking Lot Standards: Every parcel of land hereafter used as a
public parking area shall be paved with an asphalt or concrete surface and
shall have appropriate bumper guards or curbs where needed as determined by the
building inspector to protect adjacent property owners or persons using a
sidewalk. Catch basins and drains shall be provided to collect surface drainage
of all paved areas at a minimum rate of one inch (1") an hour rainfall.
   C.   Maximum Yard Area To Be Used For Parking And Vehicle Access Lanes: For
all uses permitted in a residential zone, none of the front yard or side yard
facing a street on a corner lot area required by the respective zones shall be
used for parking but shall be left in open space, except that access across and
over the required front yard is allowed to the side or rear yards.
   D.   Design And Maintenance: The design and maintenance of off street
parking facilities shall be subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Each parking space shall encompass not less than one hundred eighty
(180) square feet of net area. Each parking space shall be not less than nine
feet (9') wide, the width being measured at a right angle to the side lines of
the parking space.
      2.   Adequate automobile access to and from parking areas for interior
block developments shall be provided. Minimum size of the access strip shall be
as follows based on the number of units to be served:
         a.   Up to and including four (4) dwelling units, twelve feet (12').
         b.   From five (5) to eleven (11) dwelling units, one 24-foot two-way
access strip or two (2) 12-foot one-way access strips.
         c.   Twelve (12) or more dwelling units, one 36-foot two-way access
strip, or two (2) 18-foot one-way access strips.
         d.   A greater size of access strip may be required as deemed
necessary by the planning commission.
      3.   All off street parking spaces and associated access lanes shall be
effectively screened on any side adjoining any property in a residential zone
by a masonry wall or fence not less than three and one-half feet (31/2') nor
more than seven feet (7') high, except that some type of hedgerow shrubs may be
used in place of a wall or fence, provided the hedge is continuous along
adjoining property and at maturity is not less than three and one-half feet
(31/2') nor more than seven feet (7') high. Hedgerow shrubs shall be maintained
and replaced where necessary in order that the hedge may become an effective
screen from bordering property within a maximum five (5) year period. Front
yard and corner lot fences or plantings shall maintain height requirements of
their respective zones.
      4.   Lighting and signs shall conform to the requirements set forth in
this title.
      5.   Parking requirements for dwellings will be located on the same lot
with the dwelling. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-9-6: OFF STREET TRUCK LOADING SPACE:
On the same premises with every building or use involved with the receipt or
distribution by vehicles of materials or merchandise, there shall be provided
and maintained on the lot adequate space for standing, loading and unloading
services in order to avoid undue interference with public use of streets or
alleys. Such space, unless otherwise adequately provided, shall include a ten
foot by twenty five foot (10' x 25') loading space with fourteen feet (14')
height clearance, for every twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or fraction
thereof in excess of three thousand (3,000) square feet of land use for above
mentioned purposes. (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd. 2003 Code)
10-9-7: BUSINESSES REQUIRING AUTOMOBILE ACCESS:
Service stations, roadside stands, public parking lots and all other businesses
requiring motor vehicle access shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   Access to the station or other structure or parking lot shall be by not
more than two (2) roadways for each one hundred feet (100') or fraction thereof
of frontage on any street; no two (2) of said roadways shall be closer to each
other than twelve feet (12'); each of said roadways shall be not more than
thirty four feet (34') in width and shall not be closer than twenty feet (20')
to the point of intersection of two (2) property lines or at any street corner;
and a curb, hedge or fence of not more than two feet (2') in height shall be
provided by the owner to limit access to the permitted roadway.
   B.   Gasoline pumps shall be set back at least twenty feet (20') from any
property line bordering a street; provided, that a pump island parallel to and
adjoining a street may be located not less than fifteen feet (15') from the
property line bordering said street. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-9-8: VEHICULAR TRAFFIC TO COMMERCIAL ZONES:
Privately owned land within an area zoned for residential purposes shall not be
used as a regular means of vehicular passage to and from property in commercial
zones. (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd. Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
CHAPTER 10
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose And Intent
10-10-2: Conditional Use Permit
10-10-3: Review Procedure
10-10-4: Determination
10-10-5: Basis For Issuance Of Permit
10-10-6: Appeal
10-10-7: Building Permit
10-10-8: Expiration
10-10-9: Limited Residential Occupation; Conditional Use In All Zones
10-10-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of conditional uses is to allow in certain areas
compatible integration of uses which are related to the permitted uses of the
zone, but which may be suitable and desirable only in certain locations in that
zone due to conditions and circumstances peculiar to that location and/or upon
certain conditions which make the uses suitable and/or only if such uses are
designed, laid out and constructed on the proposed site in a particular manner.
(Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-10-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional
uses in the zone regulations. A conditional use permit may be revoked by the
City Council after review and recommendation by the Planning Commission, upon
failure to comply with the conditions imposed with the original approval of the
permit. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-10-3: REVIEW PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: Application for a conditional use permit shall be made to
the Planning Commission.
   B.   Plans Required: Detailed location, site and building plans shall
accompany the complete application forms provided by the City. For structures
in existence, only a location plan need be provided.
   C.   Consideration By Planning Commission: The application, together with
all pertinent information, shall be considered by the Planning Commission at
its next regularly scheduled meeting. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-10-4: DETERMINATION:
The Planning Commission may deny or permit a conditional use to be located
within any zone in which the particular conditional use is permitted. In
authorizing any conditional use, the Planning Commission shall impose such
requirements and conditions necessary for the protection of adjacent properties
and the public welfare. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-10-5: BASIS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The Planning Commission shall not authorize a conditional use permit unless
evidence is presented to establish that:
   A.   The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable
to provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-
being of the community; and
   B.   Such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case and
the conditions imposed, be detrimental to the health, safety and general
welfare of persons nor injurious to property or improvements in the community,
but will be compatible with and complimentary to the existing surrounding uses,
buildings and structures when considering traffic generation, parking, building
design and location, landscaping and signs; and
   C.   The proposed use will comply with the regulations and conditions
specified in this title for such use; and
   D.   The proposed use conforms to the goals, policies and governing
principles and land use of the Master Plan for the City; and
   E.   The proposed use will not lead to the deterioration of the environment,
or ecology of the general area, nor will it produce conditions or emit
pollutants of such a type or of such a quantity so as to detrimentally effect,
to any appreciable degree, public or private property, including the operation
of existing uses thereon, in the immediate vicinity or the community or area as
a whole. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
   F.   If the proposed use is to be privately owned, and not to be owned by a
governmental entity, and if the proposed use is to occupy a building of ten
thousand (10,000) square feet or more in floor area, the building constructed,
remodeled, or otherwise to be used for the proposed use will be maintained or
demolished so as to avoid creating an abandoned or blighted structure if the
use should be discontinued at any time in the future.
   G.   If the proposed use is the residential use of an existing
nonresidential building, the building will be remodeled or altered to make its
appearance compatible with other residential structures in the area. This basis
for issuance of a permit can be waived if the Land Use Authority determines
that the building is a historic structure and its preservation in a
nonresidential appearance would be necessary or desirable to promote the
general welfare of the community.
   H.   If the proposed use is an educational institution and if the proposed
use is to occupy a building of ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more in
floor area, the applicant for the permit will participate in the cost of any
roadway or sidewalk, or a study on the impact of a school on a roadway or
sidewalk, that is reasonably necessary for the safety of schoolchildren and not
located on or contiguous to school property. (Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009, eff. 9-3-
2009)
10-10-6: APPEAL:
The decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City Council by
following the procedures set forth in title 2, chapter 3 of this Code. (Ord.
2008-03, 1-17-2008, eff. 1-17-2008)
10-10-7: BUILDING PERMIT:
Upon receipt of a conditional use permit, the developer shall take such permit
to the building inspector who will review the permit and conditions attached.
Based on this review and compliance with any other items that might develop in
the pursuance of his duties, the building inspector may approve an application
for a building permit and shall ensure that development is undertaken and
completed in compliance with said permit and conditions pertaining thereto.
(Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-10-8: EXPIRATION:
Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit within a
period of one year of its issuance, as determined by the Planning Commission,
the conditional use permit shall expire. The Planning Commission may grant a
maximum extension of six (6) months under exceptional circumstances. (Ord., 11-
14-1974)
10-10-9: LIMITED RESIDENTIAL OCCUPATION 1
; CONDITIONAL USE IN ALL ZONES:
   A.   Limited residential occupation is any use conducted in the dwelling or
accessory building and carried on by persons residing in the dwelling unit,
which is clearly incidental and secondary to the dwelling purpose and does not
change the character thereof, and in connection with which there is no display
nor stock in trade, except where it is incidental to the main use.
   B.   Business licenses are conditional for one year, with a review of
conditions by the Governing Body. The license is not transferable and is void
upon sale of the property. The applicant must have written approval of all
property owners within five hundred feet (500').
   C.   The Governing Body will set conditions and limitations and will
include, but not be limited to, those listed below:
      1. Maximum allowable working area:
         a. Main dwelling, twenty five percent (25%) of main floor;
         b. Accessory building, up to thirty five percent (35%) of main
dwelling floor area.
      2. Employees: Limited to people residing in dwelling.
      3. Hours of operation.
      4. Parking and traffic.
      5. Other conditions and limitations as deemed necessary by the Governing
Body.
   D.   Limited residential occupation is not permitted in multiple-unit
dwellings, or accessory buildings at multiple-unit locations.
   E.   Limited residential occupation shall not include any activity which
amounts to a nuisance, hazard or be incompatible with the neighborhood or any
planned development of the neighborhood. It shall not include the sale of
anything of a toxic, flammable or dangerous nature. All provisions stated in
title 3 of this Code shall apply to a limited residential occupation.
   F.   The use must meet all health codes, fire codes and inspections before a
license is issued.
   G.   The fee for limited residential occupations is to be set by the
Governing Body yearly in the license fee schedule. (Ord., 10-8-1981; amd. 2003
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 13 of this title for home occupations.
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Maintenance, Repairs And Upkeep
10-11-2: Additions, Enlargements And Moving
10-11-3: Abandonment Of Building By Nonuse
10-11-4: Nonconforming Use Of Buildings
10-11-5: Abandonment Of Use Of Building By Nonuse
10-11-6: Abandonment Of Use Of Land By Nonuse
10-11-7: Nonconforming Use Compliance
10-11-8: Signs Permitted With Nonconforming Uses
10-11-1: MAINTENANCE, REPAIRS AND UPKEEP:
   A.   A nonconforming building or structure may be maintained.
   B.   Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a nonconforming
building.
   C.   A nonconforming building or structure which is damaged or partially
destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity or act of God, or
the public enemy, to the extent of not more than two and one-half (21/2) times
its assessed value at the time, may be restored and the occupancy or use of
such building, structure, or part thereof, which existed at the time of such
partial destruction, may be continued or resumed; provided, that such
restoration is started within a period of one year and is diligently prosecuted
to completion. In the event such damage or destruction exceeds two and one-half
(21/2) times the assessed valuation of such nonconforming building or
structure, no repairs or reconstruction, except in the case of dwelling
structures and other nonhazardous nonconforming uses, determined as such by the
hearing officer, shall be made. The nonconforming building, when reconstructed,
must not exceed the nonconforming status held before destruction. (Ord., 11-14-
1974; amd. Ord. 2020-09, 5-21-2020)
10-11-2: ADDITIONS, ENLARGEMENTS AND MOVING:
   A.   A building or structure nonconforming as to use regulations shall not
be added to or enlarged in any manner, unless such building or structure,
including such additions and enlargements, is made to conform to all the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   B.   A building or structure nonconforming as to height, area or yard
regulations shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such
addition and enlargement conforms to all the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
   C.   A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space in
connection therewith as required by this title may be altered or enlarged,
provided additional automobile parking space is supplied to meet the
requirements of this title for such alterations or enlargements.
   D.   No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in whole or in
part to any other location on the lot, unless every portion of such building or
structure is made to conform to all the regulations of the district in which it
is located. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-11-3: ABANDONMENT OF BUILDING BY NONUSE:
A nonconforming building or structure, or portion thereof, shall be deemed
abandoned by nonuse during a continuous period of one year. If a nonconforming
building or structure, or portion thereof, has been or shall be abandoned, the
same shall not thereafter be occupied or used except for a use which conforms
to the use regulations of the zone in which it is located. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-11-4: NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   The nonconforming use of a building or structure existing at the time
the applicable zoning regulations became or becomes effective may be continued.
   B.   A vacant nonconforming building or structure may be occupied by a use
for which the building or structure was designed or intended if so occupied
within a period of one year after the building or structure became
nonconforming.
   C.   A nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor area of
the existing building in which it was conducted at the time the use became
nonconforming.
   D.   Except by permit of the hearing officer, as provided in title 2,
chapter 2 of this code, the nonconforming use of a building or structure may
not be changed except to a conforming use; but where such change is made to a
conforming use, the use shall not thereafter be changed back to a nonconforming
use. (Ord., 11-14-1974; amd. Ord. 2020-09, 5-21-2020)
10-11-5: ABANDONMENT OF USE OF BUILDING BY NONUSE:
The nonconforming use of a building or structure or portion thereof shall be
deemed abandoned by nonuse during a continuous period of one year. If a
nonconforming use of any such building or structure or portion thereof has been
or shall be abandoned, the same shall not thereafter be occupied or used except
for a use which conforms to the use regulations of the zone in which it is
located. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-11-6: ABANDONMENT OF USE OF LAND BY NONUSE:
A nonconforming use of a tract of land, or portion thereof, may be continued.
No such nonconforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or extended
either on the same or any adjoining tract of land. A nonconforming use of land
shall be deemed vacant by nonuse immediately upon permanent discontinuation of
the nonconforming use. If a nonconforming use of land has been or shall be
zoned vacant, such land shall not thereafter be used or occupied except for a
use which conforms to the use regulations of the zone in which the use is
located. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-11-7: NONCONFORMING USE COMPLIANCE:
Any building or structure or use for which a valid building permit has been
issued and actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date
hereof, or amendments to the ordinance codified herein, may be completed and
used in accordance with the plans, specifications and permit on which said
building permit was granted. Actual construction is hereby defined to be: the
actual placing of construction materials in their permanent position, fastened
in a permanent manner, actual work in excavating a basement or the demolition
or removal of an existing structure begun preparatory to rebuilding; provided
that in all cases actual construction work shall be diligently carried on until
the completion of the building or structure involved. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
10-11-8: SIGNS PERMITTED WITH NONCONFORMING USES:
The permitted sign regulations for a nonconforming use are as set forth in
chapter 12 of this title. (Ord., 11-14-1974)
CHAPTER 12
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose And Intent
10-12-2: Definitions
10-12-3: Major Sign Types
10-12-4: General Provisions
10-12-5: Special Provisions
10-12-6: Exempt Signs
10-12-7: Design Standards
10-12-8: Specialty Signs Prohibited
10-12-9: Amortization Periods
10-12-10: Sign/Zone Regulations
10-12-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of the sign regulations set forth in this chapter shall be
to encourage signs, which by their good design, are aesthetically pleasing and
integrated with and harmonious to the buildings and sites which they occupy; to
preserve and improve the appearance of the City as a place in which to live and
work and as an attraction to nonresidents who come to visit or trade; to
effectively index the environment; to safeguard and enhance property values; to
protect public and private investment in buildings and open spaces; to
supplement and be a part of the regulations imposed and the plan set forth
under this title; to implement those portions of the general plan relating to
signage; and to promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   It is also the intent of this chapter to govern the number, size, type,
location and other provisions relating to signs within the various zones of the
City as the zones are established and designated by this title. No signs shall
be allowed in these zones unless exempt under this chapter or expressly
permitted by this title, or unless said signs comply with the regulations
established relating to legal nonconforming uses. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-18-2013,
eff. 4-19-2013)
10-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall be construed as
defined in this section:
CAMPAIGN SIGN: A sign urging the election or defeat of any candidate seeking
any political office, or urging the passage or defeat of any ballot measure,
but does not mean or include any billboard owned or maintained by a commercial
firm or advertising company.
COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT: Any C-1 and C-2 Zones as defined in this title.
FRONT FOOTAGE OF BUILDING OCCUPANCY: A single linear dimension measured
horizontally along the front major entrance of a building, which defines the
limits of a particular occupancy at the location.
FRONTAGE: The distance between the two (2) side lot lines of a parcel measured
along the street, to which the parcel is allowed main access. No State or
Federal highway to which no access is allowed shall be considered as frontage.
Frontage on a corner lot shall be limited to one street only.
HEIGHT OF SIGN: The vertical distance measured from the average grade of the
front property line to the highest point of said sign.
MANUFACTURING ZONE: Any C-3 Zone as defined in this title.
OCCUPANCY: A separate use of property carried on at all or a portion of a
building or parcel.
OUTLINE LIGHTING: Outlining of a building by means of exposed neon tubing,
exposed incandescent lighting or other artificial lighting, or an equivalent
effect.
RESIDENTIAL ZONE: Any A-1 and A-2 Zones as defined in this title. Any R-1-11,
RE-15, RE-18.5, RE-20, RE-30, and RE-40 Zones, as defined in this title.
SETBACK: The shortest horizontal distance between the property line of a lot
and the building or structure or part thereof. For the purposes of this title,
"setback" for signs shall be from the leading edge of the sign.
SIGN: Means and includes every advertising message, announcement, declaration,
demonstration, merchandise display, illustration, insignia, surface or space
erected or maintained in view of the observer thereof, for identification,
advertisement or promotion of the interests of any person, entity, product or
service, and shall include the sign structure, supports, lighting system and
any attachments, ornaments or other features used to draw the attention of
observers. "Sign" does not include any flag, badge or ensign of any government
or governmental agency erected for and used to identify said government or
governmental agency.
SIGN, ANIMATED: A mechanical sign with moving parts used for the purpose of
attracting public attention.
SIGN, AREA OF: The entire area within a single continuous perimeter composed of
squares or rectangles which enclose the extreme limits of the advertising
message, announcement, declaration, demonstration, display, illustration,
insignia, surface or space of a similar nature, together with any frame or
other material, color or condition which forms an integral part of the display
and is used to differentiate such sign from the wall or background against
which it is placed; excluding the necessary supports or uprights on which such
sign is placed. Where an on premises sign has two (2) or more faces which are
not parallel, the area of all faces shall be included in determining the area
of the sign except that only one face of a double faced on premises sign shall
be considered in determining the sign area, provided both faces are parallel
and the distance between faces does not exceed two feet (2'). Further, where a
sign consists only of individual letters, numbers, symbols or other similar
components and is painted on or attached flat against the wall of a building,
and where such individual components are without integrated background
definition and are not within a circumscribed frame area, the total area of the
sign shall be the sum of the areas of the square or rectangle surrounding each
individual sign component.
SIGN, ATTACHED: A sign which is fastened, attached, painted, connected or
supported in whole or in part by a building or structure.
SIGN, BILLBOARD: A detached or attached sign located on property within the
city designed or intended to direct attention to a business, product or service
that is not sold, offered or existing on the property where the sign is
located. For the purpose of this definition, bus benches shall not be defined
as a billboard.
SIGN, CIVIC, INSTITUTIONAL OR PHILANTHROPIC: A sign erected by a public or
nonprofit agency, service club, etc., for civic or public information and/or
activities.
SIGN, CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE: On property at any corner formed by intersecting
streets, it shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant to install any sign of
obstruction to a clear view to a height greater than three feet (3') above the
level of the center of the adjacent intersection within the triangle of land
formed on the corner of the lot by measuring a distance of fifteen feet (15')
along each lot line from the street property line intersection (see diagram
below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1311.gif]
 
SIGN, CONSTRUCTION: A sign related to the property upon which it is located and
offering such property for sale or lease, or advertising contemplated
improvements, or announcing the name of the builder, owner, designer or
developer of the project.
SIGN, DETACHED: Any sign which serves wholly to designate the location or
direction of any place or area.
SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE: A sign that is capable of displaying a changeable
electronic message or image (to be prohibited in residential zones).
SIGN, HOME OCCUPATION: A sign associated with a legally approved home business.
SIGN, IDENTIFICATION: A sign which serves to tell only the name, address and
lawful use of the premises upon which it is located.
SIGN, LOW PROFILE: On premises or identification signs having a maximum height
of six feet (6').
SIGN, MEMORIAL: A sign or tablet that states the names of buildings or the date
of the building's erection and cut into the surface of the facade of a
building.
SIGN, NEIGHBORHOOD IDENTIFICATION: A permanent sign, that only designates the
neighborhood or tract name.
SIGN, NONCONFORMING: A sign legally existing at the time of its erection of the
effective date hereof which does not now conform to use regulations of the
district in which it is located.
SIGN, OFF SITE: Any sign not located on the premises of the business or entity
indicated or advertised by said sign. This definition shall include billboards,
poster panels, painted bulletins and other similar advertising displays.
SIGN, ON SITE: A sign directing attention to a business, commodity, service or
entertainment conducted, sold or offered on the premises on which the sign is
maintained.
SIGN, PERMANENT: A sign which is permanently affixed to the ground with a
footing designed to meet the requirements of this chapter and the Building
Code.
SIGN, PORTABLE: Any sign not permanently affixed to the ground or a structure
on the premises it is intended to occupy.
SIGN, REAL ESTATE: A sign related to the property upon which it is located and
offering such property for sale or lease.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: Any sign, banner, pennant, valance or advertising display
constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric, cardboard, wallboard, plastic or other
light materials, with or without frame, where the sign is not permanently
affixed to the ground or structure. Spotlights shall also be considered a
temporary sign. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 1-
4-2018, eff. 1-4-2018; Ord. 2019-01, 1-3-2019, eff. 1-4-2019; Ord. 2019-02, 1-
3-2019, eff. 1-4-2019; Ord. 2025-04, 2-20-2025)
10-12-3: MAJOR SIGN TYPES:
Business signs, identification and information signs, and specialty signs are
considered as major sign types for the purpose of this title. All signs will be
classified as belonging to one of the major sign types for regulatory measure.
(Ord. 2013-08, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-12-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conformity And Safety: If a sign does not conform with the requirements
of this chapter or if the construction, design, manner of use or method of
anchoring or supporting any sign makes such sign unsafe, the chief building
official shall proceed in any manner he deems necessary to cause the removal of
the sign or the rebuilding of the sign to conform with the requirements of this
chapter or to remedy the defects therein. All signs must meet the requirements
of the Building Codes and safety regulations of the City.
   B.   Clearance: There shall be a minimum clearance of ten feet (10') between
the finished grade of the bottom of a projecting sign, with the exception of
public necessity signs, nameplates, and monument signs.
   C.   Copy Area: Copy area of building facade signs or multiple copy signs
shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the background facing to which it is
applied.
   D.   Height Of Signs: No sign shall exceed the height limitations
established for each zone as set forth in section
10-12-10 of this chapter.
   E.   Lighting Of Signs: Signs may be illuminated by indirect lighting,
floodlights or luminous tubes only. No lighting shall be installed in any way
which will permit direct rays of such light to penetrate onto any adjoining
property used for residential purposes, or in any manner constituting a
nuisance. Animated signs are prohibited except as expressly provided herein.
   F.   Location Of Signs: No part of any sign shall be permitted to extend
across any property line or located in any required front or side yard except
as follows:
      1.   Business and identification signs attached to a building may project
into a required front or side yard not more than two feet (2') and not less
than ten feet (10') above the ground or sidewalk.
      2.   Ground business signs, including all portable type signs for
conforming uses only, shall not be located closer than ten feet (10') to a
front or side property line for that portion of the sign lower than ten feet
(10').
      3.   Property identification and service signs shall not be located
closer than three feet (3') to any property line.
      4.   Nameplates may be located anywhere on the property.
      5.   Any church, school, public building, or park, which does not have
frontage on a main street, may apply for a conditional use permit. The permit
will allow a sign to be erected according to ordinance on a shared property
line with the written permission of said property owner.
   G.   Maintenance Of Signs: Signs regulated by this chapter shall be
maintained in good visual appearance and structural condition at all times. The
City and its agents shall in no way be liable for negligence or failure of the
owner, or the person responsible for maintaining any sign, to keep such sign in
good condition, or be responsible for any damage caused by defective
conditions.
   H.   Misleading, Fraudulent, Obscene, Immoral, Indecent Or Signs Of
Unsightly Character Prohibited: No signs shall be erected or maintained, or be
permitted to remain publicly displayed, which are misleading, fraudulent,
obscene, immoral, indecent or unsightly in character.
   I.   Noise Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to use in connection with any
sign or to use for advertising purposes any radio, phonograph, whistle, bell or
any other sound or noisemaking or transmitting device or instrument for the
purpose of commercial advertising.
   J.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain or remodel
any sign upon or over public or private property within the city until a sign
permit with respect to such sign has been obtained from the chief building
official. The chief building official may at his discretion request the
planning commission to review a sign application.
   K.   Refusal Of Owner To Remove Dangerous Signs; Removal By City: Where
immediate action is deemed necessary to protect limb, life or property and
where the owner of a sign or the owner of the property on which the sign is
erected fails to remove such a sign pursuant to notice from the chief building
official within a specified time fixed in such notice, the chief building
official may proceed in any manner deemed necessary to cause the immediate
removal of such sign. The chief building official shall certify a statement of
the expenses incurred in such removal to the city treasurer who in turn shall
assess and charge the same against the real estate upon which the sign was
erected, and unless said assessment is paid within ninety (90) days after and
from the date of notice thereof the same shall, when recorded in the offices of
the county clerk and city recorder, become a lien upon the real estate whereon
the sign was erected and collectible in the same manner as general taxes.
   L.   Removal Of Conforming Signs: Any person occupying a building or portion
of a building, who owns or maintains a sign in connection therewith shall, upon
vacating the premises, or discontinuing the business advertised, cause the sign
to be removed. Any person who owns and maintains a sign which is maintained for
the benefit of another person who occupies a building or part of a building
whereon the sign is located shall cause the sign to be removed if the person
for whom the sign is maintained vacates the premises. Failure of the owner of
the sign or of the person responsible for maintaining the same to remove the
sign within thirty (30) days after notice from the chief building official
shall be considered as a violation of this chapter and shall subject the owner
of the sign and the owner of the property to the penalties herein provided.
   M.   Removal Of Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   Any sign not in conformance with the provisions of this chapter and
which was erected or installed without a permit, shall be removed within thirty
(30) days upon notification from the chief building official.
      2.   Signs for which permits were previously issued and which are made
nonconforming by the provisions of this chapter shall be permitted to remain in
accordance with section
10-12-9 of this chapter. Under no circumstances shall such nonconforming signs
be remodeled or replaced. The provision of subsection K of this section shall
apply to such nonconforming signs.
      3.   Any existing sign, conforming to the provisions of this chapter
relative to size and location, but nonconforming as to structure requirements
shall be removed or replaced within one year upon written notice from the city.
However, if they are deemed to be a hazard or more than fifty percent (50%)
damaged, they shall be removed or repaired in accordance with the structural
requirements of this chapter, within ten (10) days after receiving notice from
the city.
      4.   Any sign on a building determined to be abandoned shall be removed
within thirty (30) days of notification by the chief building official to the
property owner and/or owner of the business advertisement and/or owner of the
sign.
   N.   Sign Inspection: The chief building official shall inspect each sign
for which a permit has been issued and shall require the proper maintenance of
all signs subject to the provisions of this chapter. No sign regulated by this
code shall be located on a corner lot at the intersection of any street within
the clear view triangle as defined.
   O.   Not To Cover Windows, Doors Or Similar Openings: No sign shall cover a
window, doorway or other opening providing light, ventilation or exit
facilities which are required by the building code or which are deemed by the
fire department to be necessary to give the fire department access to the
building, or to afford fire protection in the event of a fire; provided
however, that flat signs, wall signs, cloth signs and projecting signs shall be
permitted to cover transom.
   P.   Sign On Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to fasten
or attach, paint or place any "sign", as defined in this chapter, upon any
private wall, window, door, gate, fence or sign, or upon any other personal
property, without the consent of the owner or lessee, or someone authorized to
act on behalf of such owner or lessee.
   Q.   Sign On Public Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to fasten
or attach, paint or place any sign, handbill, poster, advertisement or notice
of any kind or sort, whether political or otherwise, or to cause the same to be
done in or upon the curbstone, lamppost, telephone pole, electric light or
power pole, hydrant, bridge or tree, or in or upon any portion of any sidewalk
or street. It shall be unlawful to paste, place, paint or attach any "sign", as
defined in this chapter, on any building, street or property of the city. No
sign shall be erected on or project over public property. The city reserves the
right to remove the signs installed on public property.
   R.   Sign Over Streets Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to erect and/or
maintain any sign over any street or alley, except as herein expressly
provided.
   S.   Sign Setback: For purposes of this chapter, the entire sign must comply
with the specified setback regulations.
   T.   Signs; Zones Permitted And Controls: It is unlawful for any person to
erect or otherwise install a sign having a size or height greater than allowed
in this chapter. It is unlawful for any person to erect or otherwise install a
sign located on a site or in a zone in violation of the regulations specified
in section
10-12-10 of this chapter.
   U.   Violations A Misdemeanor: Any person who shall fail to comply with, or
shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or any rules or
regulations promulgated hereunder, shall be deemed guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. The penalty provided herein shall be in addition to any
suspension or revocation of any license or permit issued hereunder. (Ord. 2013-
08, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-12-5: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Animated Signs: No animated signs shall be erected or maintained in the
city limits.
   B.   Blanketing: To prevent blanketing, no projecting or marquee sign shall
be erected to project more than twenty four inches (24"). Projection shall be
measured from the facing of the building and/or structure to which the sign is
attached.
   C.   Cloth Signs: Permits may be issued by the chief building official upon
approval by the city council for hanging of display banners or other cloth
decorations for special occasions, such as religious, charitable, civic or
festive occurrences, or for Christmas decorations, or in celebration of some
event of religious, national, state or civic significance or in honor of a
visit from a person or persons of note. It is specifically prohibited to
incorporate in any such decorations any political advertising or advertising of
a commercial nature. The chief building official may permit such signs to be
hung over public streets or walks after proper approval. Permits issued
pursuant to this subsection may be issued without charge of any fee, but shall
specify a period of time, not to exceed forty five (45) days, during which such
signs shall be permitted to be used.
   D.   Electric Signs: All signs which utilize or are illuminated by
electricity shall comply with the adopted electrical code and fire prevention
code of the city.
   E.   Marquee Signs: Marquee signs may be placed on, attached to or
constructed in a marquee. For the purpose of determining height, projection and
clearance, the standards as specified in the building code for a marquee shall
govern.
   F.   Political Or Campaign Signs: Political or campaign signs are permitted
in accordance with the following provisions; provided, that any such sign shall
be erected not earlier than sixty (60) days prior to the election at which time
the candidates or measure will be voted upon and shall be removed within
fifteen (15) days after such election, campaign or event.
      1.   On any residential lot, there is permitted not more than one
stationary, unlighted temporary sign per candidate provided the sign meets the
following requirements: such sign shall not exceed six feet (6') in height or
six (6) square feet in area. If attached, such sign shall not exceed the height
of the eaves line of the building.
      2.   On a commercial lot, signs are permitted on behalf of a candidate
for public office, or of a question on the ballot or announcing a campaign,
drive or event of a civic, philanthropic, educational or religious
organization; provided, that:
         a.   The total of such sign or signs on any lot shall not exceed sixty
five (65) square feet, except that larger signs may be placed upon any legally
existing sign structure. If detached, signs shall not exceed fifteen feet (15')
in height and if attached not more than twenty five feet (25') in height.
         b.   No such sign shall be a roof sign, except upon legally existing
sign structure, and no signs shall be erected in any required yard setback area
unless attached to a building.
   G.   Shopping Center Signs: In shopping centers, frontage for each separate
store shall be based on the width of the front of each business, and signs for
such businesses shall be attached to the front of each store. One detached or
attached sign for each street frontage may be used to designate the name of the
shopping center. In no instance may shopping center name signs be a multiple
copy to advertise any business in the center.
   H.   Time Limitation For Construction Project Or Land Development Signs: No
construction project or land development sign shall be erected more than thirty
(30) days prior to construction and shall be removed not more than thirty (30)
days after completion.
   I.   Billboards: No billboards greater than twelve (12) square feet shall be
permitted within the City limits. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
   J.   Electronic Message Signs: The electronic message sign area shall not
exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the total allowable sign area.
Electronic message signs shall not cause glare or contain rapid blinking
messaging, nor be intensely lit such that the sign may create a nuisance or
hazard to vehicular traffic, pedestrians, or adjacent properties. See title 4,
chapter 2, "Nuisances", of this Code. No electronic message sign shall be
installed in any way which will permit direct rays of light to penetrate onto
any adjoining property used for residential purposes, or in any manner
constituting a nuisance. (Ord. 2018-02, 1-4-2018, eff. 1-4-2018)
10-12-6: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following signs shall be exempt from zoning regulations:
   A.   Memorial tablets or tablets containing the names of buildings and date
of the erection and use of the building when built into the walls of the
building and constructed of bronze, brass, marble, stone or other
noncombustible material.
   B.   Nameplates not to exceed two (2) square feet. Any nameplates exceeding
two (2) square feet are prohibited in all zones.
   C.   Nonilluminated and nonfloodlighted flat signs, wall signs and
freestanding signs having an area not in excess of thirty six (36) square feet,
announcing the destruction or construction or remodeling of a building or
announcing the enterprise to be located in a building under construction or
announcing the name and address of the architect or contractor of the building,
or the owner thereof; provided, that no more than one such sign shall be
erected on each street frontage; and also provided, that said signs are not
erected more than thirty (30) days prior to construction and are removed not
more than thirty (30) days after completion.
   D.   Nonilluminated and nonfloodlighted religious, charitable and
educational ground signs having an area not in excess of twelve (12) square
feet.
   E.   Nonilluminated and nonfloodlighted signs having an area not in excess
of four (4) square feet, that advertise the place of business of a doctor,
dentist or other profession, or home occupation. Traffic and other Municipal
signs, house numbers, legal notices, railroad crossing signs and danger signs
and warning signs. Painting, repainting or cleaning of an advertising
structure, or the changing of the advertising copy of the message thereon shall
not be considered an erection or alteration which require a sign permit unless
a structural change is made thereto. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-12-7: DESIGN STANDARDS:
All design standards shall be in accordance with the latest adopted revision of
the Building Code. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-12-8: SPECIALTY SIGNS PROHIBITED:
The following specialty signs are prohibited in the City: wind sign, banner
sign, portable sign, A-frame sign and any other specialty signs. (Ord. 2013-08,
4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-12-9: AMORTIZATION PERIODS:
   A.   The effective adoption of this revised ordinance hereby prohibits
erection of any off premises sign in the City. Off premises signs for which
permits were previously issued and which are made nonconforming by the
provisions of the ordinance codified herein, shall be removed upon written
notice from the chief building official within five (5) years of the date of
that written notice.
   B.   Projecting business signs made nonconforming by the adoption of this
chapter shall be removed upon written notice from the chief building official
within ten (10) years of the date of that written notice. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-18-
2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-12-10: SIGN/ZONE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Residential, Agricultural Zones: In Residential Zones RE-20, RE-15, RE-
18.5, RE-30, RE-40, R-1-11, A-1, and A-2 the following signs are permitted:
(Ord. 2013-08, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2019-01, 1-3-2019, eff. 1-
4-2019; Ord. 2019-02, 1-3-2019, eff. 1-4-2019)
      1.   Nameplates: One nameplate for each dwelling unit, not exceeding two
(2) square feet in area, indicating the name of the occupant and/or a permitted
home occupation.
      2.   Identification And Information Signs: One sign, not exceeding eight
(8) square feet in area for conforming buildings or conforming uses other than
dwellings, boarding houses or lodging houses.
      3.   Development Signs: One or more signs not exceeding eight (8) square
feet in combined total area for each street frontage of the lot. In addition,
one or more signs of a temporary nature for each approved subdivision under
development and located on said subdivision property; providing, that not more
than one such sign be located at each major approach to the subdivision but not
closer than ten feet (10') to the street property lines. Signs on corner lots
shall comply with subsection 10-12-4N of this chapter. Said signs shall not
exceed in combined total area two hundred (200) square feet for any one
subdivision and no one sign shall exceed one hundred (100) square feet in area.
The period for display of such temporary signs shall be limited to one year;
provided, that at the expiration of this time the building inspector may grant
an appropriate extension of time for periods not to exceed one year, provided
not more than seventy five percent (75%) of the project has been developed.
Application for said extension shall be made at least thirty (30) days before
expiration of the original permit. In addition, one or more signs of a
temporary nature for main buildings or uses under development other than
dwellings provided such signs shall not exceed in combined total area one
hundred (100) square feet.
      4.   Public Necessity Signs: One or more public necessity signs; provided
that no sign shall exceed twenty four (24) square feet in area.
      5.   Business Signs: One or more signs not exceeding in total area two
(2) square feet for each one linear foot of frontage occupied by a
nonconforming commercial or industrial use, but in no case shall the total area
of all signs exceed one hundred (100) square feet. Uses not occupying the
frontage may each have one or more signs not exceeding forty (40) square feet.
      6.   Bulletin Board: One bulletin board not exceeding eighteen (18)
square feet in area for a church or other institution for the purpose of
displaying the name and character of services or activities conducted therein.
All such bulletin boards and identification signs shall be attached to a
parallel with the front wall of the building if any nameplate, bulletin board
or sign is illuminated, indirect lighting only shall be used, the source of
light shall not be visible from the street and no flashing or intermittent
illumination shall be employed.
      7.   Projecting Sign: No projecting signs are permitted.
      8.   Yard And Height Regulations:
         a.   Front Yard Regulations: Business and identification signs shall
be located flat against the building. Nameplates may be located anywhere on the
property.
         b.   Side Yard Regulations: Business and identification signs shall be
located anywhere on the property.
         c.   Rear Yard Regulations: Business and identification signs shall be
located flat against the building. Nameplates may be located anywhere on the
property.
         d.   Height Regulations: No sign shall be erected to a height greater
than ten feet (10') or project above the height of the building to which it is
attached.
   B.   Commercial Or Industrial Zones: In industrial zones and Commercial
Zones C-1, C-2, and C-3, the following signs are permitted:
      1.   Development Signs: One or more signs of a temporary nature for main
building or uses under development provided such signs shall not exceed in
combined total area one hundred (100) square feet.
      2.   Public Necessity Signs: One or more public necessity signs; provided
that no such sign shall exceed twenty four (24) square feet in area.
      3.   Business Signs: One or more business signs not exceeding three (3)
square feet in combined total area for each linear foot of occupied frontage
except that the maximum size of a business sign shall be three hundred (300)
square feet in area and the total area of all commercial or industrial use
shall be six hundred (600) square feet. However, a business sign, on or
attached to a building, flush or as roof sign, not more than eight feet (8')
above the building, may have a total area of six hundred (600) square feet.
Each commercial or industrial use backing onto a freeway shall be permitted not
more than one business sign.
      4.   Floodlight Signs: Floodlighted signs.
      5.   Illuminated Signs: Illuminated signs.
      6.   Animated Signs: Animated signs.
      7.   Roof Signs: Roof signs.
      8.   Height Regulations: No sign shall be erected to a height exceeding
fifty feet (50') above the ground.
   C.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Temporary signs, other than cloth signs, when ten feet (10') or more
above the ground may project not more than six inches (6") over public property
or beyond the building line.
      2.   Temporary signs may remain in place for a period not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
      3.   Temporary cloth signs may extend over public property. Such signs
when extending over a public street shall maintain a clearance of twenty feet
(20'). Cloth signs may extend across a public street only by permission of the
Governing Body and shall be subject to all related laws and ordinances.
      4.   All temporary signs will require approval of the chief building
official. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
CHAPTER 13
HOME OCCUPATIONS 1
SECTION:
10-13-1: Conditions
10-13-2: Present Uses
10-13-3: Licensing And Regulation
10-13-4: Public Nuisance
10-13-5: Abatement
10-13-6: Injunction
10-13-7: Criminal Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-10-9 of this title for limited residential occupations.
10-13-1: CONDITIONS:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or pursue a home occupation within the city
unless each of the following conditions is observed:
   A.   Only persons who are bona fide residents of the premises shall be
engaged in the occupation.
   B.   The home occupation shall not physically change the dwelling to the
extent that it would alter the residential character of the dwelling or the
residential atmosphere of the neighborhood by reason of color, design,
materials, construction, lighting, sounds, noises or vibrations. (Ord. 86-01,
1-9-1986)
   C.   The home occupation is conducted on the premises, and if conducted
within the dwelling unit, does not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the main
floor area of the dwelling unit to a maximum of three hundred (300) square
feet. (Ord. 2001-11, 11-1-2001, eff. 11-1-2001)
   D.   The home occupation shall not use any accessory buildings, yard or
space outside of the main dwelling not normally associated with residential
uses permitted within the zone wherein the dwelling is located.
   E.   Inventory and supplies for the home occupation shall not occupy more
than fifty percent (50%) of the permitted area described by subsection C of
this section.
   F.   There shall be no display (unless totally enclosed within the premises
and not visible from without the premises) or sale of goods, wares, commodities
or merchandise upon said premises other than those produced upon the premises.
   G.   The home occupation shall not generate vehicular traffic not commonly
associated with the zone in which it is located.
   H.   The addition of off street parking facilities on the premises beyond
that normally required for residential uses is prohibited. Parking of
automobiles generated by the home occupation shall be confined to existing
residential parking, except that one parking place may be allowed on a street
sixty feet (60') wide or wider, provided there is at least thirty five feet
(35') of unobstructed and unrestricted frontage on the street in front of the
dwelling used by the home occupation.
   I.   There shall be complete conformity with fire, building, plumbing,
electrical and health codes of the city and the state.
   J.   The home occupation shall not be associated with noise, dust, odors,
noxious fumes, glare or other hazards to safety and health which are emitted
and may be discernable beyond the premises.
   K.   The home occupation shall not create a hazard by using flammable,
explosive or other dangerous materials or by keeping or raising animals which
are capable of inflicting harm or discomfort or endangering the health and
safety of any person or property.
   L.   The home occupation shall not create a demand for municipal or utility
services or community facilities in excess of those usually and customarily
provided for residential uses. (Ord. 86-01, 1-9-1986; amd. 2003 Code)
10-13-2: PRESENT USES:
Occupations not conforming to the above conditions which are in existence at
the time the ordinance codified herein is adopted may be continued, except that
said nonconforming use shall be discontinued where said use is abandoned for a
continuous period of one year. Nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged or
expanded as to volume, intensity, size, area, nature, extent, time or effect
unless they conform to the above conditions. (Ord. 86-01, 1-9-1986)
10-13-3: LICENSING AND REGULATION:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from licensing, taxing or
otherwise regulating home occupations. (Ord. 86-01, 1-9-1986)
10-13-4: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any income producing activity conducted in a residential zone not meeting the
conditions of this chapter shall be unlawful. Upon discovering any violation of
the requirements, conditions or limitations of this chapter, the building
inspector shall notify the owner or occupant of said premises, in writing, of
the violations and demand abatement of said violation. If, after seven (7) days
of receipt of written notice thereof, the violation persists, said violation
shall be considered a public nuisance and shall be abated in the manner and
form hereinafter prescribed. (Ord. 86-01, 1-9-1986)
10-13-5: ABATEMENT:
The city attorney is empowered to institute an action in the name of the city
to abate a public nuisance in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 86-01,
1-9-1986)
10-13-6: INJUNCTION:
If the existence of a public nuisance is admitted or established, either on a
civil or criminal proceeding, judgment shall be entered forthwith which shall
permanently enjoin each defendant and any other person from further maintaining
the nuisance at the place complained of. Such injunction shall not be the only
or exclusive remedy hereunder; abatement of a public nuisance as provided
herein shall have no effect upon or preclude a criminal prosecution arising out
of a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 86-01, 1-9-1986)
10-13-7: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be a class C misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 86-01, 1-9-1986; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 14
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
10-14-1: Special Requirements For Communication Facilities
10-14-2: Commercial Zones (C)
10-14-3: Residential Zones (R) And Agricultural Zones (A-1 And A-2)
10-14-4: Business License Required
10-14-1: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
   A.   Application Fee: In addition to other fees, a special application fee
will be required by the city for those desiring to locate communication
facilities within the city. The fee will be based on the proposed location of
the facility:
   City owned property         $500.00
   Nonprofit/registered fraternal order property   500.00
   Private property         500.00
   B.   Interference Prohibited: No interference with existing antennas and
emergency or airport communications shall be allowed.
   C.   Fencing: Appropriate fencing shall be required to reduce the potential
for vandalism when deemed necessary by either party.
   D.   Removal Of Pegs: Removal of climbing pegs from the first thirty feet
(30') of any tower is required.
   E.   Air Safety Compliance: Compliance with all laws related to aircraft and
airport safety is required.
   F.   Licensing: FCC licenses and compliance is required.
   G.   Engineering Certification: Engineering certification for seismic, wind/
weather hazards electrical safety, and structural integrity is required. In
addition, an engineering certification concerning interference with other
communication services is required.
   H.   Signs: No signs shall be allowed on the antenna unless the antenna is a
"stealth" sign.
   I.   Landscaping: Landscaping of the compound area is required as per the
zone in which the antenna is located or as required by a condition of the
conditional use permit.
   J.   Time Limit: Once a site has been approved, the company/applicant shall
have six (6) months to begin construction and three (3) additional months to
complete the construction to allow for collocation sites to be available. (Ord.
2002-02, 2-15-2002, eff. retroactive to 1-17-2002)
10-14-2: COMMERCIAL ZONES (C):
Wireless telecommunication equipment may be allowed within the commercial zones
(C), with the following requirements: (Ord. 2002-02, 2-15-2002, eff.
retroactive to 1-17-2002; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-
2004)
   A.   Wall Mounted Antennas: Wall mounted antennas are permitted in the
commercial zones. Wall mounted antennas must comply with the following
criteria: (Ord. 2002-02, 2-15-2002, eff. retroactive to 1-17-2002; amd. Ord.
2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
      1.   Wall mounted antennas shall not extend above the roofline of the
building more than four feet (4').
      2.   Antennas and all associated equipment shall be painted to match the
color of the building or surrounding area.
      3.   Wall mounted antennas may have a maximum area of five percent (5%)
of the wall area of each side elevation of the building. Area of a penthouse
wall shall be included in the wall area of the building. The area of the
antenna is determined by drawing straight lines between the outermost portions
of the antenna until enclosed.
      4.   All equipment associated with the use must be screened by a view
obstructing structure and located a minimum of ten feet (10') from the edge of
the building wall.
      5.   If the associated equipment is located on the ground, it must be
landscaped to be compatible with the surrounding area and approved by staff.
      6.   Any appeals from a decision by the staff shall be to the planning
commission and must be in writing, filed within ten (10) days of the staff
decision. (Ord. 2002-02, 2-15-2002, eff. retroactive to 1-17-2002)
   B.   Roof Mounted Antennas: Roof mounted antennas are permitted in the
commercial zones. The following provisions and any applicable provisions in
subsection A of this section shall apply to roof mounted antennas: (Ord. 2002-
02, 2-15-2002, eff. retroactive to 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-2004, eff.
8-5-2004)
      1.   Pitched Roof Mounted Antennas:
         a.   The antenna will be mounted on the roof of a building such that
the roof will obstruct the view of the antenna from the front of the building
as seen from the front property line.
         b.   The antenna will be less visible from the ground level than the
typical antenna mounted on a flat roof.
         c.   Disagreements to staff decisions may be appealed to the planning
commission.
      2.   Flat Roof Mounted Antennas: Flat roof mounted antennas must be set
back from the building edge one foot (1') for every one foot (1') of antenna
height to a maximum of fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 2002-02, 2-15-2002, eff.
retroactive to 1-17-2002)
   C.   Monopole Towers: Monopole towers are allowed in commercial zones as a
conditional use. Towers must comply with all requirements set forth in this
title, as well as the applicable requirements of the telecommunications act of
1996, as amended, and any properly adopted regulations adopted thereunder.
(Ord. 2002-02, 2-15-2002, eff. retroactive to 1-17-2002; amd. Ord. 2004-12, 8-
5-2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
   D.   Collocation: Collocation on existing monopole towers is a permitted use
in any zone. However, if the compound area needs to be expanded to handle
additional equipment then the expansion must comply with all of the existing
conditions of approval. (Ord. 2002-02, 2-15-2002, eff. retroactive to 1-17-
2002)
10-14-3: RESIDENTIAL ZONES (R) AND AGRICULTURAL ZONES (A-1 AND A-2):
Wireless telecommunication equipment may be allowed within the residential
zones (R) and agricultural zones (A-1 and A-2), with the following
requirements:
   A.   Wall Mounted Antennas: Wall mounted antennas are conditional in
residential zones at institutional uses such as municipal buildings, hospitals,
churches, post offices, schools, etc. Wall mounted antennas must comply with
the following criteria:
      1.   Wall mounted antennas shall not extend above the roofline of the
building more than four feet (4').
      2.   Antennas and all associated equipment shall be painted to match the
color of the building or surrounding area.
      3.   Wall mounted antennas may have a maximum area of five percent (5%)
of the wall area of each side elevation of the building. Area of a penthouse
wall shall be included in the wall area of the building. The area of the
antenna is determined by drawing straight lines between the outermost portions
of the antenna until enclosed.
      4.   All equipment associated with the use must be screened by a view
obstructing structure.
      5.   If the associated equipment is located on the ground, it must be
landscaped to be compatible with the surrounding area and approved by staff.
   B.   Roof Mounted Antennas: Roof mounted antennas are conditional in
residential zones at institutional uses such as municipal buildings, hospitals,
post offices, schools, churches, etc. The following provisions and any
applicable provisions in subsection A of this section shall apply to roof
mounted antennas:
      1.   Pitched Roof Mounted Antennas:
         a.   The antenna will be mounted on the roof of a building such that
the building will obstruct the view of the antenna from the front of the
building as seen from the front property line.
         b.   The antenna will be less visible from the ground level than the
typical antenna mounted on a flat roof.
      2.   Flat Roof Mounted Antennas: Flat roof antennas must be set back from
the building edge one foot (1') for every one foot (1') of antenna height to a
maximum of fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Monopole Structures: Monopole towers may be allowed as conditional
uses. Any applicable criteria in subsections A and B of this section, as well
as the following criteria, shall apply to monopole structures:
      1.   Every company/applicant shall submit an overall master plan for
sites within the city. This plan shall display locations of existing and
future/proposed communication facilities and shall be sufficiently detailed for
consideration of collocation and siting on city, nonprofit or registered
fraternal order owned land.
      2.   All towers must be of a monopole construction. No lattice
constructed towers of any kind shall be allowed.
      3.   All towers must allow for collocation and each company/applicant
shall supply engineering calculations by a state certified engineer that will
allow for as many as three (3) separate users on a single pole. A letter must
also be supplied stating that the owners of the tower will allow for
collocation and that the structure has been constructed to allow for this.
      4.   No tower may be located within a one mile radius to another tower
unless it is located on city, nonprofit or registered fraternal order owned
property. However, if the company/applicant supplies supporting documentation
from and by an independent consultant stating that collocation on existing
towers or locating on a preferred city, nonprofit or registered fraternal order
owned property site will create an undue hardship, the one mile radius may be
waived by the city council after recommendation by the planning commission.
      5.   Collocation on an existing structure is a permitted use and is
handled administratively.
      6.   The agent must supply the city with a letter stating that if
technology renders the tower obsolete and the tower is vacated, the agent will
remove the tower, all other apparatus associated with it, the top three feet
(3') of the footing and restore the site to its original condition within
ninety (90) days of vacating the tower.
      7.   Antennas and all associated equipment shall be painted to be
harmonious with the surrounding area.
   D.   Additional Criteria: The additional following criteria may be addressed
for approval of electronic communication equipment in residential zones:
      1.   Whether collocation of the antenna on existing structures in the
same vicinity such as: towers, buildings, water towers, utility poles, athletic
field lights, parking lot lights, etc., is feasible without impacting
neighboring uses.
      2.   The location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation,
topography, buildings, residential uses and zones is acceptable.
      3.   Whether there are any negative impacts associated with the use that
must be mitigated through screening, height limits, or specifying construction
materials and colors, etc. (Ord. 2011-01, 1-6-2011, eff. 1-6-2011)
10-14-4: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
All approved locations shall obtain an annual business license from the city.
(Ord. 2002-02, 2-15-2002, eff. retroactive to 1-17-2002)
CHAPTER 15
TELEVISION SATELLITE ANTENNAS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Defined
10-15-2: Building Permit Required
10-15-3: Location
10-15-4: Number
10-15-5: Size
10-15-6: Height
10-15-7: Construction Standards
10-15-1: DEFINED:
"Television satellite antenna (or dish antenna)" is a combination of an antenna
or dish antenna whose purpose is to receive communication or other signals from
orbiting satellites; a low noise amplifier (LNA) which is situated at the focal
point of the receiving component and whose purpose is to magnify and transfer
signals; and coaxial cable whose purpose is to carry the signals into the
interior of a building. (Ord. 85-8, 11-14-1985)
10-15-2: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
A building permit shall be obtained before any television satellite antenna is
constructed on any lot in the city. The fee for the permit shall be set from
time to time by the city council by resolution or motion and minute entry. The
fee is initially set at fifteen dollars ($15.00). It shall be a class C
misdemeanor and upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to construct or locate any television satellite antenna on
any lot in violation of this section, or any other section of this chapter.
(Ord. 85-8, 11-14-1985; amd. 2003 Code)
10-15-3: LOCATION:
Any television satellite antenna shall be located as follows:
   A.   All television satellite antennas shall have setbacks of at least five
feet (5') from any property line. The setbacks shall be measured from the
property line to the nearest point on the antenna. For a rotating dish, the
measurement shall be from the nearest point of the antenna in its closest
rotation configuration to the property line.
   B.   In any residential zone, the antenna shall be located in the rear yard.
Upon proper application to the hearing officer and upon their finding that a
usable satellite signal cannot be obtained by locating the antenna in the rear
yard, the antenna may be permitted in the side yard or on the roof of a
building. The antenna shall not be located in the front yard or in the side
yard facing the street on a corner lot under any circumstances.
   C.   In any nonresidential zone, the antenna shall be located either in the
rear yard or in a side yard or on the roof of a building. Upon proper
application to the hearing officer and upon their finding that a usable
satellite signal cannot be obtained by locating the antenna in one of these
areas, the antenna may be permitted in the front yard or in the side yard
facing the street on a corner lot. (Ord. 85-8, 11-14-1985; amd. Ord. 2020-09,
5-21-2020)
10-15-4: NUMBER:
Not more than one television satellite antenna shall be allowed on any lot in
any zone. (Ord. 85-8, 11-14-1985)
10-15-5: SIZE:
No television satellite antenna shall exceed thirteen feet (13') in diameter in
any zone. No television satellite antenna which is placed upon a roof shall
exceed one meter in diameter. (Ord. 85-8, 11-14-1985)
10-15-6: HEIGHT:
When constructed or located on the ground, no television satellite antenna
shall exceed the height of sixteen feet (16'). When constructed or located on
the roof of a building, the overall height of the building and antenna shall
not exceed the maximum height restrictions applicable to the zone. (Ord. 85-8,
11-14-1985)
10-15-7: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   The antenna shall be securely mounted and anchored to the ground (or
roof) in accordance with the requirements of the manufacturer of the antenna
and the building code. (Ord. 85-8, 11-14-1985; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Every antenna must be properly grounded for protection against a direct
strike by lightning.
   C.   All electrical and antenna wiring (or cable) shall be placed
underground or otherwise obscured from view in a manner approved by the
building inspector.
   D.   The surface of the antenna (dish) shall be treated or painted so as not
to reflect glare from the sunlight. (Ord. 85-8, 11-14-1985)
CHAPTER 16
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES 1
SECTION:
10-16-1: Purpose
10-16-2: Definitions
10-16-3: Location Of Businesses; Restrictions
10-16-4: Effect On Nonconforming Businesses
10-16-5: Signs
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 6 of this code for licensing provisions.
10-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose and objective of this chapter is to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of sexually oriented
businesses or their location in areas deleterious to the interests of the city
and its residents, regulate the signage of such businesses, control the adverse
affects of such signage, and prevent inappropriate exposure of such businesses
to the community. This chapter is to be construed as a regulation of time,
place and manner of the operation of these businesses, consistent with the
United States and Utah constitutions. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive
to 4-4-2002)
10-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms involving sexually oriented businesses which are not defined in this
title shall have the meanings set forth in section
3-6-4 of this code. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
10-16-3: LOCATION OF BUSINESSES; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Outcall services shall be permitted in areas zoned C-1 (neighborhood
commercial zone), C-2 (general commercial zone) and C-3 (transitional
commercial and manufacturing zone).
   B.   Sexually oriented businesses, except outcall services, shall only be
permitted in areas zoned C-3 (transitional commercial and manufacturing zone)
under this title, subject to the following additional restrictions: (Ord. 02-
04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2004-12, 8-5-
2004, eff. 8-5-2004)
      1. No sexually oriented business shall be located:
         a. Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any school, public park,
library or religious institution.
         b. Within six hundred feet (600') of any residential use or any
agricultural or residential zoning boundary.
         c. Within six hundred feet (600') of any other sexually oriented
business, except outcall services.
         d. Within three hundred fifty feet (350') of any gateway corridor. The
distance shall be measured from the right of way boundary.
   C.   Distance requirements between structures and uses specified in this
section shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or zoning districts, from the property boundaries of the school,
public park, religious or cultural activity, residential use, or other sexually
oriented business, or from the right of way line of a gateway to the structure
of the sexually oriented business.
   D.   Distance requirements from zoning districts for this section shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or zoning
districts, from the closest zoning boundary of a residential or agricultural
district to the sexually oriented business structure. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002,
eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
10-16-4: EFFECT ON NONCONFORMING BUSINESSES:
All existing legal, nonconforming sexually oriented businesses, as of the
effective date hereof, or any amendment hereto, shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter within nine (9) months from the date the ordinance
codified herein is enacted. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002, eff. retroactive to 4-4-
2002)
10-16-5: SIGNS:
Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in this code, the more restrictive
requirements for signs shall prevail. Signs for sexually oriented businesses
shall be limited as follows:
   A.   No more than one exterior sign shall be allowed.
   B.   No sign shall be allowed to exceed eighteen (18) square feet.
   C.   No animation shall be permitted on or around any sign or on the
exterior walls or roof of such premises.
   D.   No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to or
inferring the nature of the business shall be allowed on any sign. Said signs
shall contain alphanumeric copy only.
   E.   Only flat wall signs and/or awning signs shall be permitted.
   F.   Painted wall advertising shall not be allowed.
   G.   Other than the signs specifically allowed by this chapter, the sexually
oriented business shall not attach, construct or allow to be attached or
constructed or utilized any temporary sign, banner, light or other device
designed to draw attention to the business location. (Ord. 02-04, 4-8-2002,
eff. retroactive to 4-4-2002)
CHAPTER 17
GROUP LIVING FACILITY
SECTION:
10-17-1: Purpose And Applicability
10-17-2: Terms
10-17-3: Permitted Uses
10-17-4: Residential Facility Development Standards
10-17-5: Reasonable Accommodation
10-17-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to:
      1.   Comply with Utah Code Annotated sections 17-27a-515 through 519.
      2.   Avoid discrimination in housing against any person regardless of age
or disability in compliance with the Utah fair housing act and the federal fair
housing act as interpreted by the courts having jurisdiction in Utah.
   B.   Applicability: This section shall be deemed to govern any facility,
residence, or other circumstance that meets the definition of a "residential
facility" as set forth in this title.
   C.   Limitations: Only such residential facilities as are specifically
authorized in this chapter and in this title as permitted or conditional uses
shall be allowed. All other residential facilities are prohibited. (Ord. 2009-
08, 9-3-2009, eff. 9-3-2009)
10-17-2: TERMS:
Certain words and phrases in this chapter are defined in section
10-2-1 of this title. (Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009, eff. 9-3-2009)
10-17-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses: A residential facility for persons with a disability or
a residential facility for elderly persons shall be a permitted use in any
zoning district where a single-family dwelling is allowed.
   B.   Termination: A use permitted by this chapter is nontransferable and
shall terminate if any of the following occur:
      1.   A facility is devoted to a use other than a residential facility for
elderly persons or a residential facility for persons with a disability;
      2.   The facility fails to comply with the requirements of the issued
permits, this chapter, or other Plain City ordinances; or
      3.   The license or certification issued by the department of human
services or department of health terminates or is revoked. (Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-
2009, eff. 9-3-2009)
10-17-4: RESIDENTIAL FACILITY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Each residential facility shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   Residential Facility Design Standards: Any newly constructed or
remodeled residential facility in a residential or agricultural zone or within
one thousand feet (1,000') of a residential or agricultural zone shall comply
with the following design standards:
      1.   The residential facility shall comply with: all building, safety,
and health regulations; the Americans with disabilities act; fire regulations;
and all applicable state code standards and licensing requirements.
Additionally, residential facilities shall comply with all standards set forth
by any other local, state, or federal agency for the operation of the
residential facility.
      2.   All setbacks shall be according to the requirements of the zone in
which the facility sits.
      3.   In order for new construction to reflect the design and character of
the existing neighborhood the following standards shall be met:
         a.   The roof design of the proposed or remodeled structure shall be a
pitched roof of the same slope as the most common roof slope of the homes
within the surrounding area of the proposed building; and
         b.   The type of exterior materials shall be of traditional home
finished materials of brick, siding, rock, stucco, etc. The use of these
materials shall be applied in such a manner as to blend in with the
neighborhood where the building is located and not draw undue attention to the
building because of the materials, their color, and/or their combination being
uncharacteristic of the other buildings in the neighborhood.
      4.   An existing structure may not be utilized as a residential facility
unless no structural or landscaping alterations that change the structure's
residential character are required for the residential facility to operate. Any
alterations to the structure, landscape, or site will require the approval of
the planning commission and must be completed in compliance with this section.
   B.   Parking Standards: The residential facility shall be required to
provide sufficient parking for the intended use as provided below:
      1.   Each facility shall be subject to minimum site development standards
applicable to the dwelling units in the zone in which the facility is located;
and
      2.   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be the same as
the number required for a dwelling with similar occupancy density in the same
zone.
   C.   Number Of Occupants: Pursuant to the definition of "family" in section
10-2-1 of this title, not more than four (4) unrelated persons shall occupy a
residential facility for elderly persons or any residential facility for
persons with a disability established in a dwelling unit unless a reasonable
accommodation is granted in conformance with section
10-17-5 of this chapter.
   D.   License And Certification: Prior to the issuance of a zoning clearance
by Plain City for the residential facility, the person or entity licensed or
certified by the department of human services or the department of health to
establish and operate the residential facility shall:
      1.   Provide a certified copy of the license issued or the filed
application for a license by the department of human services or the department
of health to the city offices.
      2.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for a
zoning clearance, that no person will be placed or remain in the facility whose
prior or current behavior, actions and/or criminal incidents or convictions,
have demonstrated that such person is or may be a substantial risk or direct
threat to the health or safety of other individuals, or whose said behavior,
actions and/or incidents or convictions have resulted in or may result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
      3.   Residential facility for persons with a disability:
         a.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a zoning clearance, that all current residents/clients qualify and that all
future residents/clients will qualify prior to admission to the facility as
persons with a disability as defined within the Americans with disabilities
act;
         b.   Obtain a city business license, if required under applicable
provisions of the Plain City ordinances.
      4.   Residential facility for elderly persons:
         a.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a zoning clearance, that all current residents/clients qualify and that all
future residents/clients will qualify prior to admission to the facility as
persons with a disability as defined within this title;
         b.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a zoning clearance, compliance with all relevant state code requirements. (Ord.
2009-08, 9-3-2009, eff. 9-3-2009)
10-17-5: REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION:
   A.   Reasonable Accommodation Required: None of the foregoing conditions
shall be interpreted to limit reasonable accommodations necessary to allow the
establishment or occupancy of a residential facility for person(s) with a
disability.
   B.   Application: Any person or entity who wishes to request a reasonable
accommodation shall make application to the city. Application shall be
accompanied by all appropriate fees and affidavits. The application shall
contain the following:
      1.   The name, mailing address, fax number, and phone number of the
applicant, including cellphone number if applicable;
      2.   The nature and extent of the disability;
      3.   An exact statement of the ordinance or policy from which the
applicant needs a reasonable accommodation;
      4.   The applicant's proposed reasonable accommodation(s);
      5.   A statement detailing why a reasonable accommodation is reasonable
and necessary in order to afford handicapped persons equal opportunity to use
and enjoy housing; and
      6.   The physical address of the property where the applicant intends on
living.
   C.   Decision: The planning commission shall render a decision on each
application for a reasonable accommodation within ninety (90) days. The
decision shall be based on evidence of record demonstrating all of the
following:
      1.   The requested accommodation will not undermine the legitimate
purposes of existing zoning regulations notwithstanding the benefit that the
accommodation would provide to a person with a disability.
      2.   That but for the accommodation, one or more persons with a
disability will be denied an equal opportunity to enjoy housing within the
city.
      3.   That equal results will be achieved as between the person with a
disability requesting the accommodation and a nondisabled person.
   D.   Appeal: Any person adversely affected by a final decision of the
planning commission may appeal that decision in compliance with title 2,
chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 2009-08, 9-3-2009, eff. 9-3-2009)
CHAPTER 18
SENSITIVE LAND USE
SECTION:
10-18-1: Purpose
10-18-2: General Provisions
10-18-3: Definitions
10-18-4: Actions Prohibited
10-18-5: Presumption
10-18-6: Procedure To Develop Real Property
10-18-7: Preliminary Determination By City Engineer
10-18-8: Requirement To Submit Letter Report Or Geologic Report
10-18-9: Letter Report; Contents
10-18-10: Geologic Report
10-18-11: Engineer/Geologist Qualifications And Certificate
10-18-12: Postconstruction Inspection And Certification
10-18-13: Appeal From Decision Of City Engineer
10-18-14: Scope Of Application
10-18-15: Restrictive Covenants Required
10-18-16: Civil And Criminal Fraud
10-18-17: River And Canal Development Standards
10-18-18: High Water Table, Wetland And Floodplain Area Development Standards
10-18-18.5: Plain City Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
10-18-19: Exceptions
10-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate development in sensitive areas in
order to preserve the city of Plain City's unique visual character, conserve
the public health, safety, and general welfare, and promote environmentally
sound design and planning. In order to ensure the preservation of the land in
flood areas, the regulations of this section are established to recognize that
development of land in flood areas involves special considerations and unique
situations which result from the topography of the land. These special
considerations and unique situations include, but are not limited to, increased
hazards to development from stormwater runoff and potential flood areas. In
addition, steeply sloped land presents design limitations to roadways, cuts and
fills, and buildings, and difficulties in providing public services.
   A.   With the enactment of this chapter, the city council of Plain City
intends to:
      1.   Protect life and property from all potentially hazardous conditions
particular to stormwater runoff, and potential flood areas;
      2.   Preserve and enhance the scenic and environmental resources of the
landscape by encouraging the maximum retention of prominent natural topographic
features, such as drainage swales, streams, slopes/bluffs, vistas, natural
plant formations, and trees;
      3.   Encourage innovative site and architectural design and planning in
order that the development adapts to the natural terrain and is harmonious with
the character of the area;
      4.   Minimize grading and cut and fill operations consistent with the
retention of the natural character of the land;
      5.   Minimize stormwater runoff and erosion problems incurred by the
development on and off the site;
      6.   Preserve, where possible, natural streams, ponds and associated
riparian vegetation;
      7.   Require the retention of trees and other vegetation which stabilizes
and retains moisture, prevents erosion, and enhances the natural scenic beauty
and to require additional landscaping where it is necessary;
      8.   Encourage the retention of trees and other vegetation throughout the
site instead of just in the periphery area of the development and to require
that graded areas be reasonably distributed throughout the project site;
      9.   Encourage minimal grading which relates to the natural contour of
the land;
      10.   Encourage road design which follows the natural topography wherever
possible in order to minimize cutting and grading;
      11.   Place the liability and expense of evaluating the condition of
potentially unstable land, and determining restrictions which should be placed
on its development, upon geologists or engineers employed by the landowner;
      12.   Implement the Plain City general plan and restrict the use of land
to those uses which do not present unreasonable risks to persons or property
because of geological and natural hazards and/or geotechnical limitations;
within high water table, floodplain and wetland areas.
      13.   Protect unsuspecting buyers of property within listed areas and
preventing fraud in land sales relating to the geologic or other condition of
real property;
      14.   Authorize a governmental function of regulation within the Utah
governmental immunity act; and
      15.   Require compliance with federal emergency management agency (FEMA)
floodplain management plan. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013; amd. Ord.
2023-07, 6-1-2023)
10-18-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
To ensure that a proposed development in sensitive land areas reflect the best
interests of the city, all grading or other improvement of any land, including,
but not limited to, land in approved subdivisions or other development plans,
shall conform to the development standards, guidelines, and criteria of this
chapter, the provisions of which are intended to minimize floods, erosion, and
other environmental hazards; to protect the areas not suitable for development,
and to ensure the efficient expenditure of public funds. The policies to be
achieved by this chapter shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Encourage only minimal grading which relates to the natural contour of
the land and which will round off, in a natural manner.
   B.   Require retention and protection of trees and other vegetation and
retain moisture, prevent erosion, enhance the natural scenic view, and where
necessary, require additional landscaping to enhance the scenic and safety
qualities of the canal or river.
   C.   Require immediate planting wherever appropriate to maintain necessary
cut and fill slopes, to stabilize them with plant roots, to conceal the raw
soil from view and to minimize erosion.
   D.   Preserve natural drainage channels as determined by the city.
   E.   Encourage retention of natural landmarks and prominent natural
features, wildlife habitat, and open space.
   F.   Preserve and enhance the visual and environmental quality through the
use of natural vegetation and prohibition of excessive excavation and
terracing.
   G.   Protect the public from natural hazards of stormwater runoff and
erosion by requiring drainage facilities.
   H.   Minimize the threat of fire damage by establishing fire protection
measures.
   I.   Establish land use management that will encourage protection of natural
elements while allowing a harmonious and satisfying residential environment.
   J.   Minimize public exposure to geological and natural hazards including,
but not limited to, debris flow, debris floods, surface and ground water
flooding, land sliding, surface fault rupturing and/or deformation along
primary and secondary fault traces and ground failure associated with soil
liquefaction, by identification, mitigation and/or avoidance of such hazards in
conjunction with development proposals.
   K.   Minimize potential property losses related to geotechnical limitations
including, but not limited to, expansive or collapsible soils, nonengineered
fills and shallow groundwater conditions, excavation and construction adjacent
to drainage irrigation, canals, and streams. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-
19-2013)
10-18-3: DEFINITIONS:
 ALLUVIAL   Fan shaped area deposited by slowed river; a fan shaped area of alluvium
FAN:         deposited by a river when reaching flatter land.
BUILDABLE    That portion of a lot or parcel which is eligible to place a building or
AREA:        structure and complies with the setbacks and other regulations of the zone
             where the property is located.
EXCAVATION:  The mechanical removal of earth material.
FEMA:        Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Federal agency under which the NFIP
             (National Flood Insurance Program) is administered.
FILL:        A deposit of earth material by artificial means.
             A relatively flat area or lowlands adjoining a river, stream watercourse,
FLOODPLAIN:  lake or other body of standing water that has been or may be covered by
             flood water.
FRENCH       A sump or trench filled with crushed rock or gravel intended to receive
DRAIN:       stormwater discharge.
GEOLOGIC     Report that shall include maps and a report, as required by section
REPORT:      10-18-10  of this chapter.
GEOTECHNICAL A civil engineer registered in the state of Utah with training and
ENGINEER:    experience in soil engineering.
GRADING:     Any excavating or filling or combination thereof.
GRADING      A topographic development plan prepared by a registered civil engineer
PLANS:       showing contours for before and after grading which do not exceed one foot
             (1') intervals.
HAZARDOUS    Floodplain area, sensitive land, and land with a high water table which if
CONDITIONS:  disturbed is likely to be detrimental to life or property.
LETTER       A simplified geologic report used in relation to areas of relatively stable
REPORT:      soil and rock as required by section
             10-18-9  of this chapter.
NATURAL      Nonmanmade land characteristics which include drainage swales, wetlands,
FEATURES:    streams, and concentrated native stands of large shrubs or trees.
NATURAL      Portion of any lot or parcel which cannot be subjected to grading, removal
STATE:       of vegetation or building development.
             Primary and secondary conservation areas and other land conserved or set
             aside from development such as, but not limited to, public or private parks,
OPEN SPACE:  trails, landscaped buffers, wetlands, meadows, forested areas, pastures,
             farm fields and other lands forming part of the ecologically connected
             matrix of natural areas significant due to wildlife habitat, water quality
             protection and other reasons.
             Listed as high water table, floodplain and wetland areas, are any land areas
             whose destruction or disturbance could immediately affect the life of the
SENSITIVE    community by either:
LANDS:       A.   Creating hazardous conditions such as flooding;
             B.   Destroying important public resources such as water supplies and the
             water quality of canals and rivers; or
             C.   Wasting important productive lands and renewable resources.
SITE:        Any lot or parcel of land.
             An inclined earth surface, the inclination of which is expressed as the
             ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance. In this chapter, slopes/
             bluffs are generally expressed as a percentage; percentage of slope refers
SLOPE/BLUFF: to a given rise in elevation over a given run in distance. A fifty percent
             (50%) slope, for example, refers to a one hundred foot (100') rise in
             elevation over a distance of two hundred feet (200'). A fifty percent (50%)
             slope is expressed in engineering terms as a two to one (2:1) slope.
SUBSURFACE   Any system of pipes, canals, ditches, moats, and the like that intercepts
DRAINAGE:    groundwater and carries it to a river or creek.
SURFACE      Water runoff caused as a result of precipitation or irrigation.
DRAINAGE:
             Lands that are generally inundated or saturated by surface or ground water
             at a frequency or duration to support, and that under normal circumstances
WETLANDS:    do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in
             saturated soil conditions. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013; amd.
             Ord. 2023-07, 6-1-2023)
 
10-18-4: ACTIONS PROHIBITED:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code it shall be unlawful to grade,
fill, or excavate any land in any manner which presents an unreasonable risk of
erosion, flooding, or any other unsafe condition, and it shall be unlawful to
erect any structure which will not be reasonably safe for use as a human
habitation because of:
   A.   A high water table (water close to the surface);
   B.   Surface water;
   C.   Expansive soils;
   D.   Collapsible soils;
   E.   Proximity to a secondary fault;
   F.   Proximity to an alluvial fan; or
   G.   Any other unsafe condition. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-18-5: PRESUMPTION:
Conditions described on geologic hazard maps and aerial topography maps
maintained by the city engineer, together with explanatory material appurtenant
thereto shall be presumed to exist. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-18-6: PROCEDURE TO DEVELOP REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to grade, fill, or excavate land or to erect any
structure without doing the following:
      1.   Obtaining the acknowledgment of the city that any letter report (a
letter report is described in section
10-18-9 of this chapter), or geologic report (a geologic report is described in
section
10-18-10 of this chapter), required by the city engineer pursuant to this
chapter, has been received and meets the requirements of section
10-18-8 of this chapter. (The giving of this acknowledgment by the city
engineer shall not be an approval of or acquiescence to the content or
conclusions of the letter report or geologic report. A letter report or
geologic report shall be considered part of the public record and may be copied
by any person.)
      2.   Except as provided in section
10-18-11 of this chapter, by grading, filling, or excavating land or erecting a
structure only as described in the letter report or geologic report which has
been acknowledged by the city engineer. (A proposal for which a letter report
or a geologic report is not required may be implemented as described in the
proposal.)
      3.   By executing and recording the restrictive covenant required by
section
10-18-15 of this chapter. (This subsection does not apply if no letter report
or geologic report is required.)
   B.   Obtain permission from the city engineer of acceptable erosion control
and revegetation plan.
   C.   In addition to the provisions of this chapter, all grading, filling, or
excavation of land or erection of any structure shall comply with all other
applicable provisions of these ordinances.
   D.   Those parts of any proposal to construct improvements such as roads,
sewer lines, or water lines, or other improvements which are intended to be
placed in public ownership shall be subject to the approval of the city
engineer.
   E.   Those parts of any proposal to develop real property which jeopardizes
the public's health, safety, or welfare or significantly interferes with
established long term development plans of Plain City shall be subject to the
approval of the city engineer after consultation with the appropriate city
department.
   F.   No building permits shall be issued until the requirements of this
chapter are met. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-18-7: PRELIMINARY DETERMINATION BY CITY ENGINEER:
All proposals to grade, fill, or excavate land or to erect a structure for
human habitation (sometimes referred to herein as the "proposal") shall be
referred to the city engineer who shall make a preliminary determination by
reference to the maps and materials maintained in the city engineer's office if
any of the unsafe physical conditions described in section
10-18-2 of this chapter appear to exist in relation to the real property which
is included in the proposal. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-18-8: REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT LETTER REPORT OR GEOLOGIC REPORT:
   A.   Except if the city engineer determines in the manner described in
subsection 10-18-6A3 of this chapter that no physical condition described in
section
10-18-2 of this chapter appears to exist in relation to the subject property,
the proposal with respect to which the subject property is associated may
proceed, as proposed, subject to the other requirements of these ordinances.
   B.   If the city engineer determines in the manner described in section
10-18-6 of this chapter any physical condition described in section
10-18-2 of this chapter appears to exist in relation to the subject property,
the developer shall submit a report prepared by geotechnical engineer.
   C.   With respect to any proposal not requiring a geologic report, the city
engineer may require the developer to submit a letter report to resolve issues
with respect to the condition of the subject property. A letter report may be
required even if the maps and materials maintained in the office of the city
engineer do not show any of the unsafe conditions described in section
10-18-2 of this chapter. The city engineer may withhold the determination
described in section
10-18-6 of this chapter until the letter report has been received, and based on
information in the letter report, the city engineer may, for good cause,
require the submission of a geologic report. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-
19-2013)
10-18-9: LETTER REPORT; CONTENTS:
   A.   A letter report is a simplified geologic report used in relation to
areas of relatively stable soil and rock. It shall contain not less than the
following:
      1.   An analytical geologic description of the subject property in
relation to the development which is proposed thereon, and in relation to
adjoining property;
      2.   A description of any requirements or restrictions which should be
imposed on the proposal to avoid violation of the provisions of section
10-18-2 of this chapter;
      3.   A geologic sketch map and/or a geologic structure section diagram,
if relationships are complex and difficult to describe in writing; and
      4.   The letter report shall include other information as the city
engineer shall reasonably require. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-18-10: GEOLOGIC REPORT:
   A.   A geologic report shall include current up to date maps and a report
containing not less than the following information:
      1.   The maps shall include: Sensitive land maps (high-water table,
floodplain and wetland areas if applicable) including slopes & drainage for
proposed sites):
         a.   The site location and regional setting of the subject property.
         b.   An overall site plan which illustrates exposure to geological and
natural hazards identified in section
10-18-2 of this chapter and the geotechnical limitations identified in section
10-18-2 of this chapter. The map shall illustrate the proposed site
modifications relative to geological and natural hazards and/or geotechnical
limitations that may impact the site. Any corrective site modification actions
necessary to mitigate or avoid hazards or limitations shall be clearly
identified on the map.
         c.   Maps shall use a convenient scale of not more than one inch (1")
equals one hundred feet (100') and a maximum contour interval of one foot (1').
Existing contours shall be shown by dashed lines and proposed contours shall be
shown as solid lines. Boring logs, cross sections, test trench logs, soil
sample descriptions, and test results shall be included.
         d.   The city engineer may require additional updated maps or
additional detail on existing sensitive land use maps as reasonably necessary
to evaluate actual or potential geologic hazards.
      2.   The report shall include:
         a.   A description of the proposed grading, filling, excavation, or
structure;
         b.   An analysis of the effects of the proposed grading, filling,
excavation, or erection of a structure in relation to the geologic conditions
shown in the geologic maps;
         c.   With regard to a structure, an analysis of the manner in which
the same, as constructed, will be made reasonably safe for human habitation;
         d.   Any corrective or remedial action necessary to avoid a violation
of section
10-18-2 of this chapter, shall be described and analyzed in detail;
         e.   A list, including title, author and date, of all prior studies or
reports which are relied upon to make this report; and
         f.   The city engineer may require additional information or analyses
which are reasonably necessary to evaluate actual or potential geologic
hazards. This includes submittal of reports to consultants or state agencies
for review and comment. The cost of any additional reviews required by the city
engineer shall be borne by the developer.
   B.   If the geologic report (maps and report) relates to land having a slope
that exceeds ten percent (10%), the development proposal described in the
geologic report shall conform to the provisions of section
10-18-17 of this chapter.
   C.   In the case of a proposal to grade, fill, or excavate, which is not
directly or indirectly related to a proposal to erect a structure for human
habitation, the city engineer may waive compliance with any requirement of this
section not relevant to the proposed grading, filling, or excavating. (Ord.
2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-07, 6-1-2023)
10-18-11: ENGINEER/GEOLOGIST QUALIFICATIONS AND CERTIFICATE:
   A.   A letter report (described in section
10-18-9 of this chapter) or a geologic report (described in section
10-18-10 of this chapter) shall be approved and signed by a geotechnical
engineer whose primary area of expertise is required to address issues related
to soil mechanics, foundation investigations, slope stability, etc. If
necessary, he or she shall also be capable of supervising other professionals
who may address other specific issues related to site conditions.
   B.   A letter report or a geologic report shall contain the following
certificate:
CERTIFICATE The signature and professional stamp attached to this report
certify that I am a geotechnical engineer as defined in section
10-18-11, of the Ordinances of Plain City. I have examined the letter report/
geologic report to which this certificate is attached and the information and
conclusions contained therein are, without any reasonable reservation not
stated therein, accurate and complete. All procedures and tests used in said
letter report/geologic report meet minimum applicable professional standards.
                                          
      SIGNATURE
   C.   In addition to any applicable private civil remedies, it shall be
unlawful to knowingly make a false, untrue, or incomplete statement in a letter
report or a geologic report or to sign the certificate described above knowing
the same to be materially false or not true.
   D.   It shall be the responsibility of the geotechnical engineer who stamps
and signs the letter report or geologic report to ensure that experienced and
qualified professionals perform the tasks required to complete each portion of
the report. His or her signature indicates the applicable report was prepared
under his or her direction and supervision. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-
19-2013)
10-18-12: POSTCONSTRUCTION INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION:
For any real property with respect to which development has proceeded on the
basis of a letter report or a geologic report which has been acknowledged by
the city engineer, no final inspection shall be completed or certificate of
occupancy issued or performance bond released until the engineer or geologist
who signed and approved that letter report or geologic report shall further
certify that the completed improvements and structures conform to the
descriptions and requirements contained in said letter or report. Provided,
however, that improvements and structures may, with the consent of the city
engineer, deviate from the descriptions and requirements contained in the
letter report or geologic report because of conditions which are discovered
after acknowledgment by the city engineer of the letter report or geologic
report. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-18-13: APPEAL FROM DECISION OF CITY ENGINEER:
Any person dissatisfied with a decision of the city engineer made under this
chapter, may appeal the same within ten (10) days thereof to the city council,
which city council is by this chapter authorized to hear appeals from decisions
of the city engineer, which city council shall affirm or reverse, either in
whole or in part. Any person dissatisfied with a decision of the city council
may appeal that decision within ten (10) days thereof to district court. (Ord.
2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-18-14: SCOPE OF APPLICATION:
No subdivision or other development plat or plan with a slope between ten (10)
and forty percent (40%) shall be approved without compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. Every proposal to grade, fill, or excavate land,
and every proposal to erect a structure for human habitation, garage or
accessory building shall be subject to this chapter, including proposals
related to land in subdivisions. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013)
10-18-15: RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS REQUIRED:
   A.   If a letter report or a geologic report has been submitted to the city
engineer and planning commission, no subdivision or other development plat or
plan shall be approved and no building permit shall be issued for construction
of a structure until the owner(s) of the subject real property have signed and
delivered to Plain City a restrictive covenant in a form suitable for recording
containing not less than the following:
      1.   A complete description of the geologic condition of the subject real
property, including references to relevant reports and studies;
      2.   A description of the grading, filling, or excavating or erection of
a structure for human habitation, garage or accessory building approved in the
letter report or geologic report which has been acknowledged by the city
engineer, together with the requirements and restrictions imposed thereon;
      3.   A covenant and agreement enforceable by Plain City, adjoining
landowners, and any subsequent owner of the subject real property that only the
grading, filling, or excavating or erection of a structure in the acknowledged
letter report or geologic report will be constructed or maintained without
further compliance with this chapter, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-07, 6-1-2023)
10-18-16: CIVIL AND CRIMINAL FRAUD:
It shall be unlawful for any person, including the seller or the seller's
representative, directly or indirectly in connection with the sale or offering
for sale of real property located in Plain City, to make any untrue statement
of a material fact related to the geologic condition of the subject property.
This section shall be construed to create private and public civil causes of
action in addition to creating criminal liability. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013,
eff. 4-19-2013)
10-18-17: RIVER AND CANAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Grading:
      1.   No grading, filling, or excavation of any kind shall be accomplished
adjacent to any canal or river without first obtaining approval from the city
engineer.
      2.   Any land or parcel, or portion of any parcel having a slope of
greater than ten percent (10%) shall not be graded to a slope that exceeds
forty percent (40%). Development or grading in areas having slopes below forty
percent (40%) shall be approved through a conditional use permit.
      3.   All preliminary street and site grading shall be completed prior to
the installation of utilities.
      4.   Fills in areas intended as structural foundations, including
roadways, shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) by ASTM D-
1557. All other fills shall be compacted to at least ninety percent (90%) by
ASTM D-1557. Test reports verifying compliance with this provision shall be
submitted to the city engineer by the developer, at the developer's expense.
      5.   Borrowing for fill shall be prohibited unless the material is
obtained from a cut permitted under an approved grading plan.
      6.   Cut slopes shall be constructed to eliminate sharp angles of
intersection with the existing terrain and shall be rounded and contoured as
necessary to blend with existing topography to the maximum extent possible. The
city will not accept the dedication and maintenance of cut and fill slopes
except those within the required street right of way. Where a cut or fill slope
occurs between two (2) lots, the slope shall normally be made a part of the
downhill lot.
      7.   Grading, cuts and fill to obtain access to developable property
above a ten percent (10%) slope shall be approved through a conditional use
permit by Plain City planning commission.
      8.   Sections of the international building code regulating excavation
and grading shall be complied with, except that decisions described therein to
be made by the "building official" may also be made by the city engineer.
   B.   Site Elements: Site elements shall include:
      1.   Retaining walls that blend with natural topography.
      2.   Planting near retaining walls.
      3.   Minimum lighting needed for pedestrian safety.
      4.   Large areas of formal landscaping are prohibited.
      5.   Grading should be minimized in areas where the slope is greater than
thirty percent (30%).
      6.   Drainage channels should receive a naturalizing treatment including
native rock and landscaping.
      7.   Use of natural building materials to blend in with the surroundings.
      8.   Smaller roof components so structure appears less intrusive.
      9.   The maximum height of buildings shall not exceed the height allowed
in the zoning/overlay district.
      10.   Canals, rivers and streams are required to be fenced or piped as
determined by planning commission and or city council for public health, safety
or welfare.
   C.   Drainage:
      1.   Required stormwater runoff collection facilities shall be designed
so as to retain stormwater runoff on development sites for a sufficient length
of time so as to prevent flooding and erosion during stormwater runoff flow
periods.
      2.   Required stormwater runoff collection facilities shall be so
designed as to divert surface water away from cut faces or sloping surfaces of
a fill. Subsurface drains are not acceptable.
      3.   Curb, gutter, and pavement designs shall be such that water on
roadways is prevented from flowing off the roadways.
      4.   Natural drainages shall be riprapped or otherwise stabilized to the
satisfaction of the city engineer below drainage and culvert discharge points
for a distance sufficient to convey the discharge without channel erosion.
      5.   Waste material from construction, including, soil and other solid
materials, shall not be deposited within a natural or manmade drainage course
or within irrigation channels.
      6.   Sediment retention facilities shall be constructed as part of each
development as directed by the city engineer.
   D.   Vegetation And Revegetation:
      1.   Every effort shall be made to conserve topsoil which is removed
during construction for later use on areas requiring vegetation or landscaping,
e.g., cut and fill slopes.
      2.   New planting shall be protected.
      3.   All disturbed soil surfaces shall be stabilized before final
acceptance of the development by the city.
      4.   The developer shall be fully responsible for any destruction of
native vegetation which is required to be retained in all areas under the
ownership and control of the developer. The developer shall carry the
responsibility for such areas both for the developer's own employees and for
all subcontractors from the first day of construction until final acceptance of
the development by the city. The developer shall be responsible for replacing
such destroyed vegetation.
      5.   Prior to the termination of the bonding period, any dead plant
materials required to be installed by the developer shall be replaced and a new
bond issued to assure establishment of the replaced materials.
   E.   Fire Protection:
      1.   Lot size and potential placement of buildings thereon shall be such
that adequate clearance of hazardous, flammable vegetative cover may be
accomplished.
      2.   All easements for firebreaks for safety of built up areas shall
encompass access for firefighting personnel and equipment and such easements
shall be dedicated for this specific purpose by being recorded.
      3.   The inability to provide fire line water pressure consistent with
the standards set by the Utah state division of drinking water, the
international fire code and the Plain City fire marshal shall be justification
for denial of a development request.
   F.   Streets:
      1.   All streets within a hillside area shall be designed to meet the
standards required for streets in all other areas of the city except that
sidewalks of not less than six feet (6') in width may be required on one side
of streets within a hillside area. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013;
amd. Ord. 2023-07, 6-1-2023)
10-18-18: HIGH WATER TABLE, WETLAND AND FLOODPLAIN AREA DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Development in high water table, floodplain or wetland areas shall be
subject to the following standards:
      1.   Floodplain, wetland areas and natural drainages shall not be
included as part of any buildable development unless allowed to be mitigated
pursuant to applicable law. Lots within the residential or agricultural zones
may include wetlands and flood zones as part of the lot provided there is
sufficient buildable area no less than 4 acres to accommodate the proposed use.
      2.   Wetlands and flood plain areas may not be included in area
requirements for lots or for calculation of density.
      3.   Where determined by the planning commission or designee, wetland and
floodplain areas may be required to be fenced if found to be detrimental to
public health, safety or welfare.
      4.   Prior to the acceptance by the city of a petition for rezoning of
property in the designated area, or before the submission of an application for
preliminary development plan in the designated area, it must be demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the city engineer, public works director and planning
commission that the conditions and requirements contained herein can be met.
Such petition, submission, or application shall be made through the city. A
predevelopment conference with the planning commission and developer shall be
required to review any proposed plans.
      5.   Prior to acceptance by the city of an application for preliminary
development plan in the specified areas, it must be demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the city, (IBC) International Building Code: Section 1612,
including appendix G - Relates to construction in flood hazard areas, and the
Plain City Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance (section
10-18-18.5), that all conditions specified in the listed chapters have been
fully met and accomplished.
      6.   Surface or subsurface drainage from any development within the
subject area shall be transported to either a canal, creek or river and shall
not be deposited, collected, or stored upon the property being developed or
upon other properties within the subject area.
      7.   Drainage water from the proposed new development will not be placed
upon or pass through other properties, except:
         a.   Where a preexisting drainage system of adequate capacity is
legally available for use; or
         b.   Where a permanent drainage easement of a size sufficient to carry
projected flows has been obtained and a statement from the owners of both the
host and guest properties recorded on property deeds in the office of the
county recorder specifying the following:
         (1)   That the city will be held harmless from all damages or injury
resulting from water pollution and flooding from drainage crossing said
property.
         (2)   That the property owner will allow the owner of the easement to
enter onto said property to maintain the drainage facility on said easement.
         (3)   That the drainage channel can be placed in a pipe or culvert at
such time as deemed appropriate by the owner of the easement.
      8.   Drainage from the proposed new development will not be placed in an
irrigation ditch or irrigation canal, originally constructed for irrigation
purposes, except where permission, in written and recorded instruments (i.e.,
easements) running with the land, has been granted by the subject irrigation
company and/or all water users below the proposed development on the specific
ditch or canal specifying the following:
         a.   That the city will be held harmless from all damage or injury
resulting from flooding, water pollution, or high groundwater from drainage in
the ditch or canal.
         b.   That the irrigation ditch or canal can be placed in a pipe or
culvert at a time deemed necessary by the owner of the easement.
         (1)   That the owner(s) of property which is the subject of a
development plan may be required to provide, and record with the county
recorder, a statement holding the city harmless from all damage within the
project resulting from flooding or high water table.
         (2)   That a disclosure statement may be required to be placed upon
all subdivision and development plats in the subject area, stating that the
subdivision or development lots are in an area potentially subject to flooding
from high water table.
         (3)   That drainage easements be granted to the city within the
proposed development, as determined by the city engineer, and drainage
facilities be installed as part of the development at developer's expense.
      9.   No building or structures shall be allowed to be constructed in a
high-water table or floodplain areas of the city where the building proposed to
be built includes a basement. A basement shall be considered as any usable
floor area below either the elevation of the fronting curb and gutter, or if
there is no curb and gutter planned to be constructed, usable floor area below
the existing ground surface, buildings and structures, including substantial
improvements of such buildings and structures, shall be elevated such that the
lowest floor, including basement is elevated above the design flood elevation
in accordance with section 1612 of the (IBC) International Building Code
Appendix-G (Flood-resistant construction). The following conditions must be
met:
         a.   Prior to the issuance of the building permit, the owner(s) shall
produce a statement which shall be recorded in the office of the county
recorder and attached to the property stating that the city will be held
harmless from all damages or injury resulting from flooding from groundwater in
an identified high-water table or floodplain area.
         b.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit for a structure/
residence with a basement within a new development, the developer shall submit
to the city engineer for approval, a design that has been signed and stamped by
a registered professional engineer indicating his or her method to minimize
flooding from groundwater. Each lot owner may also still be required to produce
a statement which shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder and
attached to the property stating that the city will be held harmless from all
damages or injury resulting from flooding from building within a flood plain
area, high-water table, groundwater or existing water ways.
      10.   A comprehensive drainage and grading plan shall be submitted by the
developer of any property within a high-water table, floodplain or wetland area
and shall be approved by the city engineer, public works director and planning
commission before preliminary development approval or approval for any
residential, commercial or industrial development or building on a single lot
or lots. In the case of subdivisions, such plan shall be submitted via the city
engineer; or in the case of building development on a single lot or lots, the
plan shall be submitted via the building inspector. Such plan shall be subject
to the following requirements:
         a.   Sump Pumps are required to be installed on all lots and shall not
be discharged into the sanitary sewer system; but shall require outfall into a
storm drain or private ditch system, if permitted by the owners thereof.
Approval of, and signatures by; all irrigation and canal companies if their
ditches or canals cross the development areas, or if surface or subsurface
drainage is to outfall into the ditch or canal or if modification to ditch or
canal is proposed. Property owners should be aware that few ditch companies
allow discharge into their systems.
         b.   Quantities of runoff shall be determined for the complete
development area by the rational method or other method as approved by the city
engineer.
         c.   At all outfall points from the development, quantities of runoff
shall comply as approved by the city engineer.
         d.   The capacity of any irrigation ditch, storm drain, or other
channel shall be determined from the inlet point to the outfall point of said
channel if it is to be used for runoff. If there is an insufficient capacity to
handle added flows, it will not be used.
         e.   A topographic map with updated wetland and floodplain areas, if
applicable shall be prepared to indicate sufficient slopes in all areas to take
surface drainage and overflow waters into the designated street or storm drain.
Water will not be allowed to pond any place other than a designated detention
or retention basin.
         f.   Subdivisions not located within three hundred feet (300') times
the number of lots in the subdivision of an existing Plain City sewer line are
exempt provided that the lots are forty thousand (40,000) square feet minimum
and the developer/owner installs a septic system in accordance with Plain City,
the state of Utah and Weber County regulations for septic systems. Subdivisions
or lots that are located within sensitive lands may be prohibited by planning
commission or city council to install septic systems.
         g.   No building permit shall be issued in any development in the
described areas until the required subsurface and storm drainage system has
been constructed and is in operable condition unless a hold harmless agreement
is entered into by the developer. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-19-2013;
amd. Ord. 2023-07, 6-1-2023; Ord. 2023-19, 12-7-2023)
10-18-18.5: PLAIN CITY FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE:
   A.   Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Methods:
      1.   Statutory Authorization:
         a.   The Legislature of the State of Utah Code. Ann. § 10-3-701 has in
delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City Council of Plain City,
Utah, does ordain as follows:
         b.   The city of Plain City elects to comply with the requirements of
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The
National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is a voluntary program administered by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA The National Flood Insurance
Program, established in the aforesaid act, provides that areas of the town
having a special flood hazard be identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and that floodplain management measures be applied in such flood hazard
areas. The National Flood Insurance Program was broadened and modified with the
passage of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 and other legislative
measures. It was further modified by the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of
1994. The National Flood Insurance Program is administered by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, a component of the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security.
      2.   Findings Of Fact:
         a.   The flood hazard areas of Plain City are subject to periodic
inundation by flood waters, which results in potential loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and
relief; all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
         b.   These potential flood losses are caused by:
            (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains that are
known to cause increases in flood heights and velocities;
            (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by structures vulnerable
to floods because they are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages; and
            (3)   Uses deemed unsuitable for floodplain areas or that do not
account for the increased flood risk.
      3.   Statement Of Purpose:
         a.   It is the purpose of this section to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of the community and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
            (1)   Protect human life and health;
            (2)   Minimize damage to public infrastructure, including but not
limited to utilities, streets, and bridges that are susceptible to flooding;
            (3)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions caused by flooding;
            (4)   Minimize public expenditures on flood control projects;
            (5)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated
with flooding and are generally undertaken at the expense of the public;
            (6)   Protect and safeguard the welfare and safety of first
responders should an emergency response is needed;
            (7)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound
use and development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future
flood blight areas; and
            (8)   Promote that potential buyers are notified if properties are
in a flood area.
      4.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses:
         a.   To accomplish the purposes outlined in the statement of purpose
above, this section applies the following methods:
            (1)   Restricts or prohibits land uses that are dangerous to
health, safety, or property in times of flooding, or cause excessive increases
in flood heights or velocities;
            (2)   Requires that land uses vulnerable to floods, including
facilities that serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time
of initial construction;
            (3)   Controls the alteration of natural floodplains, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which are involved in the
accommodation of flood waters;
            (4)   Controls filling, grading, dredging and other developments
that may increase flood damage; and
            (5)   Prevents or regulates the construction of flood barriers that
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   B.   Definitions: Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this section shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give this section its most reasonable application.
                A flood having a recurrence interval that has a one percent (1%) chance of being
                equaled or exceeded during any given year (one-percent-annual-chance flood). The
100-YEAR FLOOD: terms "one-hundred-year flood" and "one-percent-annual-chance flood" are
                synonymous. The term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once
                every one hundred years. Mandatory flood insurance requirements may apply.
                A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
500-YEAR FLOOD: exceeded during any given year (0.2%-annual-chance flood). The term does not imply
                that the flood will necessarily happen once every five hundred years and mandatory
                flood insurance requirement generally does not apply.
                A structure that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure. Its
                use is incidental to the use of the principal structure; the ownership of the
ACCESSORY       accessory structure is the same owner as of the principal structure. An accessory
STRUCTURE:      structure is a non-residential structure of low value that is used solely for the
                parking of vehicles and storage of tools, materials, or equipment. No human
                habitation is allowed within an accessory structure.
                Is any improvement that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the square
ADDITION:       footage of an existing structure. This includes lateral additions added to the
                side, front, or rear of a structure; vertical additions added on top of a
                structure; and enclosures added underneath a structure.
                Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar landform that
ALLUVIAL FAN    originates at the apex. It is characterized by high-velocity flows; active
FLOODING:       processes of erosion, sediment transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow
                paths.
APPURTENANT     See Accessory Structure.
STRUCTURE:
AREA OF FUTURE- The land area that would be inundated by the one- percent-annual-chance (one-
CONDITIONS      hundred-year) flood, based on future-conditions hydrology.
FLOOD HAZARD:
                A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate
AREA OF SHALLOW Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to an
FLOODING:       average depth of one to three feet (1'- 3') where a clearly defined channel does
                not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow
                may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
                Is the land within a community that is most likely to be subject to severe flood-
AREA OF SPECIAL related erosion losses. The area may be designated as Zone E on the Flood Hazard
FLOOD-RELATED   Boundary Map (FHBM). After the detailed evaluation of the special flood-related
EROSION HAZARD: erosion hazard area, in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be
                further refined.
                The land in the flood plain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
                greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as Zone A
AREA OF SPECIAL on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for
FLOOD HAZARD    publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30,
                AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes
                of these regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in
                meaning with the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
BASE FLOOD:     The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
                given year.
                The water surface elevation of the one-percent- annual-chance flood event. It is
                the height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the waters of
BASE FLOOD      the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine
ELEVATION       areas. It is also the elevation shown on the FIRM and found in the accompanying
(BFE):          Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that
                indicates the water surface elevation resulting from the flood that has a one-
                percent (1%) chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.
                Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
BASEMENT:       sides. A walkout basement that does not require a step up to grade is not
                considered a basement.
                Existing flood hazard information adopted by a community and reflected on an
BEST AVAILABLE  effective FIRM, FBFM, and/or within an FIS report; or draft or preliminary flood
DATA:           hazard information supplied by FEMA or from another source. Other sources may
                include, but are not limited to, the state, other federal agencies, or local
                studies, the more restrictive of which would be reasonably used by the community.
                A wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended
                through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading
                forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or
BREAKAWAY WALL: supporting foundation system. Any walls below the lowest floor in a building in a
                V or VE Zone should give way under wind and water loads without causing collapse,
                displacement,or other damage to the elevated portion of the building of the
                supporting pilings or columns. Breakaway walls apply only to V or VE Zones.
BUILDING:       See Structure.
CHANNELIZATION  The artificial creation, enlargement, realignment, or alteration of a stream
:               channel's slope, shape, or alignment. Streambank restoration may be deemed as
                channelization.
CODE OF FEDERAL The codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal
REGULATIONS     Register by the executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government.
(CFR):
CONDITIONAL     FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would, upon construction, affect the
LETTER OF MAP   hydrologic and/or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result
REVISION        in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, and/
(CLOMR):        or the SFHA. The letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the
                project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.
CONDITIONAL
LETTER OF MAP   FEMA's comment on a proposed structure or property. The letter does not revise an
REVISION BASED  effective map; it indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be
ON FILL (CLOMR- removed from the floodplain.
F):
                An under-floor space that has its interior floor area (finished or not) no more
CRAWLSPACE:     than four feet (4') from the bottom floor joist the next higher floor elevation,
                designed with proper openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures of flood water,
                and is not used for habitation.
                A facility or building where even a slight chance of flooding is too great a
CRITICAL        threat. Typical critical facilities include hospitals, fire stations, police
FACILITY:       stations, schools, storage of critical records, assisted living and similar
                facilities.
                Refers to a clause in a deed that limits the future use of the property in some
DEED            respect. Deed restrictions may impose a vast variety of limitations and
RESTRICTION:    conditions. For example, they may limit the density of buildings, dictate the
                types of structures that can be erected, or prevent buildings from being used for
                specific purposes or from being used at all.
                A building that is used solely for storage of materials or vehicle parking for up
DETACHED        to four housing occupants. If a detached garage is designed or used for habitation
GARAGE:         or conducting business, or has multiple stories, then the building is not
                considered a detached garage under the NFIP.
                Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
DEVELOPMENT:    limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
                paving, demolition, excavation or drilling operations, or storage either temporary
                or permanent of equipment or materials.
                A non-basement building built, in the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A,
                A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor above the
                ground level by means of pilings, columns (post and piers), or shear walls
ELEVATED        parallel to the flow of the water and adequately anchored so as not to impair the
BUILDING:       structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the
                base flood. In the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C,
                X and D, an "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill
                or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the
                unimpeded movement of flood waters.
                Refers to an enclosed walled-in area below the lowest floor of an elevated
ENCLOSURE:      building. Enclosures below the BFE may only be used for building access, vehicle
                parking, and storage.
EROSION:        The process of the gradual wearing away of land masses by wind, water, or other
                natural agents.
EXISTING        Refers to structures for which the "start of construction" commenced before the
CONSTRUCTION:   effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before
                that date. It may also be referred to as Existing Structures.
                A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
EXISTING        for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
MANUFACTURED    (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
HOME PARK OR    streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
SUBDIVISION:    completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
                adopted by a community.
EXISTING        See Existing Construction.
STRUCTURES:
EXPANSION TO AN The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
EXISTING        servicing the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including
MANUFACTURED    the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
HOME PARK OR    grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
FEMA:           The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
                Refers to the placement of materials, such as dirt, sand, or rock to elevate a
                structure, property, or portion of a property above the natural elevation of the
                site, regardless of where the material was obtained from. The common practice of
FILL:           removing unsuitable material and replacing with engineered material is not
                considered fill if the elevations are returned to the existing conditions. Any
                fill placed or used prior to the area being mapped as a flood hazard area is not
                deemed as fill.
                1.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
                normally dry land areas from:
                   a.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
                   b.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
                source.
                2.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) that are proximately caused by flooding as defined
                in this section and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces
FLOOD OR        of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and
FLOODING:       deposited along the path of the current.
                3.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
                water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
                exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high
                water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
                unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or
                by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as
                defined in this section.
FLOOD INSURANCE An official map of a community, on which the Administrator has delineated both the
RATE MAP        SFHAs and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
(FIRM):
FLOOD INSURANCE An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if
STUDY (FIS) OR  appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation
FLOOD ELEVATION and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion
STUDY:          hazards.
FLOOD OPENING:  Refers to an opening in the wall of an enclosed structure that allows floodwaters
                to automatically enter and exit the enclosure. Refer to FEMA Technical Bulletin 1.
                Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized,
                appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify
                flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to
                an SFHA and to reduce the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically
FLOOD           includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These
PROTECTION      specialized, flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
SYSTEM:         engineering standards. FEMA only accredits levees, both private and public, that
                have been certified by a professional engineer or firm in which the certification
                shows that the levee has met and continue to meet the minimum regulatory standards
                cited in Title 44, Chapter 1, Section 65.10 of the Code of Federal Regulations (44
                CFR 65.10).
FLOODPLAIN      Is a community issued permit or document that is used for any development that
DEVELOPMENT     occurs within an SFHA identified by FEMA or the community. It is used to address
PERMIT:         the proposed development to ensure compliance with the community's ordinance.
FLOODPLAIN OR   Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source whether or
FLOOD-PRONE     not identified by FEMA (see definition of Flooding).
AREA:
FLOODPLAIN      The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:     reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
                flood control works, mitigation plans, and floodplain management regulations.
                Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN      special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and
MANAGEMENT      erosion control ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term
REGULATIONS:    describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which
                provide standards for flood damage prevention and reduction.
                Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
                adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or
                improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
FLOODPROOFING:  contents. Floodproofing can either be accomplished in the form of dry
                floodproofing in which the structure is watertight below the levels that need
                flood protection, or wet floodproofing in permanent or contingent measures applied
                to a structure that prevent or provide resistance to damage from flooding, while
                allowing floodwaters to enter the structure or area.
FLOODWAY:       See Regulatory Floodway.
FLOODWAY        The lines marking the limits of floodways on federal, state, and local flood plain
ENCROACHMENT    maps.
LINES:
                A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of
                flood plain management. "Freeboard" tends to compensate for the many unknown
FREEBOARD:      factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated
                for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge
                openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed.
                A development that cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or
FUNCTIONALLY    carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes docking facilities,
DEPENDENT USE:  port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
                passengers, and ship building and repair facilities. It does not include long-term
                storage or related manufacturing facilities.
HIGHEST         The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to
ADJACENT GRADE  the proposed walls of a structure. In AO Zones, the highest adjacent grade is
(HAG):          utilized by comparing the lowest floor elevation to that of the highest adjacent
                grade and the depth of the AO Zone.
                Any structure that is:
                1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
                maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
                Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on
                the National Register;
                2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
                contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a
                district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC        historic district;
STRUCTURE:      3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
                historic reservation programs that have been approved by the Secretary of the
                Interior; or
                4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities
                with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
                   a.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
                Interior, or
                   b.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
                programs.
LETTER OF MAP   An official amendment, by letter, to an effective FIRM. A LOMA establishes a
AMENDMENT       property's location in relation to the SFHA. It is usually issued because a
(LOMA):         property or structure has been inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain,
                when the property or structure is actually on natural high ground above the BFE.
                FEMA's modification or revision to an entire or portion of the effective FIRM, or
LETTER OF MAP   Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both. LOMRs are generally based on the
REVISION        implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic
(LOMR):         characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the
                existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, or the SFHA.
LETTER OF MAP
REVISION BASED  FEMA's amendment, by letter, to an effective FIRM where fill was brought in or
ON FILL (LOMR-  used to elevate a property, portion of property or structure above the BFE.
F):
                A man-made structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in
LEVEE:          accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the
                flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
                A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
LEVEE SYSTEM:   structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and
                operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
                The lowest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to
LOWEST ADJACENT the proposed walls of a structure. For an existing structure, it means the lowest
GRADE (LAG):    point where the structure and ground touch, including but not limited to attached
                garages, decks, stairs, and basement windows.
                The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
                or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
LOWEST FLOOR:   access or storage in an area other  than a basement area is not considered a
                building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to
                render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
                requirements of Section 60.3.
                A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent
MANUFACTURED    chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when
HOME:           attached to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not include
                a "recreational vehicle"; however, a manufactured home may be used for both
                residential and non-residential use.
MANUFACTURED    A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured
HOME PARK OR    home lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
MAP:            The FHBM or the FIRM for a community issued by FEMA.
                For purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929,
MEAN SEA LEVEL: North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which BFEs shown
                on a community's FIRM are referenced.
MIXED USE       Structures with both a business and a residential component, but where the area
STRUCTURES:     used for business is less than fifty percent (50%) of the total floor area of the
                structure.
                Structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective
                date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
NEW             subsequent improvements to such structures. For the purposes of determining
CONSTRUCTION:   insurance rates, structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or
                after the effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever
                is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
                A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
NEW             for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
MANUFACTURED    (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
HOME PARK OR    streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
SUBDIVISION:    completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations
                adopted by a community.
                Formal certifications signed and stamped by a professional engineer licensed to
NO-RISE         practice in the state, demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
CERTIFICATIONS: performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that a proposed
                development will not result in any increase (0.00 feet) in flood levels within the
                community during the occurrence of a base flood event.
PHYSICAL MAP    FEMA's action whereby one or more map panels are physically revised and
REVISION (PMR): republished.
                A vehicle which is:
                1.   Built on a single chassis;
                2.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
RECREATIONAL    horizontal projection;
VEHICLE:        3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
                and
                4.   Designed primarily, not for use as a permanent dwelling but, as temporary
                living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY      The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
FLOODWAY:       be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
                the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
RIVERINE:       Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream,
                brook, creek, etc., which can be intermittent or perennial.
                Refers to the section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended,
                which provides for the denial of flood insurance coverage for any property that
SECTION 1316:   the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly constituted State or local
                authority to be in violation of State or local floodplain management regulations.
                Section 1316 is issued for a property, not a property owner, and remains with the
                property even after a change of ownership.
SPECIAL FLOOD   See Area of Special Flood Hazard.
HAZARD AREA:
                For other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal
                Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes substantial improvement, and
                means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
                construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
                improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either
                the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as
                the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
START OF        columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
CONSTRUCTION:   manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
                preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
                installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
                basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor
                does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
                garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
                For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
                alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
                whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
                For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, culvert, bridge,
                dam, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as
                a manufactured home. Structure, for insurance purposes, means: (1) a building with
                two (2) or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof, which is affixed to
                a permanent site; (2) a manufactured home ("a manufactured home," also known as a
STRUCTURE:      mobile home, is a structure: built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site
                in one or more sections, and affixed to a permanent foundation); or (3) a travel
                trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a permanent foundation,
                that is regulated under the community's floodplain management and building
                ordinances or laws. For insurance purposes, "structure" does not mean a
                recreational vehicle or a park trailer or other similar vehicle, except as
                described in paragraph (3) of this definition, or a gas or liquid storage tank.
SUBSTANTIAL     Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
DAMAGE:         structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%)
                of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
                Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure,
                the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
                structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement. This term
                includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the
SUBSTANTIAL     actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include:
IMPROVEMENT:    1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
                state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications that have been
                identified by the local code enforcement official and are the minimum necessary to
                assure safe living conditions; or
                2.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", if the alteration will not preclude
                the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure."
VARIANCE:       A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain management
                regulation.
                The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
                community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development
VIOLATION:      without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of
                compliance required in Sections 44 CFR 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)
                (2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
                documentation is provided.
                The height, in relation to the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, (or
WATER SURFACE   other datum, where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies,
ELEVATION:      such as the one-percent-annual-chance flood event, in the flood plains of coastal
                or riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE:    The channel and banks of an identifiable water in a creek, brook, stream, river,
                ditch or other similar feature.
 
   C.   General Provisions:
      1.   Lands To Which This Section Applies: This section shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA or, if elected in areas of
identified and documented flood risk supported using Best Available Data within
the jurisdiction of Plain City.
      2.   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas
of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM and FBFM) or
Digital Flood Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, are
adopted by reference and declared a part of this section, and any revisions
thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
section.
      3.   Establishing Of Development Permit: Floodplain Development Permit
shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this section.
      4.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This section is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this section and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
      5.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this
section, all provisions shall be:
         a.   Considered as minimum requirements;
         b.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
         c.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
         6.   Warning And Disclaimer Or Liability: The degree of flood
protection required by this section is considered reasonable for regulatory
purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare
occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased
by human-made or natural causes.
      This section does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood
hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damage. This section shall not create liability on the part of the community or
any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this section, or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
      7.   Severability: If any section, provision, or portion of this section
is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court, the remainder of this
section shall not be affected.
      8.   Compliance: No structures or developments including buildings,
recreation vehicles, or manufactured homes or land shall hereafter be located,
altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this
section and other applicable regulations. Nothing herein shall prevent the
Plain City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violations.
      9.   Stop Work Order:
         a.   Authority: Whenever the floodplain administrator or other
community official discovers any work or activity regulated by this section
being performed in a manner contrary to the provision of this section, the
floodplain administrator is authorized to issue a stop work order.
         b.   Issuance: The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be
given to the owner of the property involved, or to the owner's agent, or to the
person doing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall
immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order,
and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume.
         c.   Unlawful Continuance: Any person who shall continue any work
after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall
be subject to penalties as prescribed by local or state law including but not
limited to the penalties outlined below.
      10.   Penalties For Noncompliance: In accordance with Section 59.2(b) of
CFR 44, Chapter 1, of the NFIP regulation, to qualify for the sale of federally
subsidized flood insurance, a community must adopt floodplain management
regulations that meet or exceed the minimum standards of Section 60. "These
regulations must include effective enforcement provisions." In accordance with
Section 60.1(b) of CFR 44, Chapter 1, of the NFIP regulations, "These
regulations must be legally enforceable, applied uniformly throughout the
community to all privately and publicly owned land within flood-prone (i.e.
mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas, and the community must provide that
the regulations take precedence over less restrictive conflicting local laws,
ordinances, or codes."
      No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this section
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this section
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this section or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined or
imprisoned or both, for each violation assessed daily, and in addition shall
pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall
prevent Plain City from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
      11.   Automatic Adoption: The Special Flood Hazard Areas identified by
FEMA in its FIS for Weber County, Utah and Incorporated Areas, with
accompanying FIRMs or Digital FIRMs (DFIRM), other supporting data, and all
subsequent Federal amendments and/or revisions, are hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this section.
   D.   Administration:
      1.   Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator: The City Engineer and
Public Works Director are hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrators to
administer and implement the provisions of this section and other appropriate
sections of the NFIP Regulations and 44 CFR pertaining to floodplain
management.
      2.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: Duties
and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
         a.   Uphold the goals of the community and the NFIP to reduce risk
when possible and increase the community's resistance to future disasters.
         b.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of this section, including the actual elevation of
the lowest floor (including basement or crawlspace) of all new or substantially
improved structures and any floodproofing certificates, including the data
supporting such certificates.
         c.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection maps that identify
and locate the boundaries of the SFHAs to which this section applies,
including, but not limited to, the FIRM.
         d.   Review development proposals to determine whether a proposed
building site, including sites designed for the placement of manufactured
homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding.
         e.   Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this section.
         f.   Ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from those
federal, state, or local governmental agencies (including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334 and the
Endangered Species Act of 1973) from which prior approval is required.
         g.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
         h.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the
State Coordinating Agency, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to FEMA.
         i.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation.
         j.   When BFE data has not been provided by FEMA, the Floodplain
Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data and
floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source including data
provided by the applicant, in order to administer the provisions of this
section.
         k.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, no new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted within Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the community's FIRM,
unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than 1.00*
feet at any point within the community.
         l.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12 of the
NFIP Regulations, a community may approve certain development in Zones A1-30,
AE, and AH on the community's FIRM, which increases the water surface elevation
of the base flood by more than 1.00 foot, provided that the community first
meets the requirements of Section 65.12 for a conditional FIRM revision through
FEMA's CLOMR process.
      3.   Requirement To Submit New Technical Data: The property owner or
developer shall notify FEMA by submittal of a LOMR within six (6) months of
project completion when an applicant has obtained a CLOMR from FEMA or when
development altered a watercourse, modified floodplain boundaries, or modified
BFE.
         a.   The property owner or developer shall be responsible for
preparing technical data to support the CLOMR or LOMR application and paying
any processing or application fees to FEMA. The property owner or developer is
responsible for submitting the CLOMR and LOMR to FEMA and shall provide all
necessary data to FEMA if requested during the review process to ensure the
CLOMR or LOMR is issued.
         b.   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign
the Community Acknowledgement Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR
application, until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met
the requirements of this section and all applicable state federal, and local
laws.
      4.   Permit Procedures: Application for a Development Permit shall be
presented to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may
include, but not be limited to:
         a.   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of proposed landscape alterations.
         b.   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of existing and proposed structures, including the placement of
manufactured homes.
         c.   Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHAs.
         d.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement and crawlspace) of all new and substantially improved
structures, if applicable;
         e.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), to which any
nonresidential structure (if applicable) shall be floodproofed.
         f.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure (if applicable) shall
meet the floodproofing criteria of this section and the NFIP Regulations.
         g.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated because of proposed development, if
applicable.
         h.   At the community's discretion, the community may charge a fee for
issuance of floodplain development permits.
         i.   Copies of all floodplain development permits and the associated
documents shall become property of the community and a permanent record.
      Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this section and the
following relevant factors:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage.
         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development.
         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems.
         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
         j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
      5.   Variance Procedures: The Plain City Hearing Officer shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this section
after a floodplain development permit has been denied.
         a.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal
Board may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
         b.   The Hearing Officer, shall hear and render judgement on an appeal
only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement of
administration of this section.
         c.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
actions involving an appeal and shall report variances to FEMA and the State
Coordinating Agency upon issuing a variance.
         d.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood elevation, providing the relevant factors in this section have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
         e.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of
this section, the Hearing Officer may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
section.
         f.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         g.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure. The term ''substantial
improvement' does not include any alteration of a structure or facility listed
on the National Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic
Places.
      Prerequisites for granting variances:
         a.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   Showing a good and sufficient cause.
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant.
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, conflict with existing local laws or ordinances, considers the
need of ingress and egress during times of floods, and does not jeopardize
first responders' health and welfare.
         b.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the BFE, and that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
         c.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
            (1)   The criteria outlined in this section are met; and
            (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods
that minimize flood damage during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety.
   E.   Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction:
      1.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following provisions are required for all new construction and substantial
improvements:
         a.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         c.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         d.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations,
and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures, the
Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the applicable community
officials and staff, shall:
         a.   Estimate the market value or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure only, not of land and building, before the start of
construction of the proposed work. In the case of repair, the market value of
the building or structure shall be the market value before the damage occurred
and before any repairs are made.
         b.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure.
         c.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the Substantial Improvement paragraph above.
         d.   Utilize FEMA's Substantial Improvement/Substantial Desk Reference
when making any determination on Substantial Improvement and/or Substantial
Damage.
         e.   The substantial improvement regulations apply to all of the work
that is proposed as the improvement, even if multiple permits are issued.
Therefore, the determination of the cost of the improvement should consider all
costs of all phases of the work before issuance of the first permit.
         f.   Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood, this section is required.
      5.   Specific Standards: In all SFHAs, and in areas of known or suspected
flood risk areas, the provisions in the following paragraphs are required.
      6.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to one foot above the base flood elevation, unless a
freeboard option is noted below. If a freeboard option is noted, new
construction and substantial improvement shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to the freeboard elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit certified elevations to the
Floodplain Administrator to ensure that the standards of this section are
satisfied.
      7.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to one foot
above the base flood elevation or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood elevation the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification that includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator. If the use or
occupancy of the building changes in the future to residential, then the dry
floodproofing of the structure cannot be used when determining compliance of
the structure to the residential construction of this section as listed above,
and as such, the building will not be grandfathered into compliance and will be
required to be brought into compliance with the residential construction
requirements of this section.
      8.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are to be used solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement, and are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect, or must meet or
exceed the following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      The development and construction of the structure must conform with the
provision in FEMA/Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) Technical Bulletins 1
and 2. Certification and documentation from a professional, licensed engineer
or architect is required if the structure's lowest floor is built below the
BFE.
      9.   Crawlspace: New construction and substantial improvements built on a
crawlspace or sub-grade (below grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the
development is designed and meets or exceeds the standards found in FEMA's
Technical Bulletins 1, 2, and 11, which include but are not limited to the
following:
         a.   The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation, designed
and adequately anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of
the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is
not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than five feet (5') per
second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design professional, such
as a registered architect or professional engineer.
         b.   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such,
must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood vent opening
can be no more than one foot (1') above the LAG.
         c.   The crawlspace enclosure must have proper openings that allow
equalization of hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. To achieve this, a minimum of one square inch of flood opening is
required per one square foot of the enclosed area subject to flooding.
         d.   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, piers, or other materials that extend below the BFE. Ductwork, in
particular, must either be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters.
         e.   Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be
elevated above the BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or
accumulate within the system components during flood conditions.
         f.   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more
than two feet (2') below the LAG.
         g.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
lowest interior grade of the crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist
of the next higher floor cannot exceed four feet (4') at any point.
         h.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
         i.   Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace
construction, with the interior elevation at or above the LAG.
      10.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on
a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         b.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites
            (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision;
            (4)   Or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the BFE plus one foot (1') of
freeboard, unless a higher standard option was selected, and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         c.   In A-1-30, AH, AO and AE Zones, require that manufactured homes
to be placed or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park to
be elevated so that
            (1)   The lowest floor is at or above the BFE plus one foot (1') of
freeboard, unless a higher standard option was selected;
            (2)   Or the chassis is supported by reinforced piers no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and securely anchored.
      11.   Recreational Vehicle Standards: In all Areas of Special Flood
Hazard, Recreational Vehicles, must either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days;
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or
jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and have no permanently attached structures or addition,
or
         c.   The recreational vehicle must meet all the requirements for
permit procedures in this section, including the anchoring and elevation
requirements of "manufactured homes" of this section.
      12.   Standards For Subdivision Proposals:
         a.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development
Permit requirements of this section to minimize flood damage.
         b.   All subdivision preliminary plats/development plans shall include
the mapped flood hazard zones from the effective FIRM
         c.   BFE data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other
proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, or
whichever is lesser.
         d.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
         e.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
      13.   Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones) Located
within the SFHAs established in this section under the subsection C1 "Lands to
Which this Section Applies," are areas designated as shallow flooding. These
areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to
three feet (1'-3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the
path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following
provisions apply:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least two feet (2') if no depth number is
specified). If the community has elected a freeboard standard, then the lowest
floor elevation must be elevated above the highest adjacent grade above the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two feet (2')
if no depth number is specified) plus the freeboard height option selected
below.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures:
            (1)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least two feet (2') if no depth number is
specified). If the community has elected a freeboard standard, then the lowest
floor elevation must be elevated above the highest adjacent grade above the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two feet (2')
if no depth number is specified) plus the freeboard height option selected
below; or
            (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base flood elevation the structure is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy.
         c.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section.
         d.   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
      14.   Floodways: Floodways located within SFHAs are extremely hazardous
areas due to the velocity of flood waters that carry debris, potential
projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply: 1.
Designate a regulatory floodway that will not increase the base flood level
more than one foot (1'). 2. Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other development within the adopted
regulatory floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase greater than
0.00 feet, in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. 3. All new construction and substantial improvements
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this
section. 4. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
NFIP Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted
regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in BFEs, provided that the
community first applies for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision through
FEMA. (Ord. 2023-19, 12-7-2023)
10-18-19: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a subdivision
recorded prior to the effective date hereof. (Ord. 2013-04, 4-18-2013, eff. 4-
19-2013)
CHAPTER 19
MIXED USE OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-19-1: Purpose And Intent
10-19-2: Use Regulations
10-19-3: General Regulations
10-19-4: Submission Of Application
10-19-5: Planning Commission And City Council Consideration
10-19-6: Planning Commission Action
10-19-7: City Council Action
10-19-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The Mixed Use Overlay Zone is established to facilitate the development of
residential projects in conjunction with or adjacent to compatible commercial
uses, including in the Neighborhood (C-1) and General (C-2) Commercial Zones.
Residential development in mixed use zones will maintain high design and
construction standards while accomplishing the following objectives:
   A.   To encourage mixed use projects that combine residential with
nonresidential uses in the same building or building site area as a means to
create an active neighborhood and enhance the vitality of businesses;
   B.   To encourage walkable places with adequate sidewalks and access to
trails;
   C.   To provide additional housing options for people, including but not
limited to, young professionals and older people;
   D.   To provide moderate income housing, as defined by Utah State Code and
based on the area median income of Weber County;
   E.   To ensure on-site compatibility of residential and non- residential
uses; and
   F.   To ensure compatibility of mixed use projects with surrounding uses and
development patterns. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; amd. Ord. 2020-
01, 1-16-2020)
10-19-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Zones Allowed: Residential uses in the Neighborhood (C-1) and General
(C-2) Commercial Zones are permitted when the proposed development complies
with the standards outlined in section
10-19-3 of this chapter and after the review and recommendation by the Planning
Commission and review and approval by the City Council.
   B.   Prohibited Uses: The following uses are deemed to be incompatible and
are therefore prohibited in a Mixed Use Overlay Zone:
Any vehicle use that sells, contracts to sell, offers to sell, displays for the
purpose of sale, or permits the sale of any vehicle from a vacant or unimproved
lot or parking lot.
Automobile repair facilities.
Automobile service stations.
Automotive salvage, recycling, or scrap yard.
Car wash facilities.
Fast food and drive-in restaurants.
Motels and hotels.
Motor vehicle dealerships.
Sales, storage or repair of open-bed, travel or camping trailers.
Swap meets.
All other uses as permitted or conditional in the C-1 and C-2 Commercial Zones
will be considered. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; amd. Ord. 2020-
01, 1-16-2020)
10-19-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Residential dwellings in commercial buildings shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   Maximum Residential Use: The maximum residential use in any
commercial building shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total usable
square footage.
      2.   Minimum Size: The minimum size of residential units in commercial
buildings shall be as follows:
         a.   Studio/efficiency/bachelor: Four hundred fifty (450) square feet.
         b.   One bedroom: Six hundred (600) square feet.
         c.   Two (2) bedrooms: Eight hundred (800) square feet.
         d.   Three (3) or more bedrooms: One thousand one hundred (1,100)
square feet.
      3.   Site Development Standards:
         a.   Minimum lot area: None.
         b.   Minimum yard setbacks:
            (1)   Front: Twenty feet (20') except for in the Town Center as
referenced in the General Plan, the Future Land Use Map, and as defined in
section
10-6-2 of this title.
            (2)   Side: None, except ten feet (10') adjacent to a residential
use.
            (3)   Side facing street on corner lot: Twenty feet (20').
            (4)   Rear: None, except ten feet (10') adjacent to a residential
use.
         c.   Building height:
            (1)   Minimum: One story.
            (2)   Maximum: Thirty feet (30').
         d.   Minimum frontage: None.
         e.   Maximum lot coverage: Sixty percent (60%) of lot area by
buildings or accessory buildings.
      4.   Density: The maximum residential density shall not exceed eight and
a half (8.5) units per acre.
      5.   Off-Street Parking: Minimum two (2) parking spaces per unit in
addition to required parking for commercial use per section
10-9-3 of this title. Parking for residential dwelling units in commercial
buildings is encouraged to be provided in the rear of buildings as appropriate.
   B.   Separate single-family dwellings and multi-family dwelling units in a
commercial development of ten (10) acres or less, shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   Maximum Residential Use: Separate single-family dwellings and multi-
family dwelling units shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of total occupiable
structures. Area of residential use shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
total occupiable square footage.
      2.   Garage Requirement: Dwellings shall have at least a one car garage
(with minimum interior dimensions of 10 feet by 20 feet) per dwelling unit.
      3.   Dwellings With Common Walls: Common walls between dwellings are
allowed up to a maximum of four (4) dwelling units; not to exceed an overall
maximum density of eight and a half (8.5) dwelling units per acre.
      4.   Garage Doors: Where a garage is placed on the front building facade,
the width of the garage door(s) shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
total width of the front building facade. All garage doors shall not exceed
twelve feet (12').
      5.   Height: All dwellings shall not exceed thirty feet (30'); measured
from the lowest finished grade to the highest point of the roof.
      6.   Exterior Finish: Exterior finish materials of dwellings shall be at
least thirty percent (30%) masonry. At least fifty percent (50%) masonry shall
be required for dwellings with common walls. For the purposes of this section,
masonry shall include brick or stone or a material approved by the Planning
Commission majority.
      7.   Square Footage: The minimum square footage of each dwelling area
shall be nine hundred (900) square feet and the maximum square footage of each
dwelling area shall be at most one thousand seven hundred (1,700) square feet,
excluding garages.
      8.   Roof Planes: All dwellings shall have at least two (2) roof planes
on the front building facade. Examples of this requirement include a hip style
roof and a gable end on the front elevation with a cross gable.
      9.   Relief Feature: All dwellings shall have at least one relief feature
on the front building facade. Examples of relief items include: bay or box
windows, cantilevered living areas, covered front porches and foundation
projections or recesses.
      10.   Basement And Crawl Spaces: Basements and crawl spaces shall not be
permitted on residential buildings in commercial zones.
      11.   Site Development Standards:
         a.   Minimum lot area: Eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
         b.   Minimum yard setbacks:
            (1)   Front: Twenty feet (20').
            (2)   Side: Ten feet (10'), with combined side yard setbacks of
twenty feet (20').
            (3)   Side facing street on corner lot: Twenty feet (20').
            (4)   Rear: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Building height:
            (1)   Minimum: One story.
            (2)   Maximum: Thirty feet (30').
            (3)   Dwellings with common walls shall meet requirements in 10-19-
3B.3.
         d.   Minimum frontage: Eighty feet (80').
      12.   Off-Street Parking: Minimum two (2) parking spaces per dwelling and
shall meet the requirements of section
10-9-2 of this title.
      13.   Landscaping: A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) landscaping shall
be required of residential developments in commercial zones. Landscaped
improvements include areas for grass and trees and other plants following the
standards as outlined in section
10-8-15 of this title and any open space developed as a park or trail. Proposed
parks and trails should be identified in the General Plan or requested
specifically by the Planning Commission or City Council in consultation with
the City Parks and Recreation Department. Landscaping proposed to meet the
fifteen percent (15%) requirement and encumbered by easements, wetlands, or
utilities may only be utilized at a rate of up to twenty five percent (25%).
Formations that provide State mandated stormwater detention or retention do not
qualify as developed open space. All landscaping is to be maintained privately
by the owner and/or private association. The fifteen percent (15%) landscaping
requirement may be reduced when an exceptional amenity or amenities of Citywide
benefit are included in, or in conjunction with, the project as determined by
the Planning Commission or City Council. Maintenance of public amenities in
commercial zones is to be maintained solely by the property owner and/or
private association unless otherwise agreed upon by the City Council.
      14.   Pedestrian: Sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet (5') in
width. All dwellings should have clear access to sidewalks and/or trails with
either a sidewalk or a marked crossing (of roads, driveways, or parking areas)
to the nearest sidewalk.
      15.   Mailboxes: Provide for mailboxes as appropriate and in consultation
with USPS.
   C.   Separate single-family dwellings and multi-family dwelling units in a
commercial development of greater than ten (10) acres, shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   Maximum Residential Use: Separate single-family dwellings and multi-
family dwelling units shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of total occupiable
structures. Area of residential use shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of
total occupiable square footage.
      2.   Garage Requirement: Dwellings shall have at least a one car garage
(with minimum interior dimensions of 10 feet by 20 feet) per dwelling unit.
      3.   Dwellings With Common Walls: Common walls between dwellings are
allowed up to a maximum of four (4) dwelling units and not to exceed more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of all dwelling units in a development or not to
exceed an overall maximum density of eight and a half (8.5) dwelling units per
acre.
      4.   Garage Doors: Where a garage is placed on the front building facade,
the width of the garage door(s) shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
total width of the front building facade. All garage doors shall not exceed
twelve feet (12').
      5.   Bonus Rooms: Bonus rooms are allowed above garages on up to thirty
percent (30%) of all units in a development.
      6.   Height: All dwellings shall not exceed thirty feet (30'); measured
from the lowest finished grade to the highest point of the roof.
      7.   Exterior Finish: Exterior finish materials of dwellings shall be at
least thirty percent (30%) masonry. At least fifty percent (50%) masonry shall
be required for dwellings with common walls. For the purposes of this section,
masonry shall include brick or stone or a material approved by the planning
commission majority.
      8.   Square Footage: The minimum square footage of each dwelling area
shall be nine hundred (900) square feet and the maximum square footage of each
dwelling area shall be at most one thousand seven hundred (1,700) square feet,
excluding garages.
      9.   Roof Planes: All dwellings shall have at least two (2) roof planes
on the front building facade. Examples of this requirement include a hip style
roof and a gable end on the front elevation with a cross gable.
      10.   Relief Feature: All dwellings shall have at least one relief
feature on the front building facade. Examples of relief items include: bay or
box windows, cantilevered living areas, covered front porches and foundation
projections or recesses.
      11.   Basement And Crawl Spaces: Basements and crawl spaces shall not be
permitted on residential buildings in commercial zones.
      12.   Site Development Standards:
         a.   Minimum Lot Area: Eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
         b.   Minimum Yard Setbacks:
            (1)   Front: Twenty feet (20').
            (2)   Side: Ten feet (10'), with combined side yard setbacks of
twenty feet (20').
            (3)   Side Facing Street On Corner Lot: Twenty feet (20').
            (4)   Rear: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Building Height:
            (1)   Maximum - Single Family Dwellings: One story maximum, except
for bonus rooms (no more than thirty percent (30%) of all units).
            (2)   Maximum - Units With Shared Walls: Two (2) stories maximum
and shall meet requirements in 10-19-3B.3.
            (3)   Maximum: Thirty feet (30').
         d.   Minimum Frontage: Eighty feet (80').
      13.   Off-Street Parking: Minimum two (2) parking spaces per dwelling
unit per section
10-9-2 of this title.
      14.   Landscaping: A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) landscaping shall
be required of residential developments in commercial zones. Landscaped
improvements include areas for grass and trees and other plants following the
standards as outlined in section
10-8-15 of this title and any open space developed as a park or trail. Proposed
parks and trails should be identified in the General Plan or requested
specifically by the Planning Commission or City Council in consultation with
the City Parks and Recreation Department. Landscaping proposed to meet the
fifteen percent (15%) requirement and encumbered by easements, wetlands, or
utilities may only be utilized at a rate of up to twenty five percent (25%).
Formations that provide State mandated stormwater detention or retention do not
qualify as developed open space. All landscaping is to be maintained privately
by the owner and/or private association. The fifteen percent (15%) landscaping
requirement may be reduced when an exceptional amenity or amenities of citywide
benefit are included in, or in conjunction with, the project as determined by
the Planning Commission or City Council. Maintenance of public amenities in
commercial zones is to be maintained solely by the property owner and/or
private association unless otherwise agreed upon by the City Council.
      15.   Pedestrian: Sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet (5') in
width. All dwellings should have clear access to sidewalks and/or trails with
either a sidewalk or a marked crossing (of roads, driveways, or parking areas)
to the nearest sidewalk.
      16.   Mailboxes: Provide for mailboxes as appropriate and in consultation
with USPS. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 1-16-
2020)
10-19-4: SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Required: An application for a Mixed Use Overlay Zone shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission. A concept plan including the following
items shall be submitted with the application for the Mixed Use Overlay Zone:
      1.   Proposed layout including streets, lots, and setbacks;
      2.   Development density, coverage, and open space characteristics
including landscaping, fencing, screening, and parking;
      3.   A description of architectural elevations and floor plans
demonstrating the general design, character, and exterior building materials of
the proposed structures. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; amd. Ord.
2020-01, 1-16-2020)
10-19-5: PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL CONSIDERATION:
In considering the proposed Mixed Use Overlay Zone, the Planning Commission and
City Council shall consider:
   A.   Design: The design, exterior materials, housing type and quality of
buildings and their relationship to the site and their relationship to
development beyond the boundaries of the development.
   B.   Streets, Traffic, Parking: Which streets shall be public and which
shall be private, the entrances and exits to the development and the provisions
for internal and external traffic circulation and off street parking.
   C.   Landscaping, Screening: The landscaping and screening as related to the
several uses within the development as a means of its integration into its
surroundings.
   D.   Density: The residential density of the proposed development and its
distribution as compared with the residential density of the surrounding lands,
either existing or as indicated on the zoning map or Master Plan as being a
desirable future residential density. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019;
amd. Ord. 2020-01, 1-16-2020)
10-19-6: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
Mixed-Use Overlay Zone.
   B.   The Planning Commission, subject to the requirements of this chapter
and this Code, shall recommend to approve, modify with conditions, or deny the
Mixed Use Overlay Zone. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; amd .Ord.
2020-01, 1-16-2020)
10-19-7: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   The City Council may hold a public hearing on the proposed Mixed Use
Overlay Zone. The City Council shall approve, approve with conditions and
development agreement, or deny the Mixed Use Overlay Zone.
   Upon approval or approval with conditions, an applicant may proceed with a
subdivision application per title 11, chapter 3 of this Code, or an application
for a site plan approval per section
10-8-16 of this title, whichever applies. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-
2019; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 1-16-2020)
CHAPTER 20
RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY ZONE WITH PUBLIC AMENITIES
SECTION:
10-20-1: Purpose And Intent
10-20-2: Use Regulations
10-20-3: General Regulations
10-20-4: Submission Of Conditional Rezone Application
10-20-5: Technical Review Committee, Planning Commission And City Council
Consideration
10-20-6: Technical Review Committee
10-20-7: Planning Commission Action
10-20-8: City Council Action
10-20-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The Residential Overlay Zone with Public Amenities is established to provide
for and encourage better planned and more desirable residential developments
that provide various lot sizes and public amenities, including the preservation
of open space and the development of parks, trails, and other open space.
   A.   It is expressly provided that the Residential Overlay Zone with Public
Amenities is not intended to be utilized for all residential development within
the City. The Residential Overlay Zone with Public Amenities shall only be
permitted for property approved by the City Council.
   B.   It is established to promote development of pathways (multi-purpose
routes accessible to pedestrians, bicyclists and equestrians) and as such, will
solely be considered for areas comprising or adjacent to existing or proposed
pathway corridors, set forth in the Plain City Parks, Trails, and Open Space
Master Plan. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; amd. Ord. 2019-12, 11-
21-2019; Ord. 2021-09, 6-3-2021)
10-20-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Zones Allowed: Residential uses in the Medium Density Residential (MDR)
1, 2, and 3 areas as indicated on the Future Land Use Map of the General Plan
(including only properties that have already been rezoned as RE-18.5, RE-15 and
R-1-11) after the review and recommendation by the Planning Commission and
review and approval by the City Council.
   B.   Permitted Housing Types: If the Residential Overlay Zone with Public
Amenities is approved: single-family, detached dwelling units may be permitted
in MDR 1 and 2 (RE-18.5 and RE-15); single-family, detached dwelling units and
two-family, attached (duplex) dwelling units may be permitted in MDR 3 (R-1-
11); after the review and recommendation by the Planning Commission and review
and approval by the City Council.
      1.   Lots utilized for the construction of two-family, attached (duplex)
dwelling units shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total lots in the
subdivision.
      2.   Two-family, attached (duplex) dwelling units shall be constructed on
a minimum lot area of one-half (1/2) acre (21,780 square feet). (Ord. 2019-04,
1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; amd. Ord. 2019-12, 11-21-2019; Ord. 2021-09, 6-3-
2021)
10-20-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Residential subdivisions with public amenities may be granted the exceptions
described herein to site development standards within each zone when the
applicant has demonstrated that the subdivision meets the following standards:
   A.   The subdivision provides an exceptional amenity or amenities (deemed
acceptable by the Planning Commission and City Council) that are made available
to the public or provides developed open space comprised of thirty three
percent (33%) of the proposed development (1:2 ratio of developed open space to
housing). Any developed open space shall be dedicated to the City, subject to
approval by the City Council, and made available for public use and shall
include a park and/or trails that have been identified in the General Plan or
other parks and/or trails requested specifically by the Planning Commission or
City Council in consultation with the City Parks and Recreation Department.
Formations that provide State mandated stormwater detention or retention do not
qualify as developed open space unless occupying more than five (5) acres and
determined by the Planning Commission to be suitable for multiple uses. In
cases of approved multi-use stormwater detention or retention basins, the
developer shall (at City's discretion) provide restrooms and parking spaces.
   B.   In cases of approved multi-use stormwater detention or retention
basins:
      1.   Seventy-five percent (75%) of the approved basin area shall qualify
as developed open space.
      2.   The developer shall (at City's discretion) provide restrooms and
parking.
   C.   The subdivision does not exceed a gross maximum density in the Medium
Density Residential (MDR) areas indicated on the Future Land Use Map of the
General Plan of:
      1.   Three (3) units per acre in MDR 1;
      2.   Four (4) units per acre in MDR 2; and
      3.   Five (5) units per acre in MDR 3.
      Gross maximum density is calculated by taking the number of proposed
residential lots and dividing by the total acreage of the development
(including roads).
   D.   The subdivision meets the following overall minimum development
standards:
      1.   Minimum Lot Area: Seven thousand (7,000) square feet.
      2.   Minimum Yard Setbacks:
         a.   Front: Twenty-five feet (25').
         b.   Side: Total of eighteen feet (18'), minimum eight feet (8') on
one side.
         c.   Street Side On Corner Lot: Twenty-five feet (25').
         d.   Rear: Twenty feet (20').
      3.   Building Height:
         a.   Minimum: One story.
         b.   Maximum: Twenty-eight feet (28') - not more than two (2) stories.
      4.   Minimum Frontage: Sixty-five feet (65') for single-family dwelling
units and one hundred forty feet (140') for duplexes.
   E.   Separate single-family dwellings and multi-family dwelling units in a
Residential Overlay Zone shall comply with the following standard:
      1.   Garage Doors: Where a garage is placed on the front building facade,
the width of the garage door(s) shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
total width of the front building facade. All garage doors shall not exceed
twelve feet (12') in height. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; amd.
Ord. 2019-12, 11-21-2019; Ord. 2021-09, 6-3-2021)
10-20-4: SUBMISSION OF CONDITIONAL REZONE APPLICATION:
   A.   Required: A conditional rezone application for a Residential Overlay
Zone with Public Amenities shall be submitted to the Technical Review
Committee. A concept plan including the following items shall be submitted with
the application for the conditional rezone:
      1.   Proposed layout including streets, lots, and setbacks;
      2.   Development density, coverage, and open space characteristics
including landscaping, fencing, screening, and parking;
      3.   Proposed location(s) for mailbox(es) in accordance with USPS
requirements, shown on the proposed layout;
      4.   A description of architectural elevations and floor plans
demonstrating the general design, character, and exterior building materials of
the proposed structures. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; amd. Ord.
2019-12, 11-21-2019; Ord. 2021-09, 6-3-2021)
10-20-5: TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE, PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL
CONSIDERATION:
In considering the proposed Residential Overlay Zone, the Technical Review
Committee, Planning Commission and City Council shall consider:
   A.   Design: The design, exterior materials, housing type and quality of
buildings and their relationship to the site and their relationship to
development beyond the boundaries of the development.
   B.   Streets, Traffic, Parking: Which streets shall be public and which
shall be private, the entrances and exits to the development and the provisions
for internal and external traffic circulation and off-street parking.
   C.   Open Space: The proposed open space as a means of its integration into
the City and the neighborhood.
      1.   All attendant open space, privately or otherwise owned, shall be
publicly accessible and contained within the perimeter of the development.
      2.   Formations that provide State mandated stormwater detention or
retention do not qualify as developed open space unless occupying more than
five (5) acres and determined by the Planning Commission to be suitable for
multiple uses. In cases of approved multi-use stormwater detention or retention
basins, the developer shall (at City's discretion) provide restrooms and
parking spaces.
   D.   Density: The residential density of the proposed development and its
distribution as compared with the residential density of the surrounding lands.
   E.   Property Discrepancies: Conflicts associated with property
characteristics and/or ownership, such as, but not limited to recorded property
line inconsistencies, ambiguous or contested ownership, etc. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-
17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 6-3-2021)
10-20-6: TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE:
The Technical Review Committee shall review the conditional rezone application
to be sure the proposed rezone meets certain minimum requirements and that the
proposed project is in harmony with the intent of the City's General Plan.
Prior to the conditional rezone application going before the Planning
Commission, the Technical Review Committee must document that the minimum
requirements of the application have been met. (Ord. 2021-09, 6-3-2021)
10-20-7: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
Residential Overlay Zone with Public Amenities.
   B.   The Planning Commission, subject to the requirements of this chapter,
shall recommend to approve, modify with conditions, or deny the Residential
Overlay Zone with Public Amenities. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019;
amd. Ord. 2019-12, 11-21-2019; Ord. 2021-09, 6-3-2021)
10-20-8: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   The City Council may hold a public hearing on the proposed Residential
Overlay Zone. The City Council shall approve the conditional rezone application
or deny the conditional rezone of the Residential Overlay Zone with Public
Amenities. Approval of the conditional rezone application shall include, but
shall not be limited to the following conditions:
      1.   Submission, review and approval of a development agreement between
the applicant and the City.
      2.   Submission, review and approval of a site plan.
      3.   Submission, review and approval of a final subdivision plat.
   Upon approval of the conditional rezone application, an applicant may
proceed with the preparation of a detailed development agreement, Site plan and
subdivision application per title 11, chapter 3 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-04, 1-
17-2019, eff. 1-17-2019; amd. Ord. 2019-12, 11-21-2019; Ord. 2021-09, 6-3-2021)
CHAPTER 21
DETACHED ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
SECTION:
10-21-1: Purpose And Intent
10-21-2: Use Regulations
10-21-3: General Regulations
10-21-4: Submission Of Application
10-21-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose and intent of Detached Accessory Dwelling Units (DADUs) is
to integrate moderate-income housing opportunities with reasonable limitations
to minimize the impact on neighboring properties, and to promote the health,
safety, and welfare of the property owners and residents.
   B.   Requests for DADUs must be approved by staff prior to the issuance of a
building permit (see section 4 below). (Ord. 2022-10, 7-21-2022, eff. 7-21-
2022)
10-21-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definition: for purposes of this code, defined as a subordinate single
family dwelling with no partial subletting allowed, which has its own kitchen,
living/sleeping area, and sanitation facilities and that is:
      1.   A detached structure; or
      2.   Above or behind a detached garage, associated with a single-family
dwelling.
   B.   Minimum lot size: eighteen thousand five hundred (18,500) square feet.
   C.   Not Intended for Sale: DADUs shall not be sold separately from the
primary dwelling unit. Neither the primary dwelling unit nor DADU shall be
rented on a transient basis (periods less than thirty (30) days).
      1.   If the detached accessory dwelling unit is a rental unit, a Home
Occupation business license is required. (Ord. 2022-10, 7-21-2022, eff. 7-21-
2022; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 8-17-2023)
10-21-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Owner Occupied: No DADU shall be created, established, or occupied
unless the owner of the property occupies either a portion of the primary
dwelling or a detached DADU on the same residential lot. For the purpose of
this section, the term "owner occupied" shall be defined as full time residency
within the home by the bona fide property owner(s) as shown on the Weber County
tax assessment rolls, OR that possesses, as shown by a recorded deed, fifty
(50) percent or more ownership in the property, OR that, in the case of
ownership by a family trust, "owner occupied" refers to a trustor of the family
trust that possesses fee title ownership.
   B.   Address: The primary dwelling unit and the DADU shall have the same
address number, but shall refer to the DADU as unit B.
   C.   A DADU shall comply with all building construction and fire codes found
in the current International Residential Code (IRC) at the time the DADU is
constructed, created or subsequently remodeled, including the obtaining of
required building and other permits.
   D.   Utility Meters: A single-family dwelling with a detached accessory
dwelling shall have one (1) but no more than two (2) meters for water, gas, and
electricity utility service, and each meter shall be in the property owner's
name. In the case of septic systems, the applicant must demonstrate the system
has sufficient capacity for another dwelling in accordance with County Health
Department requirements. Water and sewer impact fees are required when adding
an DADU.
   E.   Development Standards: DADUs shall meet the following height, size, and
setback requirements:
         1.   Detached units shall have a minimum separation from the primary
dwelling of 10 feet. Rear and side setbacks are the same as accessory
buildings.
 
Minimum separation from primary dwelling Ten (10) feet
Rear setback                             same as accessory building
Side setback                             same as accessory building
Corner lot side setback                  same as accessory building
 
      2.   Shall provide adequate off-street parking space with concrete or
asphalt. Additional driveways and curb-cuts are permitted where there is an
improved road and shall not be on the same street as an existing driveway or
curb-cut on the property unless they are at least fifty (50) feet apart and
meet the minimum distance for a driveway from an intersection of thirty (30)
feet.
      3.   Detached units shall be limited to twenty-five percent (25%) of the
rear yard.
      4.   A minimum of 25% of a DADU shall be located in the rear yard.
         a.   Rear yard shall mean an open space extending the full width of
the lot, the depth of which is the minimum perpendicular distance between the
rear lot line and the nearest point of the main building footprint. In the case
of a corner lot, the rear yard may be opposite either street frontage.
      5.   Reference
10-8-5  (B) No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than ten feet (10')
and no accessory building in a residential zone shall be erected to a height
greater than twenty-five (25').
   F.   Only one DADU per property. (Ord. 2022-10, 7-21-2022, eff. 7-21-2022;
amd. Ord. 2023-14, 8-17-2023; Ord. 2023-15, 9-21-2023, eff. 9-21-2023)
10-21-4: SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Required: An application for a Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit shall
be submitted to the City. A concept plan including the following information
shall be submitted with the application:
      1.   Proposed dimensions and location on the property;
      2.   Utility plan;
      3.   Off-street Parking for primary dwelling and DADU; and,
      4.   A description of architectural elevations and floor plans (bedrooms,
bathrooms, etc.) demonstrating the general design of the DADU.
(Ord. 2022-10, 7-21-2022, eff. 7-21-2022; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 8-17-2023)
CHAPTER 22
INTERNAL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
SECTION:
10-22-1: Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit
10-22-1: INTERNAL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT:
   A.   Permits for internal Accessory Dwelling Units shall be authorized in
all residential and agricultural zones.
   B.   Applicant will obtain an Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit permit and
inspection from the city before offering for rent an internal accessory
dwelling unit.
   C.   The primary owner of the residence must reside in the residence that
contains an internal accessory dwelling unit.
   D.   No more than one accessory dwelling unit may exist within a single-
family dwelling.
   E.   Accessory Dwelling Units shall comply with all applicable building,
health, and fire codes in effect at the time the accessory dwelling unit is
constructed, created or subsequently remodeled.
   F.   Internal accessory dwelling units shall be designed in a manner that
does not change the appearance of the primary dwelling as a single-family
dwelling.
   G.   Internal accessory dwelling units shall provide adequate parking on
approved surfaces regardless of whether the primary dwelling is existing or new
construction.
   H.   There shall be no on street parking for those occupying an internal
accessory dwelling unit.
   I.   Internal accessory dwelling units are prohibited in mobile homes and in
homes served by a failing septic tank.
   J.   Plain City prohibits the rental or offering for rent of an internal
accessory dwelling unit for a period of less than thirty (30) consecutive days.
   K.   Violation of this chapter may result in penalties, fines, and liens as
outlined by law. (Ord. 2022-06, 5-5-2022)
CHAPTER 23
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS
SECTION:
10-23-1: Definitions
10-23-2: Regulations
10-23-3: Limitations On Permit
10-23-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                          A residential facility, conforming to the
                          requirements of the State Division of Human Services
                          or successor agency, as a Type I or Type II facility,
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: occupied or intended to be occupied by two or more
                          elderly persons and providing assistance with
                          "Activities of Daily Living" and social care to
                          residents. (Ord. 2023-11, 8-3-2023)
 
10-23-2: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Assisted Living Facility for Elderly Persons. Upon application to the
city, the city shall grant a permit for the establishment of an assisted living
facility for elderly persons in a residential zone if the applicant meets the
following requirements:
      1.   The facility conforms to all applicable standards and requirements
of the Utah State Department of Human Services and the owner/operator has
obtained all licenses required by the State to operate such a facility.
      2.   The facility conforms to all State and local building, safety,
health, and zoning requirements applicable to similar structures.
      3.   The facility is operated for the primary purpose of providing a
living arrangement for elderly persons in a group home setting.
      4.   The facility is occupied only by individuals 55 years of age or
older and paid, professional staff members. Occupancy by any staff member shall
only be allowed if such occupancy is primarily for the purpose of serving the
elderly persons and not primarily a benefit of employment to the staff member.
The facility shall not house more than eight elderly persons.
      5.   Residency in the facility shall be on a strictly voluntary basis and
not a part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in a
correctional facility. An assisted living facility for elderly persons shall
not include any persons referred by the Utah State Department of Corrections or
any court.
      6.   The facility will not likely create a fundamental change in the
character of the residential neighborhood in which it is proposed to be
located.
      7.   No individual who has impairment due to addiction of any controlled
substance or alcohol and currently uses such controlled substance or alcohol
will be a resident.
      8.   The facility shall not be made available to or occupied by any
individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
      9.   At least two and a half (2 1/2) off-street parking stalls will be
provided per residents. The parking will be for residents, visitors and staff
members.
      10.   An assisted living facility for elderly persons located in an
existing residential dwelling shall be capable of use as an assisted living
facility for elderly persons without structural or landscaping alterations that
would change the structure's residential character. Any new structure
constructed for use as an assisted living facility for elderly persons shall be
of a size, scale, and design that is in harmony with other residential uses in
the vicinity.
      11.   The total number of residents permitted in an Assisted Living,
Congregate Living, or Nursing Care project (maximum allowed) shall be one
resident per 2,000 square feet of lot area.
      12.   The minimum project size shall be one (1) acre and the maximum
project size shall be two (2) acres.
      13.   Setback shall be thirty (30) feet in the front along a public
street. The rear and side yard setbacks adjacent to residential properties
shall be thirty (30) feet.
      14. The facility is not located closer than 5,280 feet (1 mile) to any
other residential facility for elderly persons or residential facility for
disabled persons, as measured in a straight line between the closest property
lines of the lots on which they are located.
      15.   No person convicted of the illegal manufacture or distribution of a
controlled substance shall be an occupant in a residential facility for
disabled persons.
      16.   The applicant for a permit provides sufficient documentation and
other evidence reasonably required by the City to establish compliance with all
of the above criteria. (Ord. 2023-11, 8-3-2023)
10-23-3: LIMITATIONS ON PERMIT:
Any permit issued pursuant to this Section shall be nontransferable and shall
terminate if the structure is devoted to a use other than an assisted living
facility for elderly persons or the structure fails to comply with all
building, safety, health, and zoning requirements of the Plain City Code
applicable to similar structures. Violation of the requirements listed above
shall be grounds for terminating the permit and the owner/operator shall
thereafter be required to discontinue the use of the premises as an assisted
living facility for elderly persons. (Ord. 2023-11, 8-3-2023)
CHAPTER 24
NON RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITIES
SECTION:
10-24-1: Regulations
10-24-1: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Nonresidential treatment facilities shall not be built in Plain City
except when specifically allowed as a permitted or conditional use in a zone
established under this Title. Each such facility shall conform to the following
requirements:
      1.   The facility shall comply with applicable building, safety, land
use, and health codes or ordinances, the Americans with Disabilities Act,
applicable state core standards and licensing requirements, and any standards
set forth in a contract with a state agency.
      2.   The following site development standards and parking standards shall
be applicable:
         a.   Each facility shall be subject to minimum site development
standards applicable to a business in the zone in which the facility will be
located; and
         b.   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be the same
as the number required for a professional office use building with similar
size, occupancy, and density in the same zone.
      3.   Prior to occupancy of the facility, the person or entity licensed or
certified by the Department of Human Services or the Department of Health to
establish and operate the facility shall:
         a.    Provide a certified copy of such license to the City Recorder;
and
         b.    Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with application for a
business license, compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
      4.   A permit for a nonresidential treatment facility is nontransferable
and shall terminate if:
         a.   The facility is devoted to a use other than a nonresidential
treatment facility; or
         b.   The license or certification issued by the Department of Human
Services, Department of Health, or any other applicable agency, terminates or
is revoked, or the facility fails to comply with the conditions set forth in
this Section.
      5.   A nonresidential treatment facility shall not be located within one
mile from any of the following facilities, measured in a straight line between
the nearest property lines of each facility:
         a.   A residential facility for persons with a disability;
         b.   A residential facility for elderly persons occupied by more than
five (5) such persons;
         c.   A protective housing facility;
         d.   A transitional housing facility;
         e.   An assisted living facility;
         f.   A rehabilitation/treatment facility;
         g.   A nonresidential treatment facility, or
         h.   Any school.
      6.   A nonresidential treatment facility shall not be made available to a
person who has demonstrated by prior or current behavior, actions, and/or
criminal incidents or convictions, that the person's tenancy would:
         a.   Be a direct threat to the health or safety of other persons; or
         b.   Result in substantial physical damage to the property of others.
      7.   To the extent similar requirements to any contained in this Section
are contained in a specific zone in which any facility referred to herein may
be located, the more restrictive provisions shall apply, and the requirements
stated herein shall be considered to be in addition to presently existing Land
Use Codes, subject to the conflict's resolution provisions,
      8.   This type of facility is not permitted in a residential zone. (Ord.
2023-12, 8-3-2023)
CHAPTER 25
RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY
SECTION:
10-25-1: Regulations
10-25-1: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision in this Title, this section
shall govern any facility, residence, or other circumstance that meets the
definition of a residential facility for a person with a disability as set
forth in this Title.
   B.   The following requirements shall apply to a residential facility for
persons with a disability.
      1.   The facility shall comply with building, safety, land use, and
health codes or ordinances applicable to a similar dwelling, the Americans with
Disabilities Act, applicable state core standards and licensing requirements,
and any standards set forth in a contract with a state agency.
      2.   Minimum site development standards shall be the same as those for a
dwelling unit in the zone in which the facility is located.
      3.   In a residential zone, a residential facility for persons with a
disability shall not be established in a non-conforming two-family or non-
conforming multi-family dwelling structure unless it is first converted to a
conforming single-family dwelling structure.
      4.   In a residential zone, a residential facility for persons with a
disability shall not be located within a two-family or multi-family structure
unless the entire structure is used for the facility.
      5.   In a residential zone, not more than three (3) unrelated persons per
permitted dwelling unit shall occupy a facility for persons with a disability,
based on the existing density standards for the zone in which it is located,
and up to a maximum of six (6) persons.
      6.   There shall be a minimum of ten (10) parking spaces per unit.
      7.   The facility shall not be made available to a person who has
demonstrated by prior or current behavior, actions, and/or criminal incidents
or convictions, that the person's tenancy would:
         a.   Be a direct threat to the health or safety of other persons; or
         b.   Result in substantial physical damage to the property of others.
      8.   Prior to occupancy of the facility, the person or entity licensed or
certified by the Department of Human Services and/or the Department of Health
to establish and operate the facility shall:
         a.   Provide a certified copy of such license or certification to the
City Recorder;
         b.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, that the facility complies with the Americans with
Disabilities Act; and
         c.   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, that no person will be placed or remain in the facility who
has demonstrated by prior or current behavior, actions, and/or criminal
incidents or convictions, that such person's tenancy would be a direct threat
to the health or safety of other persons, or result in substantial physical
damage to the property of others. Such affidavit shall be supplemented and
updated with an application for renewal of the business license.
      9.   A permit for a residential facility for persons with a disability is
nontransferable and shall terminate if:
         a.   The structure is devoted to a use other than a residential
facility for persons with a disability;
         b.   The structure fails to comply with the requirements set forth in
this Section; or
         c.   The license or certification issued by the Department of Human
Services, Department of Health or any other applicable agency, terminates or is
revoked.
      10.   A residential facility for persons with a disability that is a
substance abuse facility and is located within five hundred feet (500') of a
school, shall provide, in accordance with rules established by the Department
of Human Services under Title 62A, Chapter 2, Licensure of Programs and
Facilities:
         a.   A security plan satisfactory to local law enforcement
authorities;
         b.   Twenty-four (24) hour supervision for residents; and
         c.   Other twenty-four (24) hour security measures.
      11.   A residential facility for persons with a disability shall not be
located within two thousand six hundred forty feet 5280 (1) mile from another
such facility, measured in a straight line between the nearest property lines
of each facility.
   C.   None of the foregoing conditions shall be interpreted to limit any
reasonable accommodation necessary to allow the establishment or occupancy of a
residential facility for persons with a disability. A request for a reasonable
accommodation shall be made in accordance with the provisions set forth in
Section 14-2-107, ADA and FFHA Accommodations, of this Title. (Ord. 2023-13, 8-
3-2023)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Usage
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-1: USAGE:
   A.   For the purpose of these regulations, certain numbers, abbreviations,
terms, and words used herein shall be used, interpreted, and defined as set
forth in this section or chapter.
   B.   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary words used in the
present tense include the future tense; words used in the plural number include
the singular; the word "herein" means "in these regulations"; the word
"regulations" means these regulations.
   C.   A "person" includes a corporation, partnership, and an unincorporated
association of persons such as a club; "shall" is always mandatory; a
"building" includes a "structure"; a "building" or "structure" includes any
part "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed
to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be occupied". (Ord.
2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADJACENT LANDOWNERS: Any property owner of record, according to the records of
the county recorder, whose property adjoins or abuts property proposed for
subdivision or any portion thereof.
ALLEY: A public or private right of way which is less than twenty six feet
(26') wide primarily designed to serve as secondary access to the side or rear
of those properties whose principal frontage is on some other street.
APPLICANT: The owner of land proposed to be laid out and platted or his agent.
An agent shall be required to provide legal documentation to prove he has
consent from the legal owner of the property.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, or boundary lines of municipalities.
BOND: A form of security, including a cash deposit, surety bond, collateral,
property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the city
council. All bonds shall be approved by the city council wherever a bond is
required by these regulations.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or movable property of any kind, and includes any structure.
BUILDING AREA: A portion of a lot, parcel or tract of land which is to be
utilized as the building site having an area of at least two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet with an average slope of less than twenty percent
(20%). Such building area is to be designated as the only area in which
building may take place and outlined on the subdivision plat in which the lot
is located.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM: A proposed schedule of future city projects
listed in order of anticipated construction priority, together with cost
estimates and the anticipated means of financing each project. All major
projects requiring the expenditure of public funds, over and above the annual
city's operating expenses, for the purchase, construction or replacement of the
physical assets for the community are included.
CITY: Plain City, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Plain City, Utah.
CITY ENGINEER: A professional, registered engineer retained by the city.
CONSOLIDATION OF PARCELS: Combining of two (2) or more parcels of property.
COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER: The administrative and executive officer of the Weber
County health department and local registrar of vital statistics or his duly
authorized representatives.
DEVELOPER: The owner, or his agent, of land proposed to be laid out and platted
in accordance with this subdivision title. An agent of the owner shall be
required to provide legal documentation, to be approved by the city attorney,
which establishes his authority to act as agent for the owner.
EASEMENT: That portion of a lot or lots reserved for present or future use by a
person or agency other than the legal owner or owners of said property or
properties. The easement may be for use under, on or above said lot or lots.
FLAG LOT: A flag or L-shaped lot comprised of a staff having a minimum width of
thirty feet (30') and a flag portion consisting of the minimum dimensions
required for a regular lot in the applicable zone. The square footage of the
staff shall not be considered in determining whether the lot size (the flag
portion) requirements are met. (See also subsection 11-5-2E2 of this title.) No
flag lot may be approved within the city except as a conditional use.
FRONTAGE: The distance between the two (2) side lot lines of a parcel measured
along the street, to which the parcel is allowed main access. No state or
federal highway to which no access is allowed shall be considered as frontage.
Frontage on a corner lot shall be limited to one street only.
FRONT LOT LINE: The property line of the lot fronting or abutting one side of
the street and/or right-of-way towards which the front line of a main building
faces or may face. Frontage at curved streets or on the ends of cul-de-sacs
shall meet the required lot width at the setback line.
GENERAL PLAN: A comprehensive plan for development of the city prepared and
recommended for adoption by the planning commission, pursuant to state law, and
including any part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such
plan, or parts thereof.
GRADE: The slope of a road, street or other public way specified in percentage
terms.
HALF STREET: That portion of a street within a subdivision comprising one-half
(1/2) the required right of way width upon which improvements in accordance
with one-half (1/2) of an approved typical street cross section are
constructed.
IMPROVEMENT PLAN: The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat and
showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the
subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the city council as a
condition of the approval of the plat.
JOINT OWNERSHIP: Joint ownership among persons shall be construed as the same
owner for the purpose of imposing subdivision regulations.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a permitted or
conditional use building or group of buildings (main or accessory), together
with such yards, open spaces, parking spaces and other areas required by this
subdivision title and the uniform zoning ordinance of Plain City, having
frontage upon a street or upon a right of way approved by the board of
adjustment. Except for group dwellings and guesthouses, not more than one
dwelling structure shall occupy any one lot.
LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other object,
or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical
betterment of real property or any part of such betterment. Certain lot
improvements shall be properly bonded or escrowed as provided in these
regulations.
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: The relocation of the property boundary line in a
subdivision between two (2) adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of
record. No new lot is created.
LOT, RESTRICTED (R LOT): A lot which contains or is susceptible to special
events or conditions, including, but not limited to, flooding, wetlands,
improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth formations or
topography, fault lines, water table, or any other adverse condition which
would warrant special identification or notice. Such lots shall be subject to
regulated conditions as specified by the city engineer. All "R" lots shall be
clearly identified on the recorded plat.
LOT RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land not less than twenty feet (20') wide
connecting a lot to a street for use as private access to that lot, and
recorded as part of said lot.
MASTER STREET PLAN: A plan labeled "master street plan of Plain City".
OFF SITE FACILITIES: Improvements not on individual lots but generally within
the boundaries of the subdivision which they serve. Certain off site facilities
shall be properly bonded or escrowed as provided in these regulations.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, condominium projects or any other legal entity having legal title
to or sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be laid out and
platted under these regulations.
PARCEL OF LAND: Contiguous quantity of land in possession of, or owned by, or
recorded as the property of the same claimant. Land in one ownership, but
physically divided by a public highway, road or street, is not considered
contiguous under this definition, and may therefore be used as two (2) or more
individual parcels of land.
PLAIN CITY PUBLIC WORKS STANDARDS: Standards governing public and private
contractors performing work within the city as adopted in the Plain City public
works standards and technical specifications ordinance.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The city planning commission of Plain City.
PLAT: A map, plan or depiction of a subdivision showing thereon the division of
a tract or parcel of land into lots, blocks, streets and alleys, or other
divisions and dedications.
PLAT, FINAL: A proposed subdivision drawn accurately to scale and which has all
measurements, data, certificates and dedications thereon which are required for
approval and acceptance by the proper agencies and for recording in the office
of the county recorder.
PROPERTY, INTERVENING: Property located between the existing utilities and
public service facilities, and the property under development.
PROTECTION STRIP: A strip of land bordering both the boundary of a subdivision
and a street within the subdivision for the purpose of controlling the access
to the street from property abutting the subdivision.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any water system, drainage ditch, subsurface drainage
system, storm drainage system, sewer system, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility for which the city may ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation or which may affect an improvement for which City
responsibility is established. All such improvements shall be properly bonded
or escrowed.
PUNCH LIST: A punch list is part of the project closeout portion of the
construction process in which the city prepares a document that lists any work
that has not been completed, or not been completed to city standards.
REMAINDER PARCEL: A parcel of land that is not included in a subdivision but
that is identified as a remainder parcel for future development on the
subdivision plat.
RESUBDIVISION: A change in the map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat
if such change affects any street layout on or area reserved thereon for public
use, any lot line, or any map or plan legally recorded prior to the adoption of
any regulations controlling subdivision.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street,
crosswalk, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main,
sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for another special use. The
usage of the term "right-of-way" for land platting purposes shall mean that
every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be
separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and
not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights-of-
way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm
drains, shade trees, or any other use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to the public use by the maker of the plat on which such
right-of-way is established.
ROAD: See definition of Street.
SCREENING: Either:
   A.   A strip at least five feet (5') wide, densely planted (or having
equivalent natural growth) with shrubs or trees at least four feet (4') high at
the time of planting, of a type that will form a year round dense screen of at
least six feet (6') in height; or
   B.   An opaque wall or barrier or uniformly painted fence at least six feet
(6') high.
STREET: A thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the public and
accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare not less than twenty six
feet (26') wide which has been made public by right of use and which affords
the principal access to the abutting property.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street, existing or proposed, which serves as or is
intended to serve as a major trafficway, and is designated on the master street
plan as a controlled access highway, major street, parkway or other equivalent
term to identify those streets comprising the basic structure of the street
plan.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street, existing or proposed, of considerable continuity,
which is the main means of access to the major street system.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A minor terminal street provided with a turnaround with a
one hundred foot (100') minimum diameter. Cul-de-sac streets shall not be any
longer than four hundred feet (400') from the centerline of the adjoining
street to the center of the turnaround, and cannot provide frontage for more
than fifteen (15) dwelling units.
STREET, MINOR: A street, existing or proposed, which is supplementary to a
collector street and of limited continuity which serves or is intended to serve
the local needs of a neighborhood.
STREET, PRIVATE: A thoroughfare within a subdivision which has been reserved by
dedication unto the developer or lot owners to be used as private access to
serve the lots platted within the subdivision. Private streets shall comply
with the adopted street cross section standards of the City and shall be
maintained by the developer or other private agency.
SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided
into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of
land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or
development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms, and conditions.
   1.   Subdivision includes:
      i)   The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument, regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a
parcel or lot; and
      ii)   Except as provided below, divisions of land for residential and
nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial
agricultural, and industrial purposes.
   2.   Subdivision does not include:
      i)   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable land
use ordinance;
      ii)   A boundary line agreement recorded with the Office of the County
Recorder between owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in
accordance with §10-9a-524 of Utah State Code (as amended) if no new parcel is
created;
      iii)   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record revising the
legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal description encompassing
all such parcels or joining a lot to parcel;
      iv)   A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with §10-9a-524
and §10-9a-608 of Utah State Code (as amended) if no new dwelling lot or
housing unit will result from the adjustment and the adjustment will not
violate any applicable land use ordinance;
      v)   A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed
or other instrument states in writing that the division is in anticipation of
future land use approvals on the parcel or parcels does not confer any land use
approvals, and has not been approved by the land use authority;
      vi)   A parcel boundary adjustment;
      vii)   A lot line adjustment;
      viii)   A joining of one or more lots to a parcel;
      ix)   A road, street, or highway dedication plat;
      x)   A deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
      xi)   Any other division of land authorized by law.
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: Any subdivision with two (2) lots existing on a dedicated
street sewer that has culinary water, and secondary water accessible.
UTILITIES: Gas lines, culinary water lines, storm drainage systems, irrigation
systems, sewer lines, electric power transmission lines, telephone transmission
lines, cable television systems with all poles, wires, pipes, guywires and
bracing pertaining thereto.
WETLANDS: Generally, those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or
ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions. When in conflict, Federal definitions
and standards shall prevail.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance of Plain City as adopted by the City
Council and as amended from time to time. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-
2001; amd. Ord. 2003-13, 12-4-2003, eff. 12-4-2003; Ord. 2008-13, 9-19-2008,
eff. 9-19-2008; Ord. 2014-03, 5-15-2014, eff. 5-15-2014; Ord. 2017-07, 5-18-
2017, eff. 5-19-2017; Ord. 2022-04, 3-17-2022, eff. 3-17-2022; Ord. 2022-08, 5-
19-2022, eff. 5-19-2022; Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024; Ord. 2025-04, 2-20-2025)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-2-1: Title
11-2-2: Policy
11-2-3: Purposes
11-2-4: Jurisdiction
11-2-5: Interpretation, Conflict And Separability
11-2-6: Saving Provision
11-2-7: Reservations And Appeals
11-2-8: Amendments
11-2-9: Conditions
11-2-10: Resubdivision Of Land
11-2-11: Vacation Of Plat
11-2-12: Lot Line Adjustment And Consolidation Of Parcels
11-2-13: Reserved
11-2-14: Public Works Standards
11-2-15: Validity
11-2-16: Enforcement And Inspections
11-2-17: Remainder Parcel
11-2-18: Violations And Penalties
11-2-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall hereafter be known, cited and referred to as the
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF PLAIN CITY. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-2-2: POLICY:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the platted subdivision
as subject to the control of the City pursuant to the official General Plan of
the City for the orderly, planned, efficient and economical development of the
City.
   B.   Land to be laid out and platted shall be of such character that it can
be used safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from
fire, flood or other menace, and land shall not be laid out and platted until
available public facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has
been made, where required, for drainage, culinary water, irrigation water,
sewerage and capital improvements such as schools, parks, recreation
facilities, electrical and natural gas distribution facilities, transportation
facilities and other improvements.
   C.   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the proposals shown in the General Plan, official map and
the capital facilities plan and program of the City. It is intended that these
regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the provisions
and standards contained in Building and Housing Codes, public works standards,
zoning ordinances, General Plan, official map and land use plan, capital
facilities plan (as may be applicable), and other programs of the City. (Ord.
2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-2-3: PURPOSES:
These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the City citizens.
   B.   To guide the future growth and development of the City, in accordance
with the General Plan.
   C.   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy and to secure safety
from fire, flood and other danger and to prevent overcrowding of the land and
undue congestion of population.
   D.   To protect the character, social stability and economic welfare of the
community while encouraging orderly and beneficial development to all parts of
the City.
   E.   To protect and conserve the value of land and the buildings and
improvements upon the land, and to minimize conflicts among uses of land and
buildings.
   F.   To guide public and private policy and actions in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, culinary and irrigation water, sewer,
schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation, streets, curb and gutter, sidewalk,
storm drainage and other public facilities needs.
   G.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the City, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion on the streets and highways,
the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land and
buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines.
   H.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions to further the orderly layout and use of land
and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monuments.
   I.   To ensure that public facilities are available with sufficient capacity
to serve the proposed subdivision.
   J.   To prevent the pollution of air, streams and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the City in order
to preserve the integrity, stability and beauty of the community and the value
of the land.
   K.   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the City and to ensure
appropriate development with regard to these natural features. (Ord. 2001-02,
3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-2-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.   This title shall apply to all "subdivisions" of land, as defined
herein, located within the corporate limits of the City.
   B.   No person shall lay out and plat any tract of land located wholly or
partially within the City except in compliance with this title. No person shall
sell or exchange, or offer to sell or exchange, any parcel of land which is any
part of a subdivision of a larger tract of land, nor offer for recording in the
Office of the County Recorder any deed conveying such parcel of land, or any
interest therein, unless such subdivision has been created pursuant to and in
accordance with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-
1-2001)
   C.   No land shall be laid out and platted within the corporate limits of
the City until:
      1.   The City Council has given final approval of the plat unless
delegated to the Planning Commission; and
      2.   The approved plat is filed with the County Recorder. (Ord. 2017-14,
12-7-2017, eff. 12-8-2017)
   D.   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any
parcel or plat of land which was created by subdivision after the effective
date hereof, and not in conformity with the provisions of this title and no
excavation of land or construction of any public or private improvements shall
take place or be commenced except in conformity with the regulations. (Ord.
2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-2-5: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY:
   A.   Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   Conflict With Public And Private Provisions:
      1.   Public Provisions: These regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or
other provision of law. Where any provision of these regulations imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of these
regulations or any other ordinances, rules or regulations, or other provision
of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards
shall control.
      2.   Private Provisions: These regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant, condition, restriction or any other private provisions;
provided, that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive
or impose higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant or other
private agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall
govern. Where the provisions of the easement, covenant, condition, restriction
or private agreement or restriction impose duties and obligations more
restrictive, or higher standards than the requirements of these regulations, or
the determinations of the Planning Commission or the City in approving a
subdivision or in enforcing these regulations, and such private provisions are
not inconsistent with these regulations or determinations thereunder, then such
private provisions shall be operative and supplemental to these regulations and
determinations made thereunder. Nothing contained therein shall empower or
require the City to enforce such private agreements or restrictions.
   C.   Separability: If any part or provision of these regulations or
application thereof to any person or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its
operation to the part, provision or application directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and shall not
affect or impair the validity of the remainder of these regulations or the
application thereof to other persons or circumstances. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have enacted the remainder or these regulations even
without any such part, provision or application. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff.
3-1-2001)
11-2-6: SAVING PROVISION:
These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as
waiving any right of the City under any section or provision existing at the
time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or annulling any rights
obtained by any person, firm or corporation, by lawful action of the City
except as shall be expressly provided for in these regulations. (Ord. 2001-02,
3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-2-7: RESERVATIONS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Upon the adoption of this title according to law, the subdivision
ordinance of the City adopted January 27, 1976, as amended, is hereby repealed,
except as to such sections expressly retained herein.
   B.   Appeals of land use decisions under this title shall be conducted as
described in section 11-8-6. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd. Ord.
2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-2-8: AMENDMENTS:
This title may be amended from time to time by the City Council after holding a
public hearing upon proper notice. All proposed changes and amendments shall be
proposed by or submitted to the Planning Commission for its recommendation,
which, within thirty (30) days, shall be forwarded to the City Council for its
consideration. Failure of the Planning Commission to submit a recommendation
within the prescribed time shall be deemed approval by such commission of the
proposed change or amendment. The City Council shall uphold or overrule the
recommendation of the Planning Commission by a majority vote of its members
within thirty (30) days following the final vote of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-2-9: CONDITIONS:
   A.   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the State to the City. The developer has the duty of compliance with
reasonable conditions laid down by the Planning Commission for design,
dedication, improvement and restrictive use of the land so as to conform to the
physical and economical development of the City and to the safety and general
welfare of the future plot owners in the subdivision and of the community at
large.
   B.   Any matter upon which action may or shall be taken under the provisions
of this title may, at the City Council's discretion, unless otherwise provided
for in this title, be referred to the Planning Commission for its study,
consideration and recommendations. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-2-10: RESUBDIVISION OF LAND:
   A.   Procedure For Resubdivision: For any change in a map of an approved or
recorded subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on
such map, area reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it
affects any map or plan legally reached prior to the adoption of any
regulations controlling subdivisions, such parcel shall be approved by the
Planning Commission and City Council by the same procedures, rules and
regulations as for a subdivision.
   B.   Future Resubdivision Indicated: Whenever a parcel of land is laid out
and platted and the subdivision plat shows one or more lots containing more
than one acre of land and there are indications that such lots will eventually
be laid out and platted into small building sites, the Planning Commission may
require that such parcel of land allow for the future opening of streets and
the ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the future
opening and extensions of such streets may be made a requirement of the plat.
(Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-2-11: VACATION OF PLAT:
   A.   Authority: Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated in
compliance with and according to the terms of Utah Code Annotated section 10-9-
808, as amended.
   B.   Approval; Rejection: Such an instrument shall be approved by the
Planning Commission and City Council in like manner as plats of subdivisions.
The City Council may reject any such instrument which abridges or destroys any
public rights in any of its public uses, improvements, streets or alleys.
   C.   Recording; Filing: Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged
or approved, and recorded or filed, in like manner as plats of subdivisions;
and being duly recorded or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect
of the recording of the plat so vacated and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys and public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described
in such plat.
   D.   Effect: When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner
herein provided by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in the execution
of such writing. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-2-12: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT AND CONSOLIDATION OF PARCELS:
   A.   Lot Line Adjustment:
      1.   Petition: Petitions for a lot line adjustment may be approved by the
Planning Commission executed upon the recordation of an appropriate deed if:
         a.   No new lot results from the lot line adjustment.
         b.   The affected property owners adjoining the lot line consent to
the lot line adjustment.
         c.   The lot line adjustment does not result in remnant parcels that
did not previously exist.
         d.   The lot line adjustment does not result in a violation of
applicable zoning codes.
         e.   A subdivision amendment is not required.
      2.   Application: Application materials for the lot line adjustment shall
include the following:
         a.   Completed application signed by all affected property owners.
         b.   Legal descriptions of each parcel involved in the lot line
adjustment.
         c.   Copies of deeds reflecting the new property boundaries.
         d.   One (1) eleven by seventeen (11 x 17) drawing to scale of the
existing plat and one (1) eleven by seventeen (11 x 17) drawing to scale of the
proposed plat. All plats shall show all structures on the property, fence
lines, easements, driveways, and streets, and include a measurement scale.
      3.   Recordation: The lot lines will be adjusted once the owner(s)
records the new deeds reflecting the new parcel boundaries.
      4.   Procedure: For any change in a map of an approved or recorded plat,
if such change affects any street layout shown on such map, area reserved
thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan
legally reached prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions, such parcel shall be approved by the Planning Commission and by
the same procedures, rules and regulations as for a subdivision.
      5.   General: If necessary, the Planning Commission may require the
following additional information:
         a.   A plat (drawn to scale) prepared in ink by a licensed land
surveyor or engineer of a convenient scale not more than one hundred feet to an
inch (1" = 100'), and the sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than one
sheet is used and shall be of such size as is acceptable for filing in the
Office of the County Recorder. The plat shall:
            (1)   Be accompanied by a minimum of seven (7) twenty four inch by
thirty six inch (24" x 36") copies of the plat as described in these
regulations and one reduced eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") copy of
the full size drawings.
            (2)   Be accompanied by an electronic copy in required format.
            (3)   Features: The plat shall contain the following:
               (A) The location of property with respect to surrounding
property and streets, the names of all adjoining property owners of record, or
the names of adjoining developments and the names of adjoining streets.
               (B) The location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the
property to be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot.
               (C) The location of existing streets, easements, water bodies,
streams and other pertinent features such as wetlands, buildings, parks,
cemeteries, drainage ditches, irrigation ditches, fences, bridges, etc., as
determined by the Planning Commission.
               (D) The location, width and details of all existing streets,
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, easements, alleys, other public ways and easements
and street rights-of-way and building setback lines.
               (E) The locations, dimensions and areas of all existing lots,
illustrating their relationship to surrounding properties.
               (F) The name and address of the owner or owners of land to be
resubdivided, lot line adjusted or consolidated, and the name, address and
phone number of the land surveyor or engineer.
               (G) The date of the plat, approximate true north direction,
scale and title of the subdivision.
               (H) Plats shall contain the following notations:
                  (i) Explanation of drainage easements, if any.
                  (ii) Explanation of irrigation easements, if any.
                  (iii) Explanation of site easements, if any.
                  (iv) Explanation of reservations, if any.
      6.   Review: Plats must be presented to the City Recorder at least thirty
(30) days prior to a regular meeting of the commission. This thirty (30) day
period is necessary to allow the Planning Commission and designated consultants
time to review the plat and prepare for its consideration at a regular meeting
held for such purpose.
      7.   Engineering, Legal, And Inspection Fees: The applicant shall pay for
all engineering, legal, and inspection fees associated with the proposed lot
line adjustment.
   B.   Consolidation Of Parcels:
      1.   Upon approval of the Planning Commission, contiguous lots may be
combined to form one development site unless a subdivision amendment is
required. Such lots will be considered consolidated, and shall meet all
requirements concerning parcel consolidation. Once two (2) or more contiguous
parcels have been consolidated, they may not be divided without meeting all
applicable zoning requirements.
      2.   Conditions: A building permit or other approvals from the City shall
not be issued to any new or modified development that is contained within more
than one contiguous legal parcel or subdivision lot unless the parcels are
consolidated into one lot with one tax identification number.
      3.   Application: Application materials for the lot line adjustment shall
include the following:
         a.   Completed application signed by all affected property owners.
         b.   Legal description of the whole piece of property to be
consolidated.
         c.   Copies of deeds reflecting the new property boundaries.
         d.   One (1) eleven by seventeen (11 x 17) drawing to scale of the
existing plat and one (1) eleven by seventeen (11 x 17) drawing to scale of the
proposed plat. All plats shall show all structures on the property, fence
lines, easements, driveways, and streets, and include a measurement scale.
      4.   Recordation: Parcel consolidation shall be accomplished by recording
an appropriate deed with the County Recorder's Office. The new legal
description shall not create a remnant parcel or violate existing zoning
ordinances.
      5.   Exempt: Agricultural operations are exempt from this requirement.
      6.   General: If necessary, the Planning Commission may require the
following additional information:
         a.   A plat (drawn to scale) prepared in ink by a licensed land
surveyor or engineer of a convenient scale not more than one hundred feet to an
inch (1" = 100'), and the sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than one
sheet is used and shall be of such size as is acceptable for filing in the
Office of the County Recorder. The plat shall:
            (1)   Be accompanied by one reduced eleven inch by seventeen inch
(11" x 17") copy of the full size drawings.
            (2)   Be accompanied by an electronic copy in required format.
            (3)   Be presented to the City Recorder at least thirty (30) days
prior to a regular meeting of the commission. This thirty (30) day period is
necessary to allow the Planning Commission and designated consultants time to
review the plat and prepare for its consideration at a regular meeting held for
such purpose.
      7.   Engineering, Legal, And Inspection Fees: The applicant shall pay for
all engineering, legal, and inspection fees associated with the proposed
consolidation of parcels. (Ord. 2009-05, 5-7-2009, eff. 5-7-2009; amd. Ord.
2017-14, 12-7-2017, eff. 12-8-2017; Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-2-13: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2008-13, 9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008)
11-2-14: PUBLIC WORKS STANDARDS:
The public works standards are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out
herein. (Ord. 2002-11, 6-20-2002, eff. 6-20-2002; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2008-13,
9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008)
11-2-15: VALIDITY:
   A.   Any plat of a subdivision filed or recorded without the approvals as
required by this title is void.
   B.   Any sale or transfer of any land in a subdivision not platted in
accordance with the provisions of this title is null and void. (Ord. 2001-02,
3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2008-13, 9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008)
11-2-16: ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Enforcement Officer or building
inspector, as designated by the Mayor or City Manager, to enforce these
regulations and to bring to the attention of the City Attorney any violations
or lack of compliance herewith. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd.
2003 Code; Ord. 2008-13, 9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008)
      2.   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer, sell or offer to sell any such parcel
before a plat of such subdivision has been approved by the Planning Commission
and City Council, in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, and
filed with the County Recorder.
      3.   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land, by the use of
metes and bounds description for the purpose of sale, transfer or lease, with
the intent of evading these regulations, shall not be permitted. All such
described subdivisions shall be subject to all of the requirements contained in
these regulations.
      4.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or parcel of property which has not been
laid out and platted in accordance with this title unless and until all
applicable requirements of this title have been met.
   B.   Inspection:
      1.   Appropriate departments of the City shall inspect or cause to be
inspected all buildings, streets, concrete work, fire hydrants and water
supply, storm drainage, and sewage disposal systems in the course of
construction, installation or repair.
      2.   Excavation for underground improvements shall not be covered or
backfilled until such installation shall have been approved by the City. If any
such installation is covered before being inspected and approved, it shall be
uncovered after notice to uncover has been issued to the responsible person by
the inspector or City Engineer. All other required utilities placed underground
or overhead shall meet all City public works standards as required by franchise
agreements. Funds held in bond or escrow accounts will not be released for any
work which has not been inspected by the appropriate City department. (Ord.
2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2008-13, 9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008)
11-2-17: REMAINDER PARCEL:
A remainder parcel may be allowed on a subdivision plat with the following
conditions:
   A.   The remainder parcel will be identified on the subdivision plat with
the designation of remainder parcel. A note will be placed on the plat with
language that the remainder parcel is subject to the requirements in this
section.
   B.   The remainder parcel will have sufficient area and frontage of the
underlying zone to be developed as a future subdivision lot.
   C.   The remainder parcel is not eligible for any residential building until
a subdivision lot is approved with the required infrastructure improvements.
(Ord. 2017-07, 5-18-2017, eff. 5-19-2017)
11-2-18: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   General: Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall
be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction of any such violation,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Sales Prior To Approval: Any owner or agent of the owner of any land
located in a "subdivision", as defined in this title, who transfers or sells,
or offers to sell any land in the subdivision before a plat of the subdivision
has been approved and recorded as required in this title, is guilty of a Class
C misdemeanor for each lot or parcel transferred or sold and, upon conviction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd. 2003 Code;
Ord. 2008-13, 9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008; Ord. 2017-07, 5-18-2017, eff. 5-19-
2017)
   C.   Exemptions Not Applicable: The description by metes and bounds and the
instrument of transfer or other documents used in the process of selling or
transferring does not exempt the transaction from a violation or from the
penalties or remedies provided for in this title. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff.
3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2008-13, 9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008; Ord. 2017-07, 5-18-
2017, eff. 5-19-2017)
CHAPTER 3
DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS
SECTION:
11-3-1: General Procedure
11-3-2: Administration And Enforcement
11-3-3: Technical Review
11-3-4: Preliminary Plat
11-3-5: Improvement Plans
11-3-6: Final Plat
11-3-7: Signing And Recording Of Subdivision Plat
11-3-8: Minor Subdivision Preliminary/Final Plat
11-3-9:    Agricultural Subdivision Exemption
11-3-1: GENERAL PROCEDURE:
Whenever any subdivision is proposed or created, the owner, or the owner's
authorized agent, shall prepare a plat which shall comply with the rules,
regulations and requirements of this title before:
   A.   It may be filed or recorded in the County Recorder's Office;
   B.   Lots may be sold or offered for sale; and
   C.   Any building permit for the erection of a nonagricultural structure
shall be granted. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-3-2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of this title is to establish
regulations and procedures for the processing and consideration of subdivision
applications.
   B.   Land Use Authority: The Planning Commission is designated as the Land
Use Authority for the approval of lot line adjustments and minor subdivisions.
   C.   Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. The Planning
Commission is designated as the Land Use Authority to interpret this title.
   D.   Fees For Processing Applications:
      1.   Fees for processing applications shall be established by the Plain
City consolidated fee schedule.
      2.   The City may impose additional fees on an applicant equal to the
actual costs of engineering, planning, legal, inspection, or other review of a
subdivision application.
      3.   Neither a preliminary nor final subdivision application shall be
approved or considered complete until the applicant has paid all required fees
to the City.
      4.   Applications that have been deemed complete and have not been
pursued with reasonable diligence before the appropriate board shall expire
after six (6) months. The applicant will have to submit a new application and
fees to restart the process.
   E.   Notice Of Decision: After hearing the evidence and considering the
application, the approving authority (Planning Commission), shall make its
findings and have them entered in the minutes. Upon a decision by the approving
authority, a notice of decision shall be mailed to the applicant at the address
or e-mail address given in the application. A notice of decision can be a
written notice or a copy of the approved minutes. A decision by the approving
authority is final at the time the notice of decision is issued. If a notice of
decision is not sent, the decision shall be final on the date the minutes from
the meeting are approved by the approving authority. The City Recorder shall
also mail notice of any decisions to any person or agency who, in writing,
requested such notification before the decision was rendered. Decisions are
subject to requirements and conditions stated in the staff report and listed in
the meeting minutes.
   F.   Hearing And Publication Notice For The Planning Commission And City
Council: At least ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of which shall be
given of any public hearing before the Planning Commission as per State Code.
(Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017, eff. 12-8-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-3-3: TECHNICAL REVIEW:
   A.   Process: The City periodically hosts a Technical Review Committee (TRC)
meeting. In order for a preliminary plat to be scheduled for a TRC meeting, a
complete preliminary plat application must be received and accepted by the City
prior to a date approximately one month prior to the TRC meeting at which the
applicant desires the project to be discussed. The City Recorder's Office
maintains this schedule.
   B.   Meeting With Representatives: The applicant is provided an opportunity
to meet with representatives from all applicable utilities and other interested
governmental agencies to receive comments regarding the preliminary plat
application. At this meeting, the applicant will also receive written comments
from the City, detailing the extent to which the plans are required to be
revised in order for the City to schedule Land Use Authority consideration of
their application. Extensive revisions caused by the TRC comments or by
voluntary action of the applicant, may require additional TRC meetings.
   C.   Timetables: Critical path preliminary plat processing project
timetables, including monthly preliminary plat application deadlines, TRC
meeting dates, required resubmittal dates and Land Use Authority meeting dates
are established and maintained by the City Recorder's Office.
   D.   TRC Defined: The Technical Review Committee is a committee with
membership determined by the Mayor from time to time. The members of the TRC
may include City staff and officials as well as outside consultants and
professionals on contract with the City. (Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017, eff. 12-8-
2017; amd. Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-3-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   General: The preliminary plat shall be prepared in ink by a licensed
land surveyor or engineer of a convenient scale not more than one hundred feet
to an inch (1" = 100'), and the sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more
than one sheet is used and shall be of such size as is acceptable for filing in
the Office of the County Recorder. The preliminary plat shall:
      1.   Be accompanied by a minimum of seven (7) eleven-inch by seventeen-
inch (11" x 17") copies of the preliminary plat as described in these
regulations and seven (7) eleven-inch by seventeen-inch (11" x 17") sets of
aerial maps, with each set including two (2) maps: one map showing a close up
of the subdivision (with legend included) and the second map showing
approximately one thousand feet (1,000') around the boundaries of the
subdivision in all directions. The applicant must also provide a digital file
of these documents.
      2.   Be presented to the City Recorder at least thirty (30) days prior to
a regular meeting of the commission. This thirty (30) day period is necessary
to allow the Planning Commission and designated consultants time to review the
plat and prepare for its consideration at a regular meeting held for such
purpose.
   B.   Features: The preliminary plat shall contain the following:
      1.   The location of property with respect to surrounding property and
streets, the names of all adjoining property owners of record, or the names of
adjoining developments and the names of adjoining streets.
      2.   The location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the property to
be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot.
      3.   The location of existing streets, easements, water bodies, streams
and other pertinent features such as wetlands, buildings, parks, cemeteries,
drainage ditches, irrigation ditches, fences, bridges, etc., as determined by
the Planning Commission.
      4.   The location, width and details of all existing and proposed
streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, easements, alleys, other public ways and
easements and proposed street rights-of-way and building setback lines.
      5.   The locations, dimensions and areas of all proposed or existing
lots, illustrating their relationship to surrounding properties.
      6.   The location and dimensions of all property proposed to be set aside
for park or playground use, or other public or private reservation, with
designation of the purpose thereof and conditions, if any, of the dedication or
reservation.
      7.   The name and address of the owner or owners of land to be laid out
and platted, the name, address and phone number of the developer if other than
the owner, and the name, address and phone number of the land surveyor or
engineer.
      8.   The date of the plat, approximate true north direction, scale and
title of the subdivision.
      9.   Sufficient data acceptable to the City Engineer to readily determine
the location, bearing and length of all lines, and to reproduce such lines upon
the ground, and the location of all proposed monuments, including contours at
intervals of two feet (2'), five feet (5') or ten feet (10'), as determined by
the City Engineer.
      10.   Name of the subdivision and name and number of all new streets. The
subdivision name must be distinct from any subdivision name on a plat recorded
in the County Recorder's office.
      11.   Indication of the use of any lot (single-family, two-family, multi-
family, townhouse) and all uses other than residential as proposed by the
developer.
      12.   All lots consecutively numbered.
      13.   Existing water supply and sanitary sewage systems.
      14.   Detailed provisions for collecting and discharging surface water
drainage.
      15.   Location and size of all proposed water, secondary water, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, irrigation or drainage ditch piping or other subsurface
improvements as deemed necessary by the City Engineer.
      16.   Preliminary plats shall contain the following notations:
         a.   Explanation of drainage easements, if any.
         b.   Explanation of irrigation easements, if any.
         c.   Explanation of site easements, if any.
         d.   Explanation of reservations, if any.
   C.   Notice To Affected Entities: Within fifteen (15) days after receiving a
complete subdivision application under this Chapter, the Land Use Authority
shall provide written notice of the proposed subdivision to the facility owner
of any water conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within one
hundred feet (100') of the subdivision plat. To determine whether any water
conveyance facility is located within one hundred feet (100') of a proposed
subdivision, the Land Use Authority shall review information:
      1.   From the facility owner under Utah Code §10-9a-211, using mapping-
grade global positioning satellite units or digitized data from the most recent
aerial photo available to the facility owner;
      2.   From the state engineer's inventory of canals; or
      3.   From a licensed surveyor who has consulted with a representative of
an existing water conveyance facility that services an area near the land the
application concerns.
   D.   Preliminary Approval: After the Planning Commission has reviewed the
preliminary plat, the report from the City staff and any Municipal
recommendations, the applicant shall be advised of any required changes and/or
additions. The commission shall then approve, table, conditionally approve or
disapprove the preliminary plat. A notice of decision will be sent to the
developer outlining the decision of the Planning Commission. Before the
commission approves a preliminary plat showing park reservation or land for
other City use proposed to be dedicated to the City, the developer shall obtain
approval of the park or land reservation from the City Council.
   E.   Effective Periods Of Preliminary Approval: The approval of a
preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of twelve (12) months only
from the date of approval. Any plat not receiving final approval within the
period of time set forth herein shall be null and void, and the developer shall
be required to resubmit a new plat for preliminary approval subject to all new
zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations then in existence. Preliminary
approval of any undeveloped phases of a phased subdivision shall become null
and void should more than two (2) years elapse between the date of conditional
acceptance of the off site improvements of the last phase by the City and the
application for final approval of a subsequent phase. Extensions of time up to
twelve (12) months may be granted upon application and approval from the
Planning Commission.
   F.   Zoning Regulations: Every plat shall conform to existing zoning
regulations and subdivision regulations applicable at the time of proposed
final approval, except that any plat which has received preliminary approval
shall be exempt from any subsequent amendments to the zoning ordinance
rendering the plat nonconforming as to bulk or use; provided, that final
approval is obtained within a period of six (6) months from the date of such
approval.
   G.   Grading Limitation: No large scale excavation, grading or regrading as
determined by the Planning Commission shall take place on any land for which a
preliminary subdivision plan has been submitted until such plan has been given
preliminary approval by the Planning Commission.
   H.   Denial Of Approval: The lack of information under any item specified
herein, or improper information supplied by the applicant, shall be cause of
disapproval of a preliminary plan. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd.
Ord. 2006-12, 6-15-2006, eff. 6-15-2006; Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017, eff. 12-8-
2017; Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-3-5: IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
Improvement plans shall be prepared for all required improvements. Plans shall
be drawn at a scale of not more than fifty feet to an inch (1" = 50'), and map
sheets shall be of the same size as the preliminary plan. The following shall
be shown:
   A.   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along centerlines of
all roads. Where a proposed road intersects an existing road or roads, the
elevation along the centerline of the existing road or roads within one hundred
feet (100') of the intersection, shall be shown. Approximate radii of all
curves, lengths of tangents, and central angles on all streets.
   B.   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross sections of
street pavements, including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage easements,
rights-of-way, irrigation ditches, manholes and catch basins; the location of
street signs; the location, size and invert elevations of existing and proposed
sanitary sewers, stormwater drains and fire hydrants, showing connection to any
existing or proposed utility systems; and exact location and size of all water,
gas, sewer, secondary water, cable TV, or other underground utilities or
structures.
   C.   Location, size, elevation and other appropriate description of any
existing facilities or utilities, including, but not limited to, existing
streets, sewers, drains, water mains, easements, fences, street lights, water
bodies, streams, wetlands, irrigation and drain ditches and any other pertinent
features at the point of connection to proposed facilities and utilities within
the subdivision.
   D.   All specifications and references required by the City's public works
standards, including a site grading plan for the entire subdivision when
required by the City Engineer.
   E.   Improvement plans must include the following documents:
      1.   A geotechnical soils report prepared within the last six months from
the date of application in accordance with the City’s Public Works Standards.
      2.   A traffic study when required by the Public Works Director or
designee or the City Engineer or designee.
      3.   Any necessary agreements with adjacent property owners regarding
storm drainage, utility provisions, access, or other matters pertinent to
subdivision approval.
   F.   All improvement plans shall be prepared and stamped by a civil
engineer, registered in the State. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd.
Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017, eff. 12-8-2017; Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-3-6: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   General: The final plat shall consist of a sheet of approved Mylar.
Size of drawings shall be twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36")
with a one-half inch (1/2") border on top, bottom and right side. The left side
shall have a border of one and one-half inches (11/2"). The plat shall be so
drawn that the top of the drawing faces either north or west, whichever best
accommodates the drawing. All lines, dimensions and markings shall be made on
the Mylar with approved waterproof black India drawing ink. The plat shall be
made to a scale large enough to clearly show all details, in any case not
smaller than one hundred feet to the inch (1" = 100'), and workmanship on the
finished drawing shall be neat, clean cut and readable. The plat shall contain
the following information:
      1.   The subdivision name approved by the Planning Commission, and the
general location of the subdivision, in bold letters at the top of the sheet.
      2.   A north point and scale of the drawing, and the date.
      3.   Accurately drawn boundaries, showing the property bearings and
dimensions of all boundary lines of the subdivision; properly tied to public
survey monuments. These lines should be slightly heavier than street and lot
lines.
      4.   The address or name, width, lengths, bearings and curve data on
centerlines of proposed streets, alleys and easements; also the boundaries,
bearings and dimensions of all portions within the subdivision, as intended to
be dedicated to the use of the public; and the lines, dimensions, bearings and
numbers of all lots. All proposed streets shall be numbered or named in
accordance with the adopted addressing system of the City.
      5.   The standard forms approved by the Planning Commission lettered for
the following:
         a.   Description of land to be included in a subdivision.
         b.   Registered land surveyor's "certificate of survey" as described
in Utah Code §10-9a-603(6)(c).
         c.   Owner's dedication and acknowledgment.
         d.   If the plat is to be a part of a community association, an
instrument conveying to the association all common areas.
         e.   Notary public's acknowledgment.
         f.   Certificate of approval by the Planning Commission.
         g.   Certificate of approval by the City Engineer.
         h.   Certificate of approval by the City Attorney.
         i.   Certificate of acceptance by the City Council, attested by the
City Recorder.
      6.   A three inch by three inch (3" x 3") space in the lower right hand
corner of the drawing for County recording information.
   B.   Preparation: The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land
surveyor licensed by the State.
   C.   City Recorder: Plats must be presented to the City Recorder at least
thirty (30) days prior to the meeting at which final approval is sought or
contemplated.
   D.   Requirements For Final Approval:
      1.   Materials Needed For Approval: Final approval of the final plat may
not be granted until the following materials are submitted to the Planning
Commission:
         a.   A minimum of seven (7) eleven-inch by seventeen-inch (11" X 17")
copies of the final plat and three (3) copies of the improvement plans, as
described in these regulations, which comply in all respects with the
preliminary plan, as approved, and which have been reviewed and approved by the
City Engineer;
         b.   All formal irrevocable offers of dedication to the public of all
streets, City uses, utilities, parks and easements in a form approved by the
City Attorney;
         c.   Written assurance from the public utility companies and
improvement districts that necessary utilities will be installed and proof that
the applicant has submitted petitions in writing for the creation or extension
of any improvement districts as required by the Planning Commission upon
preliminary plan approval;
      2.   Final Approval By Planning Commission: The Planning Commission shall
take action on the final plat after the applicant has satisfied the preliminary
plat approval conditions. The City Engineer will provide a recommendation prior
to being placed on the Planning Commission agenda. The Planning Commission
shall recommend to the City Council the approval, conditional approval or
disapproval of the final plat within thirty (30) days after the date the plat
is submitted to the Planning Commission. The commission shall set forth in
detail any conditions to which the recommendation is made or reason for its
recommendation. The subdivision plat shall then be forwarded to the City
Council for their approval. Requests to extend final approvals shall be
conducted at six (6) month intervals for a total of eighteen (18) months.
   E.   The developer shall have a period of six (6) months to conduct a pre-
construction meeting with City staff and start construction of the
infrastructure within the development. If such work has not been completed the
developer must file a request to extend the time for installation of
improvements.
      1.   Completion Of Improvements Determination By City Council: Upon
receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City Council shall
consider the recommendation at a regularly scheduled City Council meeting and
shall approve, modify and approve, or disapprove the final plat by resolution
which shall set forth in detail any conditions to which the approval is subject
or reasons for disapproval. In no event shall the period of time stipulated by
the City Council for completion of required improvements exceed two (2) years
from the date the final plat is recorded as identified in chapter 4 of this
title. A notice of decision will be sent as identified in subsection
11-3-2E of this chapter.
      2.   Materials Testing: The developer shall be responsible for payment of
materials testing required by the City Engineer during construction of
subdivision improvements.
      3.   Plat Approval Required: No street improvements or utilities shall be
installed until after approval of the final plat by the City Council and
recordation thereof. No lots included in such plat shall be purchased, sold,
exchanged, nor offered for sale or exchange; and no construction of buildings
upon such lots shall begin until the final plat is so approved and recorded.
(Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-05, 6-3-2004, eff. 6-3-
2004; Ord. 2006-12, 6-15-2006, eff. 6-15-2006; Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017, eff.
12-8-2017; Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-3-7: SIGNING AND RECORDING OF SUBDIVISION PLAT:
   A.   Signing Of Plat: When a bond or escrow is required, the Mayor shall
endorse approval on the plat after the bond or escrow has been approved by the
City Attorney and all the conditions of this resolution pertaining to the plat
have been satisfied.
   B.   Recording Of Plat: The City shall record the plat after all required
signatures are obtained. At the same time, the City shall also record all
dedications, covenants and lien agreements as the City shall require to be
recorded from time to time.
   C.   Final Plat; Time Limit For Recording: Any final plat having received
final approval shall be offered for recording within one year (365 days) after
final approval. If a final plat is not offered for recording within one year
(365 days) after final approval, final approval shall be considered null and
void, and the developer must resubmit the final plat for recommendation by the
Planning Commission and approval by the City Council.
   D.   Phasing: Subdivisions containing more than thirty (30) lots shall be
done in phases. When phasing a subdivision, a second access known as a standard
residential road (sixty foot (60') right of way at minimum) providing ingress
and egress for a proposed subdivision shall be required when more than thirty
(30) lots are gaining access from a single access, and must be calculated in
combination with any and all planned or existing lots or subdivisions using the
same access. Each phase must be approved by the Planning Commission and shall
consist of that number of lots that can be completely developed with off site
improvements within a two (2) year period. "Off site improvements" are
construed to be those improvements required by the City public works standards.
"On site improvements" shall be construed to mean the construction of the
dwelling and its appurtenant improvements on each lot. The development of the
subdivision shall be in an orderly manner and all said off site improvements
will be made available for the full, effective and practical use and enjoyment
thereof by lessees or grantees of any of the lands located within the
subdivision within the time hereinafter specified. Phases shall be designed to
minimize the dead ending of streets and water lines. Phasing shall be done in
such a manner as to provide sufficient traffic circulation in each of the
phases. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017,
eff. 12-8-2017; Ord. 2024-06, 6-6-2024)
11-3-8: MINOR SUBDIVISION PRELIMINARY/FINAL PLAT:
   A.   General: The preliminary/final plat size of drawings shall be twenty
four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") with a one-half inch (1/2") border
on top, bottom and right side. The left side shall have a border of one and
one-half inches (11/2"). The plat shall be so drawn that the top of the drawing
faces either north or west, whichever best accommodates the drawing. The plat
shall be made to a scale large enough to clearly show all details, in any case
not smaller than one hundred feet to the inch (1" = 100'), and workmanship on
the finished drawing shall be neat, clean cut and readable. The plat shall
contain the following information:
      1.   The subdivision name approved by the Planning Commission and the
general location of the subdivision, in bold letters at the top of the sheet.
      2.   A north point and scale of the drawing, and the date.
      3.   Accurately drawn boundaries, showing the property bearings and
dimensions of all boundary lines of the subdivision; properly tied to public
survey monuments. These lines should be slightly heavier than street and lot
lines.
      4.   The address, width, lengths, bearings and curve data on centerlines
of proposed streets, alleys and easements; also the boundaries, bearings and
dimensions of all portions within the subdivision, as intended to be dedicated
to the use of the public; and the lines, dimensions, bearings and numbers of
all lots. All proposed streets shall be numbered in accordance with the adopted
addressing system of the City.
      5.   The standard forms approved by the Planning Commission lettered for
the following:
         a.   Description of land to be included in a subdivision.
         b.   Registered land surveyor's "certificate of survey".
         c.   Owner's dedication and acknowledgment.
         d.   Notary public's acknowledgment.
         e.   Certificate of approval by the Planning Commission.
         f.   Certificate of approval by the City Engineer.
         g.   Certificate of approval by the City Attorney.
      6.   A three inch by three inch (3" x 3") space in the lower right hand
corner of the drawing for County recording information.
   B.   Preparation: The preliminary/final plat shall be prepared by a
registered land surveyor licensed by the State.
   C.   City Recorder: Plats must be presented to the City Recorder at least
thirty (30) days prior to the meeting at which preliminary/final approval is
sought or contemplated. Note: This will result in the applicant being added to
the Planning Commission's list of unscheduled items. This is done on a first
come, first served basis. The Planning Commission may limit the number of items
on an upcoming agenda.
   D.   Requirements For Final Approval:
      1.   Materials Needed For Approval: Final approval of the final plat may
not be granted until the following materials are submitted to the Planning
Commission:
         a.   A minimum of seven (7) eleven-inch by seventeen-inch (11" x 17")
copies of the preliminary/final plat, as described in these regulations, which
comply in all respects with the preliminary/final plat, as approved, and which
have been reviewed and approved by the City Engineer;
         b.   An electronic copy of the plat in required format;
         c.   All formal irrevocable offers of dedication to the public of all
streets, City uses, utilities, parks and easements in a form approved by the
City Attorney;
         d.   Written assurance from the public utility companies and
improvement districts that necessary utilities will be installed and proof that
the applicant has submitted petitions in writing for the creation or extension
of any improvement districts as required by the Planning Commission upon
preliminary plan approval;
         e.   A deferral agreement signed prior to receiving final approval
from the Planning Commission;
         f.   All required application processing and review fees have been
paid to the City.
   E.   Preliminary/Final Approval By Planning Commission: In one meeting, the
Planning Commission may grant preliminary/final approval. The City Engineer
will provide a recommendation prior to being placed on the Planning Commission
agenda. The commission shall set forth in detail any conditions to which the
recommendation is made or reason for its decision.
   F.   Materials Testing: The developer shall be responsible for payment of
materials testing required by the City Engineer during construction of
subdivision improvements.
   G.   Plat Approval Required: No street improvements or utilities shall be
installed until after approval of the final plat and recordation thereof. No
lots included in such plat shall be purchased, sold, exchanged, nor offered for
sale or exchange; and no construction of buildings upon such lots shall begin
until the final plat is so approved and recorded.
   H.   Mylar Copy: Mylar copy of the approved subdivision plat needs to be
submitted for signatures. All lines, dimensions and markings shall be made on
the mylar with approved waterproof black india drawing ink.
   I.   Electronic Copy Of Signed Plat Required: An electronic copy of the
signed plat shall be submitted to the City in the required format.
   J.   Conditions Completed: All conditions associated with preliminary and
final approval must be completed prior to the issuance of building permits.
(Ord. 2013-11, 10-3-2013, eff. 10-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017, eff.
12-8-2017; Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-3-9: AGRICULTURAL SUBDIVISION EXEMPTION:
   A.   Applications to subdivide agricultural land are exempt from the plat
requirements of this Chapter if the applications meet the relevant requirements
in Utah Code §10-9a-605(2).   
   B.   Notwithstanding clause A, the boundaries of each lot or parcel in the
agricultural subdivision shall be graphically illustrated on a record of survey
map that, after receiving both a preliminary and final approval in accordance
with this Chapter, shall be recorded with the County Recorder.
   C.   If a lot or parcel exempted under this Section is used for a
nonagricultural purpose, the Planning Commission may require the plat
requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 4
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Improvements And Guarantee
11-4-2: Inspection Of Improvements
11-4-3: Acceptance Of Off Site Improvements
11-4-4: Special Exception For Sidewalk
11-4-5: Issuance Of Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
11-4-1: IMPROVEMENTS AND GUARANTEE:
   A.   Methods For Installation: The owner of any land which has been laid
out, platted and recorded pursuant to the provisions of this title shall at his
own expense install the required improvements within a period of two (2) years
from the date the final plat is recorded. Said owner shall guarantee the
installation of such improvements by one of the following methods designated by
the City:
      1.   Deposit In Escrow: The developer will deposit in escrow with an
escrow holder approved by the City Council an amount of money equal to the cost
of improvements required plus ten percent (10%) as estimated by the developer
and approved by the City Engineer under an escrow agreement conditioned for the
installation of said improvements within two (2) years from the date the final
plat is recorded. The escrow agreement aforesaid shall be approved by the City
Council and City Attorney and shall be filed with the City Recorder. The ten
percent (10%) improvement guarantee amount will be held for one year beyond the
date of conditional final acceptance of improvements.
      2.   Financial Institution Bond - An agreement with a financial
institution federally or state insured to release certain construction funds
upon approval by the City. The amount of the bond shall be equal to the cost of
improvements required plus ten percent (10%) as estimated by the developer and
approved by the City Engineer conditioned for the installation of said
improvements within two (2) years from the date the final plat is recorded. The
ten percent (10%) improvement guarantee amount will be held for one year beyond
the date of conditional final acceptance of improvements.
   B.   Default: In the event the developer defaults, fails or neglects to
satisfactorily install the required improvements within two (2) years from the
date the final plat is recorded, the City may declare the escrow deposit
forfeited, and the City may install or cause the required improvements to be
installed using the proceeds from the collection of the escrow to defray the
expense thereof. The developer may apply to the Plain City Council for an
extension of time of one year, with additional one year extensions after the
first extension. The Plain City Council may grant this request upon proof of
difficulty. Said extensions shall be subject to adequate security for the
completion of said improvements being made by increasing the amount of the
escrow account, if necessary. The City Council may require certain improvements
to be completed before an extension is allowed. (Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017, eff.
12-8-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-06, 4-6-2023, eff. 4-6-2023; Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-4-2: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   General Procedure: The City Public Works Director, or the City
Engineer, shall provide the inspection of required improvements during
construction and ensure their satisfactory completion. If they find, upon
inspection, that any of the required improvements have not been constructed in
accordance with the City's construction standards and specifications, the
applicant shall be responsible for completing the improvements.
   B.   Reduction Of Escrow Funds: The City shall not release nor reduce escrow
funds on any required improvement until the developer provides a statement for
monies requested, signed by the City Engineer and or City Public Works Director
noting the improvements have been satisfactorily completed. In no event shall
escrow funds be reduced below ten percent (10%) of the principal amount.
   C.   Punch List Items: The City Inspector will complete final inspection and
produce a punch list of items that need to be completed or replaced before the
Project/subdivision will be granted conditional final by city council. Once
developer/contractor receives the punch list from the city all items listed
will need to be completed within sixty (60) days. After the sixty (60) days the
punch list will be null-and-void and a new final inspection and punch list will
be issued for items needing fixed or completed. Same procedure for final
acceptance, will start eleven (11) months later. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff.
3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2010-03, 8-5-2010, eff. 8-6-2010; Ord. 2022-04, 3-17-2022,
eff. 3-17-2022)
11-4-3: ACCEPTANCE OF OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Conditional Acceptance: After the completion of all offsite
improvements and upon receiving a written statement from the City Engineer that
all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed, the City Council
shall conditionally accept the improvements for a one-year guarantee period.
Such approval shall not be given until the applicant's engineer has certified
to the City Engineer, through submission of detailed as built construction
plans of the subdivision, indicating location, dimensions, materials and other
information required by the City Engineer, that the layout of the line and
grade of all public improvements is in accordance with the construction plans
filed with the final plat. Said as built plans shall be submitted in ink on
reproducible Mylar. A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total principal
amount of the escrow funds will be held during this one-year guarantee period.
   B.   Guarantee Period: The developer shall warrant and guarantee that the
improvements provided for hereunder and every part thereof will remain in good
condition for a period of one year after the date of conditional acceptance by
the City, and agree to make all repairs to maintain the improvements and every
part thereof in good condition during the guarantee period at no cost to the
City. The guarantee shall extend to and include, but shall not be limited to,
the entire street, subgrade base and surface, all pipes, curbs, gutters,
approaches, sidewalks, fences, and other accessories that are or may be
affected by the construction operations. Whenever in the judgment of the City
Public Works Director and/or City Engineer, said work shall be in need of
repair, maintenance or rebuilding, he shall cause a written notice to be served
upon the developer, and thereupon the developer shall undertake and complete
such repairs, maintenance or rebuilding. The determination of the necessity for
repairs and maintenance of the work rests with the City Engineer and/or City
Public Works Director whose decision upon the matter shall be final and binding
upon the developer. Upon the developer's failure to perform the required repair
work within sixty (60) days from the date of service of such written notice,
the City shall have such repairs made, and the cost of such repairs shall be
paid for by use of the ten percent (10%) guarantee funds.
   C.   Final Acceptance: Except for sidewalks and seal coat, final inspection
by the City Public Works Director shall be made eleven (11) months after
conditional acceptance or as close as weather conditions permit. All defects as
noted in the final inspection report of the engineer shall be corrected to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer and/or City Public Works Director. Final
acceptance shall be in writing by the City Council after written approval is
received from the City Engineer. After final acceptance by the City Council the
remaining balance in the Escrow Fund shall be released. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-5-
2010, eff. 8-6-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-04, 3-17-2022, eff. 3-17-2022)
11-4-4: SPECIAL EXCEPTION FOR SIDEWALK:
   A.   Conditional Acceptance: The City Council, in its discretion, may allow
the developer an additional one year time period from the date of conditional
acceptance of the off site improvements to install the sidewalks in the
subdivision; provided, that:
      1.   The subdivision does not front on a major street where installation
of the sidewalks is necessary for the safety of the general citizenry;
      2.   All lots built on in the subdivision have sidewalks installed on the
lots where shown on the construction plan;
      3.   Sidewalk must be installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for any dwelling in the subdivision;
      4.   No more than seventy five percent (75%) of the lots are built on in
the subdivision. When the percentage of lots built on exceeds seventy five
percent (75%), the sidewalks must be installed before any additional building
permits are issued;
      5.   The City shall not conditionally accept any of the sidewalks prior
to the installation of all the sidewalks required in the subdivision;
      6.   The City retain ten percent (10%) of the escrow funds for the
sidewalks until it receives final acceptance by the City Council.
   B.   Guarantee Period: The developer shall warrant and guarantee that the
sidewalk will remain in good condition for a period of twelve (12) months after
the date of conditional acceptance by the City Council and shall make all
repairs to and maintain the sidewalk in good condition during the guarantee
period at no cost to the City. The determination of the necessity for repairs
and maintenance or work rests with the City Engineer, whose decision upon the
matter shall be final and binding on the developer.
   C.   Final Acceptance: Final acceptance of the sidewalk will follow the same
procedure as outlined in subsection 11-4-3C of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-
1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-4-5: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Street And Water Improvements: The extent of street and water
improvements shall be adequate for vehicular access by the prospective
occupancy, building contractors, police, ambulance, and fire equipment prior to
the issuance of a building permit. For purposes of this section, "adequate"
shall mean grading, subgrade preparation, installation of road base on streets,
and installation of all water mains, valves, hydrants and other appurtenances
for the water system. (Ord. 2006-05, 1-19-2006, eff. 1-19-2006)
   B.   Public Safety Improvements: Certificates of occupancy will not be
issued on any home within a subdivision prior to the fencing or piping of all
ditches, as required by the final plat approval, or installation of any
improvements determined to be necessary for public safety, in complete and
satisfactory condition as determined by the City Engineer. (Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-
2017, eff. 12-8-2017)
   C.   Public Improvements: No building permit shall be issued nor escrows or
bonds released for the final ten percent (10%) of lots in a subdivision, or if
ten percent (10%) is less than two (2), for the final two (2) lots of a
subdivision, until all public improvements required by the City Council for the
plat have been fully completed and conditionally accepted by the City Council.
(Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, RESERVATIONS AND DESIGN
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Improvements
11-5-2: Lot Improvements
11-5-3: Streets
11-5-4: Drainage And Storm Sewers
11-5-5: Subsurface Drainage
11-5-6: Water Facilities
11-5-7: Secondary Water System
11-5-8: Sewerage Facilities
11-5-9: Sidewalks
11-5-10: Curb And Gutter
11-5-11: Utilities
11-5-12: Public Uses
11-5-13: Irrigation Water
11-5-14: Preservation Of Natural Features And Amenities
11-5-15: Nonresidential Subdivision
11-5-16: Street Lighting
11-5-17: Street Signs
11-5-18: Rural Residential Subdivisions
11-5-19: Cul-De-Sac Special Exceptions
11-5-1: GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Conformance To Applicable Rules And Regulations: In addition to the
requirements established herein, all subdivision plats shall comply with the
following laws, rules and regulations:
      1.   All applicable statutory provisions;
      2.   The City zoning ordinance, Building and Housing Codes and all other
applicable laws of the City;
      3.   The General Plan, official street map and capital facilities plan of
the City (as may be applicable), including all streets, drainage systems and
parks shown on the official street map or General Plan as adopted;
      4.   The special requirements of these regulations and any rules of the
Health Department and/or appropriate State agencies;
      5.   The rules of the State Highway Department if the subdivision or any
lot contained therein abuts a State highway;
      6.   The City public works standards and technical specifications.
   B.   Monuments: The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments in
the subdivision as required herein and as approved by the City Engineer.
      1.   Monuments shall be located on street right-of-way centerlines, at
street intersections, and at such other points as determined necessary by the
City Engineer.
      2.   All monuments shall be set in an approved ground box as specified in
the public works standards for the City.
      3.   All monuments shall be properly set in the ground by the developer
and approved by the City Engineer prior to the time the City Council grants
conditional acceptance of the subdivision. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-
2001)
   C.   Character Of The Land: Land which the Planning Commission finds to be
unsuitable for subdivision or development due to flooding, wetlands, improper
drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth formations or
topography, utility easements or other such features which will be reasonably
harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of the present or future
inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding areas, shall not be laid
out or platted or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by the
developer and approved by the Planning Commission and City Council, upon
recommendation of the City Engineer, to solve the problems created by the
unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall be set aside for uses as shall not
involve such a danger. Title 10, chapter 18, "Sensitive Land Use", of this Code
shall be applied in these instances. (Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017, eff. 12-8-2017)
   D.   Soils Condition: Buildings or structures shall not be situated on soft
or unsuitable soils, as determined by the City Engineer, where there is a high
water table, or a site subject to flooding as noted on the City's floodplain
map, or on uncompacted fill in accordance with the City public works standards.
   E.   Subdivision Name: The proposed name of the subdivision shall not
duplicate or too closely approximate phonetically the name of any other
subdivision in the County. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-5-2: LOT IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Lot Arrangement: The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be
no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning
ordinance and health regulations and in providing driveway access to buildings
on such lots from an approved street.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards
of the zoning ordinance. Where lots are more than double the minimum required
area for the zoning district, the Planning Commission may require that such
lots be arranged so as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future
streets where they would be necessary to serve such potential lots, all in
compliance with the zoning ordinance and these regulations. In general, side
lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines (or radial to curving street
lines) unless variation from this rule will give a better street to allow for
erection of buildings, observing the minimum front yard and side setbacks from
both streets. Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for business,
commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off
street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use and
development contemplated, as established in the zoning ordinance; all property
located within a subdivision shall be included within the boundaries of a road,
lot or other improved area such that no parts or parcels of land therein remain
unusable.
   C.   Double/Reversed Frontage Lots And Access To Lots:
      1.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage and reversed frontage lots
shall be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of residential
development from streets or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography
and orientation, as determined by the Planning Commission.
      2.   Access From Arterial Streets: Lots should not, in general, derive
access exclusively from an arterial street. Where driveway access from a
primary or secondary arterial street may be necessary for several adjoining
lots, the Planning Commission may require that such lots be served by a
combined access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazards on such
street. Where possible, driveways should be designed and arranged so as to
avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on major streets.
   D.   R Lots: All R lots shall be clearly identified on the recorded plat and
on a recordable instrument in form acceptable to the City. The instrument shall
be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder at the time the final plat is
recorded in order to provide notice to potential lot purchasers of the
existence of limitations imposed upon R lot development. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-
2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
   E.   Flag Lots:
      1.   The City does not favor flag lots. Flag lots shall not be created by
subdividing property. Flag lots will only be permitted in the case of existing
landlocked property and in conformance with the City's zoning regulations; such
use qualifies as an established conditional use as set out herein.
      2.   A flag lot may be approved as a conditional use by the Planning
Commission, after determining that due to topographic conditions, sensitive
land concerns, or other requirements of this chapter, streets cannot or should
not be extended to access substantial buildable areas that would otherwise
comply with the minimum lot standards. Also, the following criteria must be
met:
         a.   Only one single-family dwelling may be constructed as a main use
on a flag lot;
         b.   The minimum lot area, exclusive of the access stem, shall be one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the minimum lot area required in the
zoning district;
         c.   The width of the access stem shall be at least thirty feet (30')
with a paved, the pavement being asphalt or concrete to meet Plain City public
works standards, twenty foot (20') wide driveway and a minimum five foot (5')
wide landscaped buffer on each side of the driveway. The buffer area is
provided to help screen adjacent properties and to provide a drainage area for
the paved portion of the access strip. The construction of the stem landscaping
and improvements shall be completed prior to issuance of building permit;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1313.gif]
 
(Ord. 2008-13, 9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008)
         d.   An asphalt or concrete turnaround shall be required at the end of
the stem. The asphalt or concrete shall meet current Plain City public works
standards; (Ord. 2016-03, 5-5-2016, eff. 5-5-2016)
         e.   Approved street numbers shall be located in such a manner as to
be plainly visible and legible from the street fronting the lot; (Ord. 2008-13,
9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008)
         f.   A six foot (6') privacy fence as approved by the Planning
Commission beginning at forty feet (40') from the right-of-way setback on the
stem and along the front of the flag lot will be required and any other fencing
as required by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2009-07, 8-20-2009, eff. 8-20-
2009)
   F.   Debris And Waste: No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones,
soil, junk, rubbish or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried on any
land, or left or deposited on any lot or street at the time of conditional
acceptance of the subdivision by the City Council, and removal of the same
shall be required prior to final acceptance by the City Council. (Ord. 2008-13,
9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008)
   G.   Fencing: Each developer shall be required to furnish and install fences
wherever the Planning Commission determines that a hazardous condition or
incompatibilities in land use may exist on a lot. The fences shall be
constructed according to the Plain City public works standard and shall be
noted as to height and material on the final construction plans. Before any
improvements begin on the subdivision, a fence needs to be installed around all
surrounding agricultural property boundaries. (Ord. 2009-07, 8-20-2009, eff. 8-
20-2009)
   H.   Staking Of Lots: Permanent corner markers shall be placed at all rear
lot corners to completely identify the lot boundaries on the ground. Front lot
corners shall be identified with permanent reference plugs or nails in the
concrete curb. All lot corner markers must be in place prior to the issuance of
building permits and after the completion of all subdivision improvements. All
lot corners shall be designated in accordance with State/County survey laws.
(Ord. 2008-13, 9-19-2008, eff. 9-19-2008)
11-5-3: STREETS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Frontage On Improved Streets:
         a.   No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be laid out
and platted shall have frontage on and access from an improved and dedicated
City street, unless the street is an existing State or County road.
         b.   Wherever the area to be laid out and platted is to utilize
existing street frontage, such street shall be fully improved as required by
the public works standards unless otherwise provided for by the City Council
after a recommendation from the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017,
eff. 12-8-2017)
         c.   Access to subdivisions must be from an existing, maintained
public roadway of sufficient width and improvement to meet minimum requirements
for the assurance of public safety as determined by the City Engineer, Sheriff
and Fire Departments. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Grading And Improvement Plan: Streets shall be graded and improved
and conform to the City public works standards and shall be approved as to
design and specifications by the City Engineer, in accordance with the
construction plans required to be submitted prior to final plat approval.
      3.   Topography And Arrangement:
         a.   Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. All
streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the building
sites at or above the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall conform as
closely as possible to the original topography. A combination of steep grades
and curves shall be avoided. Specific standards are contained in the public
works standards of the City.
         b.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of-way established on the
official map and/or General Plan. Such integration shall take topographical
conditions into consideration. The street arrangements shall not cause
unnecessary hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own
land and seek to provide convenient access to it.
            (1)   Half streets proposed along a subdivision boundary or within
any part of a subdivision shall not be permitted.
            (2)   Standard residential streets shall approach the arterial or
collector streets at an angle of not less than eighty degrees (80°).
         c.   All streets shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches and
shopping centers; to population density and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
         d.   Minor streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible to
the topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient
drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets
necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-
1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
         e.   Plain City may require selected streets within a subdivision to
be extended to the boundary lines of the subdivision. All streets required to
be extended to the boundary lines of the subdivision shall be properly
terminated with a temporary turnaround constructed in accordance with current
public works standards or as approved by Plain City. However, in all cases, the
temporary turnaround shall have sufficient stability to support snowplows,
emergency vehicles, school buses and trash collection trucks. If the terminal
street extends no more than the length of one lot beyond the nearest
intersection, the City Council after a recommendation from the Planning
Commission may waive the turnaround requirement as stated herein. If the
temporary turnaround is located on an adjacent property an agreement between
the two (2) property owners and the City is required. (Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017,
eff. 12-8-2017)
         f.   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, and
the provision for alleys, truck loading and maneuvering areas, walks and
parking areas so as to minimize conflict or movement between the various types
of traffic, including pedestrian.
         g.   All streets in City subdivisions shall be dedicated to the City,
except that private streets may be approved under special circumstances as
determined by the Planning Commission.
         h.   Arterial, collector and/or residential streets shall conform to
the width designated on the Master Street Plan whenever a subdivision falls in
an area for which a Master Street Plan has been adopted. For territory where
such street plan has not been completed at the time the preliminary plat is
submitted to the Planning Commission, arterial or collector streets shall be
provided as required by the City public works standards.
         i.   Standard residential streets shall have a minimum width of sixty
feet (60'). (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
         j.   Cul-de-sacs shall be not longer than four hundred feet (400') to
the beginning of the turnaround, from the centerline of the intersecting
street. Each cul-de-sac must be terminated by a turnaround of not less than
ninety seven feet (97') to back of curb (TBC) in diameter. If surface water
drainage is directed into the turnaround, due to the grade of the street,
necessary catch basins and drainage easements shall be provided. (Ord. 2016-03,
5-5-2016, eff. 5-5-2016)
         k.   Cul-de-sac Special Exceptions:
            (1)   Cul-de-sacs may be granted an exception as to length if, in
addition to the guideline standards above, all of the following criteria are
met: Reference
11-5-19
               (A)   The maximum cul-de-sac length with a special exception
extension will be no more than 600 feet.
               (B)   The property to be subdivided is an infill and surrounded
by developed subdivisions.
               (C)   If a special exception is granted, the number of lots on
the cul-de-sac may be up to 12.
         l.   Utility and drainage easements shall be provided along lot lines
of all subdivision lots and at such other locations as deemed necessary and as
directed by the City. The easements shall have a minimum width of ten feet
(10'), but may encumber adjoining lots by extending across adjoining lot lines.
In some cases, larger size easements may be required as directed by the City.
Proper coordination shall be established between the developer and the
applicable utility company for the establishment of utility easements on
adjoining properties.
         m.   Standard street sections and all proposed streets, whether public
or private shall conform to the street cross section standards as recommended
by the City Engineer and adopted by the City Council.
         n.   Streets shall be numbered unless the Planning Commission
determines, based upon topography and other like considerations, that streets
should be named.
      4.   Blocks:
         a.   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers
of lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width may be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, waterways or topography
concerns.
         b.   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but
block lengths in residential areas shall not exceed one thousand three hundred
twenty feet (1,320') or twelve (12) times the minimum lot width required in the
zoning district, whichever is less, nor be less than four hundred feet (400')
in length. Wherever practicable, blocks along major streets and collector
streets shall be not less than six hundred sixty feet (660') in length.
         c.   In long blocks, the Planning Commission may require the
reservation of an easement through the block to accommodate utilities, drainage
facilities or pedestrian traffic.
         d.   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks, not less than six feet (6') wide,
may be required by the Planning Commission through the center of blocks more
than eight hundred feet (800') long where deemed essential to provide
circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation
or other community facilities.
         e.   To prevent landlocked property, the City Council and/or Planning
Commission may require additional access roads.
      5.   Access To Major Streets: Where a subdivision borders on or contains
an existing or proposed major street, the Planning Commission may require that
access to such streets be limited by one of the following means:
         a.   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the street and front
onto a parallel local street; no access shall be provided from the street in
the rear, and screening shall be provided in a strip of land no less than five
feet (5') in width along the rear property line of such lots.
         b.   A marginal access or service road (separated from the street by a
planting or grass strip and having access thereto at suitable points).
      6.   Street Regulatory Signs:
         a.   The applicant shall deposit to the City, at the time of final
subdivision approval, a sum determined by the Director of Public Works for each
sign required by the City. The City shall install all street signs before
issuance of certificates of occupancy for any residence on the streets
approved.
         b.   Street signs are to be placed at all intersections within or
abutting the subdivision, the type and location of which shall be approved by
the Public Works Director.
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   General: In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width
and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory
access to police, firefighting, snow removal, sanitation and street maintenance
equipment, and to coordinate streets so as to compose a convenient system and
avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, design standards for street
sections shall be as outlined in the City public works standards or as
otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
      2.   Road Surfacing And Improvements: After pipes, lines and related
facilities pertaining to sewer, water, gas, cable TV, electricity and like
utility services, where required, have been installed by the developer, the
applicant shall construct curbs and gutters and shall surface or cause to be
surfaced roadways to the widths prescribed in these regulations. Said surfacing
shall be in accordance with the City public works standards. Adequate provision
shall be made for culverts, drains and bridges. Driveway approaches shall not
be installed at the time of placement of curb and gutter unless approval for a
building permit has been issued by the City.
      3.   Intersections:
         a.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles. A proposed intersection of two (2) new streets at an
angle of less than eighty degrees (80°) shall not be acceptable. An oblique
street shall be curved approaching an intersection and should be approximately
at right angles for at least one hundred feet (100') therefrom. Not more than
two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point unless specifically approved
by the Planning Commission.
         b.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
one hundred fifty feet (150') shall not be permitted, except where the
intersected street has separated dual drives without median breaks at either
intersection. Where streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be
continuous. Intersections of major streets shall be at least eight hundred feet
(800') apart.
         c.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or
existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by
limiting visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation
(including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to
the extent deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance as determined
by the Public Works Department.
   C.   Street Dedications And Reservations:
      1.   New Perimeter Streets: Street systems in new subdivisions shall be
laid out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half streets. Where an
existing half street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the
street shall be improved and dedicated by the developer.
      2.   Widening And Realignment Of Existing Streets: Where a subdivision
borders an existing narrow street or when the general plan, official map,
zoning setback regulations or public works standards indicate plans for the
realignment or widening of a street that would require use of some of the land
in the subdivision, the applicant shall be required to improve and dedicate, at
his expense, such areas for widening or realignment of such streets. Such
frontage streets shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant at his own
expense to the full width as required by these subdivision regulations. Land
reserved for any street purposes may not be counted in satisfying yard or area
requirements of the zoning ordinance whether the land is to be dedicated to the
Municipality in fee simple or an easement is granted to the City. (Ord. 2001-
02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2023-02, 1-6-2023, eff. 1-5-2023; Ord.
2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-5-4: DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS:
   A.   General Requirements: The Planning Commission shall not recommend for
approval any plat of subdivision which does not make adequate provision for
storm or floodwater runoff channels or basins. The City Engineer and the Public
Works Director shall make the determination of adequate provision. The storm
water drainage system shall be separate and independent of any sanitary sewer
system. Storm drainage point of discharge from channel or conduit shall be
protected from erosion by a suitable structure or lining. Storm sewers, where
required, shall be protected from erosion by a suitable structure or lining,
with the design and method approved by the City Engineer. A copy of design
computations shall be submitted along with the construction plans. All
locations and sizes of storm sewer lines, basins and structures shall be in
conformance with the City’s Storm Water Management Plan (SWMP) and Low Impact
Development (LID) requirements as specified by the City Engineer and Public
Works Director.
   B.   Nature Of Stormwater Facilities:
      1.   Location: The applicant may be required by the Planning Commission
to carry away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist
either previous to, or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities
shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible or in perpetual
unobstructed easements of appropriate width and shall be constructed in
accordance with the City public works standards and shall be approved by the
City Engineer.
      2.   Accessibility To Public Storm Conduits: Where a public storm conduit
is accessible, the applicant shall install storm system facilities, or if no
outlets are within a reasonable distance, adequate provision shall be made for
the disposal of stormwaters, subject to the City public works standards.
However, in commercial zones, underground storm conduit systems shall be
constructed throughout and be conveyed to an approved outfall. Inspection of
facilities shall be conducted by the City Engineer and Public Works Director.
      3.   Accommodation Of Upstream Drainage Areas: A storm conduit line or
other drainage facilities shall in each case be large enough to accommodate
potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area given a particular rain
event (i.e., 25-year) whether inside or outside the subdivision. The City
Engineer shall determine the necessary size of the facility.
      4.   Effect On Downstream Drainage Areas: The City Engineer shall also
study the effect of each subdivision on existing downstream drainage facilities
outside the area of the subdivision. Where it is anticipated that the
additional runoff incident to the development of the subdivision will overload
an existing downstream drainage facility, the City Council may withhold
approval of the subdivision until provision has been made for the improvement
of said potential condition in a manner the City Council shall determine. No
subdivision shall be approved unless adequate drainage will be provided to an
adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
   C.   Detention And Retention Basins: Basins must be constructed with
function, safety, health and aesthetics in mind. Basins must meet the following
requirements:
      1.   Basin Type: Basins shall generally be a combination of detention and
or retention and be designed in accordance with the currently approved storm
water management plan (SWMP) and LID program. If a combination of detention and
retention is desired, the storm water detention volume may be reduced by the
amount of retention that is required.
      2.   Retention Basins: If a retention basin is desired that does not
include detention, the basin shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   Adhere to the LID requirements implemented in the city's SWMP.
(Eighty percent (80%) on site retention required if achievable on all new
construction).
         b.   Retention basins shall be designed for the one hundred (100)
year, 24-hour storm, based upon the Intensity-Duration Frequency (IDF) Curve
for the area as approved by the City Engineer.
         c.   Retention basins may not be located within a hazardous area, on a
steep slope, or in a sensitive area such as within Drinking Water Source Zones
One or Flood Zones.
         d.   Retention basins located in Drinking Water Source Zones Three or
Zone Four shall be required to have an approved oil/water separator accessible
for convenient cleaning and maintenance. The owner of the retention basin shall
maintain and service the oil/water separator.
         e.   Based on a review of the retention pond design, the City Engineer
must be able to determine if the retention pond will not create a safety or
health hazard.
         f.   Due to the silting in potential for retention basins, only ten
percent (10%) of the percolation rate may be used in the calculation of volume.
Percolation rate must be determined by an independent geotechnical firm or as
approved by the City Engineer.
         g.   Retention basins shall be designed with all applicable
construction elements defined in this section.
      3.   Detention Volume: Detention basins must be designed to accommodate a
one hundred (100)-year, 24-hour storm event based on an intensity duration
frequency (IDF) Hydrology curve for the area as approved by the City Engineer.
Release rates should be set at a pre-developed rate for the site but should not
exceed 0.2 cfs /acre.
      4.   Location: Basins shall be located with convenient access for
maintenance and repair by maintenance personnel. This generally means that the
basin property has frontage along a public roadway or has an improved driveway
for access as approved by Plain City Public Works Director.
      5.   Water Depth And Impound Duration: The depth of water impounded in a
storm drain basin may be limited by the City for safety reasons. Deep basins or
basins that impound a large volume of water may be required to follow other
safety guidelines.
      6.   Fencing: Standard requirements for all basins, six feet (6') high
chain-link fencing to restrict public access is required with a minimum of two
(2) five foot (5') access gates for vehicles and mowers, on all detention and/
or retention basins. Height of fence and materials will be designated by the
City (If not designated, then resort to standard requirements). All fence area
around the basin must be level so fencing can sit flush on the ground, no holes
or voids along bottom of the fencing installed will be permitted.
         a.   The fencing requirements may be waived by the City if the basin
is part of multi-use facility where fencing would be too restrictive for other
uses.
      7.   Side Slopes: Side slopes should not exceed a 3:1 slope (horizontal
to vertical). A vehicle access into the pond should be provided. Vehicle access
shall not exceed a slope of 4:1.
      8.   Bottom Slope: The basin floor for typically dry retention ponds
shall be designed to prevent the permanent ponding of water. The slope of the
floor of a detention basin shall not be less than one percent (1%) to provide
drainage of water to the outlet. If there are concrete drainage channels
through the basin, they should be sloped at a minimum of 0.5%.
      9.   Erosion Control/Dust Control: Ground cover is required for all
detention, retention basins constructed to prevent erosion control and dust
control, the ground cover selected and installed will be designated by the
Planning Commission and Public Works Director.
         a.   Selections for ground cover listed but not limited to:
         (1)   Landscaping grass with sprinkler system;
         (2)   Liner with decorative rock, river rock, or cabal stone;
         (3)   Pasture grass; or
         (4)   Seeded vegetation.
      10.   Freeboard: There should be at least one foot (1') of freeboard
above the emergency spillway.
      11.   Depth To Groundwater: The bottom of the pond shall not be closer
than two (2)-feet to the static water level unless otherwise approved by the
City Engineer or Public Works Director.
      12.   Spillways: All detention basins, retention basins or combinations
thereof must have spillways included in their design. There are two (2) types
of spillways, internal spillways and emergency spillways. Internal spillways
are intended to introduce flows back into the main pipe and are typically
downstream of the outlet control. Emergency spillways are intended to carry
flows beyond the capacity of the overflow spillway to a downstream location.
All spillways shall be designed to protect adjacent embankments, nearby
structures and surrounding properties and comply with SWMP and LID standards.
      Emergency spillways must be hardened to prevent erosion.
      Spillway: All detention or retention ponds must have an emergency
spillway.
      13.   Pollutant Removal: All detention basins designs shall include
structures that will remove oils, floating debris and sediment from storm water
prior to the water being discharged into the City owned drainage system.
      14.   Grates: All grates on inlets and outlets must be hot dipped
galvanized with bars at spacing to prohibit feet from falling in and yet avoid
clogging with debris. Generally, bar spacing should not exceed three inches
(3").
      15.   Access And Inspection: Private detention/retention facilities must
be placed in an easement that will allow Plain City Personnel to access and
inspect all related stormwater facilities.
   D.   Floodplain Areas: The City Council may, when it deems necessary for the
health, safety or welfare of the present and future population of the area and
necessary to the conservation of water, drainage and sanitary facilities,
prohibit the subdivision of any portion of the property which lies within the
floodplain of any stream or drainage course. These floodplain areas shall be
preserved from any and all destruction or damage resulting from clearing,
grading or dumping of earth, waste material or stumps, except at the discretion
of the Planning Commission. Title 10, chapter 18, "Sensitive Land Use", of this
Code shall be applied in these instances.
   E.   Dedication Of Drainage Easements:
      1.   General Requirements: Where a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a
stormwater easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially to the
lines of such watercourse, and of such width or construction, or both, as will
be adequate for the purpose of high flow conveyance.
      2.   Drainage Easements:
         a.   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights-of-way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least fifteen feet (15') in width for such
drainage facilities shall be provided across the property outside the road
lines and with satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be so indicated
on the plat. Drainage easements shall be carried from the road to a natural
watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
         b.   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
         c.   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee simple or by drainage
or conservation easement, land on both sides of existing watercourses, to a
distance to be determined by the Planning Commission. All said easements shall
be deemed rights-of-way for lawful Municipal purposes. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001,
eff. 3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2017-14, 12-7-2017, eff. 12-8-2017)
11-5-5: SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE:
The applicant is required to provide the design and installation of a
subsurface drainage system which meets the City public works standards when
determined to be necessary by the City Engineer. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff.
3-1-2001)
11-5-6: WATER FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Regulations: The owner/developer of any land proposed to be
developed as a subdivision shall at his expense be required to comply with all
regulations of the current City standards as well as approved water district
standards.
      2.   Developer Requirements: The developer shall be required to install
adequate water facilities, including fire hydrants. All water lines must be
extended across the entire frontage of all existing streets and to the boundary
of the subdivision on all existing or proposed streets. Main valves and other
appurtenances shall be installed in accordance with the approved water district
standards.
      3.   Water Improvements: All proposed water improvements shall comply
with the approved water district standards.
      4.   Approved Water Districts: The approved water districts for Plain
City are as follows: Bona Vista water or Warren-West Warren water district.
      5.   Exception: Developer is not required to connect to approved water
districts provided the following are met:
         a.   Development is not located within three hundred feet (300') times
the number of lots in subdivision of existing lines of approved water district.
         b.   Developer can show that subdivision has another water source that
can provide the culinary water needs of the subdivision.
         c.   The owners agree to connect to the approved water district lines
when any line is installed within three hundred feet (300') of the lot.
         d.   Owners must connect to the approved water district lines within
one year of the date a line is installed within three hundred feet (300') of
the lot.
      6.   Restriction: A restriction shall be recorded against all lots
covered under the above exception with the purpose of placing all future
landowners on notice of the requirement to connect to the approved water
district lines within the one year requirement above stated.
   B.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions.
Fire hydrants shall be located no more than five hundred feet (500') apart and
within two hundred fifty feet (250') of any structure and shall be approved by
the fire department. To eliminate future street openings, all underground
utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants themselves and all
other supply improvements, shall be installed before any final paving of a
street shown on the subdivision plat.
      Exception: One and two (2) lot subdivision may be exempted from this
requirement with written approval from the city fire department or fire
marshal. (Ord. 2010-07, 11-18-2010, eff. 11-18-2010)
11-5-7: SECONDARY WATER SYSTEM:
The applicant is required to provide pressurized secondary water to the
subdivision as a condition of approval, through Pineview Water Systems or
Mountain View Irrigation.
Exception: Subdivisions not located within three hundred feet (300') times the
number of lots in the subdivision of an existing secondary water system line
are exempt provided the developer shows that another water source (not
including wells) will provide the subdivision with secondary water. Owner shall
agree to connect to secondary water system when a line is installed within
three hundred feet (300') of the lot. Owners must connect to the secondary
water system lines within one year of the date the line is installed within
three hundred feet (300') of the lot. A restriction shall be recorded against
all lots covered under this exception with the purpose of placing all future
landowners on notice of the requirement to connect to the water line within the
one year requirement above stated. (Ord. 2010-07, 11-18-2010, eff. 11-18-2010)
11-5-8: SEWERAGE FACILITIES:
The applicant shall install sanitary sewer facilities in a manner prescribed by
the city public works standards. Sanitary sewerage facilities shall connect
with public sanitary sewerage systems. Sewers shall be installed to serve each
lot and to grades and sizes required by the state department of environmental
quality. No individual disposal system or treatment plants (private or group
disposal systems) shall be permitted. All sewer lines must be extended across
the entire frontage of all existing streets and to the boundary of the
subdivision on all existing or proposed city streets unless determined
otherwise by the city engineer.
Exception: Subdivisions not located within three hundred feet (300') times the
number of lots in the subdivision of an existing Plain City sewer line are
exempt provided that the lots are forty thousand (40,000) square feet minimum
and the developer/owner installs a septic system in accordance with the state
of Utah and Weber County regulations for septic systems. A single septic system
can only serve one lot. Owner shall agree to connect to sewer lines when a line
is installed within three hundred feet (300') of the lot. Owners must connect
to the sewer lines within one year of the date the line is installed within
three hundred feet (300') of the lot. A restriction shall be recorded against
all lots covered under this exception with the purpose of placing all future
landowners on notice of the requirement to connect to the lines within the one
year requirement above stated. (Ord. 2010-07, 11-18-2010, eff. 11-18-2010)
11-5-9: SIDEWALKS:
Sidewalks shall be required for reasons of safety and public welfare.
Subdivisions where the average lot width is one hundred fifty feet (150') or
more, sidewalks may not be required at the discretion of the planning
commission or the city engineer. The city will not waive sidewalk requirements
on state highways unless the state department of transportation has waived the
sidewalk requirement. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-5-10: CURB AND GUTTER:
Curb and gutter shall be installed on existing and proposed streets by the
subdivider where, in the opinion of the planning commission and the city
engineer they will be necessary to remove surface water to promote safety or
other justifiable reasons as determined by the planning commission or city
engineer. Curb and gutter shall be installed by the subdivider in subdivisions
along the abutting state highways if required by the state department of
transportation. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-5-11: UTILITIES:
The developer is required to provide for the installation of all utility
facilities, including, but not limited to, water, sewer, storm drain, gas,
electric power, telephone and cable TV cables, and one and a half inches (1½”)
gray PVC fiber conduit for future city use which shall be installed and located
within the utility easement one foot (1') behind sidewalk and a minimum of two
feet six inches (2' 6") in depth underground throughout the subdivision, see
standard roadway section, located on page 2 in the Plain City Public Works
Standards. Wherever existing utility facilities are located aboveground, except
where existing on public roads and rights of way, developer shall cause
facilities to be removed and placed underground upon request by the city.
Underground service connections to the street property line of each platted lot
shall be installed at the developer's expense. Buried electrical transformers
shall be located as to avoid all drainage channels or flooding due to final
grade. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2020-10, 10-15-2020)
11-5-12: PUBLIC USES:
   A.   Recreation:
      1.   Recreation Sites: Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of
a character and location suitable for use as a playground, or for other
recreation purposes, and shall be relatively level and dry; and shall be
improved by the developer to the standards required by the city council, which
improvements shall be included in the escrow. All land to be reserved for
dedication to the city for park purposes shall have prior approval of the city
council and shall be shown marked on the plat "reserved for park and/or
recreation purposes". (Ord. 2011-05, 3-3-2011, eff. 3-4-2011)
      2.   Additional Recreation Reservations: The provisions of this section
are minimum standards. None of the provisions above shall be construed as
prohibiting a developer from reserving other land for recreation purposes in
addition to the requirements of this section.
   B.   Other Public Uses:
      1.   Plat To Provide For Public Uses: Except when an applicant utilizes
planned unit development or density zoning in which land is set aside by the
developer as required by the provision of the zoning ordinance, whenever the
subdivision includes a school, recreation use or other public use as indicated
on the general plan or any portion thereof, such space shall be suitably
incorporated by the applicant into his preliminary plan. After proper
determination of its necessity by the planning commission and the appropriate
city officials or other public agency involved in the acquisition and use of
each such site and a determination has been made to acquire the site by the
public agency, the site shall be suitably incorporated by the applicant into
the final plat.
      2.   Referral To Public Body: The planning commission shall refer the
plat to the public body concerned with acquisition for its consideration and
report. The planning commission may propose alternate areas for such
acquisitions and shall allow the public body or agency thirty (30) days for
reply. The agency's recommendation, if affirmative, shall include a map showing
the boundaries and area of the parcel to be acquired and an estimate of the
time required to complete the acquisition.
      3.   Notice Of Property Owner: Upon receipt of an affirmative report, the
planning commission shall notify the property owner and shall designate on the
preliminary and final plats that area proposed to be acquired by the public
body.
      4.   Duration Of Land Reservation: The acquisition of land reserved by a
public agency on the final plat shall be initiated within twelve (12) months of
notification, in writing, from the owner that he intends to develop the land.
Such letter of intent shall be accompanied by a plat of the proposed
development and a tentative schedule of construction. Failure on the part of
the public agency to initiate acquisition within the prescribed twelve (12)
months shall result in the removal of the "reserved" designation from the
property involved and the freeing of the property for development in accordance
with these regulations. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-5-13: IRRIGATION WATER:
   A.   Culvert Required: No open irrigation or drainage ditches shall be
permitted within the boundary of a subdivision. All necessary irrigation
ditches, whether used for the purpose of transporting irrigation or waste flow
water, that must be maintained within a subdivision shall be replaced with a
pipe culvert. This pipe culvert shall be at least fifteen inch (15") diameter
concrete pipe and be of satisfactory size and design to satisfy the irrigation
company. The developer of a subdivision must provide for maintaining the
existing rights of all irrigation users, both upstream and downstream of the
proposed development.
   B.   Fencing: A solid board, chainlink or other nonclimbable fence not less
than six feet (6') in height shall be installed on the side of an existing open
canal, irrigation, basin or drainage ditch adjacent to (within five (5) feet of
the subdivision boundary to nearest centerline) the subdivision, and which is
not piped in accordance with the foregoing section. Like fencing shall be
constructed where the subdivision borders upon open reservoirs, nonaccess
streets and adjoining schools, churches and park sites, except where the City
Council determines that said areas shall remain open and unfenced. All such
fences shall be maintained and kept in good repair by the owner of property
contiguous to or upon which said fence is erected. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001,
eff. 3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2020-10, 10-15-2020)
11-5-14: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES:
   A.   General: Existing features which would add value to a residential
development or to the city as a whole, such as trees, historic spots and
similar irreplaceable assets, are encouraged to be preserved in the design of
the subdivision. Such existing features shall not be removed from any
subdivision nor any change of grade of the land affected until approval of the
preliminary plan has been granted.
   B.   Water Rights: All water or water rights used upon, appurtenant to or
running with any land located within a proposed subdivision shall be offered to
the city for purchase at the market value existing at the time the preliminary
plan is submitted for approval. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-5-15: NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION:
   A.   General:
      1.   If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for commercial
or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect to such land
shall make such provisions as the planning commission may require.
      2.   A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the
requirements of site plan approval set forth in the zoning ordinance. Site plan
approval and nonresidential subdivision plat approval may proceed
simultaneously at the discretion of the planning commission. A nonresidential
subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these regulations, as
well as such additional standards required by the planning commission, and
shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established in the general
plan, official map and zoning ordinance.
   B.   Standards: In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the commission that the
street, parcel and block pattern proposed are specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and take into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed:
      1.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions
to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      2.   Street right of way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      3.   Special requirements may be imposed by the city with respect to
street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
      4.   Special requirements may be imposed by the city with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including, but not limited to, water, sewer
and stormwater drainage.
      5.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing upon existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a fence or other barrier,
or a permanently landscaped buffer strip, when necessary.
      6.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-5-16: STREET LIGHTING:
The cost for installing the required street lighting shall be borne by the
subdivider. Street lighting shall be installed on proposed streets or in the
vicinity of the development, where in the opinion of the Planning Commission,
Public Works Director or the City Engineer they will be necessary for reasons
of safety, crime reduction and public welfare. The Planning Commission shall
not recommend for approval any plat of subdivision which does not make adequate
provisions for street lighting. The City Engineer and Public Works Director
shall make the determination of adequate provision. Street lighting where
required shall be subject to the review and approval of Rocky Mountain Power
Company or their approved contractor. Light pole shall be in accordance with
Plain City Standards or in accordance with Rocky Mountain Power Company
requirements. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2020-10, 10-15-
2020)
11-5-17: STREET SIGNS:
The subdivider shall bear the cost of all required street signing in or around
the proposed development. In order to ensure consistency of street signing in
type, like and design, all street signs shall be constructed in accordance with
Plain City Standards, placement of all signs will be at the discretion of the
Public Works Director. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2020-
10, 10-15-2020)
11-5-18: RURAL RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General: In order to encourage planning and engineering of residential
properties with fewer lots per acre, and to provide for a more rural atmosphere
within certain residential subdivision, exceptions to improvements required by
this chapter may be considered by the planning commission and city council.
Subdivisions with a minimum residential lot size of one and one-half (11/2)
acres and lot frontages of at least one hundred fifty feet (150') may be
considered as rural residential subdivisions.
   B.   Considered Exceptions: Following are exceptions to improvements which
may be considered in subdivisions with minimum lot sizes of at least one and
one-half (11/2) acres and frontages of not less than one hundred fifty feet
(150'):
      1.   Sidewalks may not be required as mentioned in section
11-5-9 of this chapter, unless roadways are owned and under the jurisdiction of
the state department of transportation.
      2.   Curb and gutter may not be required as mentioned in section
11-5-10 of this chapter if adequate roadway shoulders and drainage swales are
constructed, as determined by the city engineer. Drainage swales shall be
designed to carry and convey stormwater with a positive gradient toward outlet
drains. Culverts shall be constructed at all driveway approaches and roadway
intersections. Engineering stormwater calculations shall be required to carry a
100-year storm without flooding residential structures.
      3.   Pavement widths may be reduced from thirty five feet (35') on
interior local roadways within the subdivision. Right of way widths shall
remain the same as those required in normal subdivisions. Pavement widths shall
be reduced only if adequate area for parking along roadway shoulders is
provided as determined by the city engineer. Where rural subdivisions connect
to standard subdivision roadways, street sections shall be designed to provide
for a gradual and smooth transition into the full pavement section, as approved
by the city engineer. Utah department of transportation roadways and
intersecting streets approaching the roadways shall be designed to meet their
standard requirements.
      4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 11-5-2G of this
chapter, piping and fencing of irrigation ditches as required by section
11-5-13 of this chapter may be waived at the discretion of the city council.
   C.   Other Design Standards: All other improvements within rural residential
subdivisions shall comply with the design standards specified for standard
residential subdivisions in the city. (Ord. 2001-02, 3-1-2001, eff. 3-1-2001)
11-5-19: CUL-DE-SAC SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   General: Where the City Council finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
and/or the purpose of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal, it may approve Special Exceptions to these subdivision
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured. The Special Exception shall not have the effect of nullifying the
intent and purposes of Title 11 or any other title of this code. Special
Exceptions, by nature, are legislative, policy making decisions with no
applicant entitled to receive a Special Exception.
   B.   Applicability: Special Exceptions will only be considered for standards
required under Title 11 Chapter 5 Section 3 and the Cul-De-Sac definition in
Title 11 Chapter 1 Section 2 of this Code. No applicant is entitled to receive
a Special Exception.
   C.   Guidelines: In granting Special Exceptions, the City Council and
Planning Commission shall consider the guidelines found below. To obtain a
Special Exception, an applicant is not required to achieve a positive finding
for each guideline, however, each guideline must be considered and addressed in
Planning Commission and City Council findings. In certain situations, a finding
related to one of the guidelines below may override considerations for the
other guidelines.
      1.   The impact on neighboring properties, including the ability to
develop neighboring parcels in accordance with the general plan features.
      2.   Community design including connectivity between subdivisions,
utilities, parks, open space, and future transportation requirements as
outlined by the City Engineer.
   D.   Cul-De-Sacs:
      1.   Cul-de-sacs may be granted an exception as to length if, in addition
to the guideline standards above, all of the following criteria are met:
         a.   The maximum cul-de-sac length with a special exception extension
will be no more than 600 feet.
         b.   The property to be subdivided is an infill and surrounded by
developed subdivisions.
         c.   If a special exception is granted, the number of lots on the cul-
de-sac may be up to 12.
   E.   Conditions: In approving Special Exceptions, the City Council may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards or requirements of these regulations. The Planning
Commission may recommend any condition(s) it feels is relevant to the approval
of the Special Exception.
   F.   Procedures:
      1.   A complete application for any such Special Exception shall be
submitted in writing by the applicant at the time when the preliminary plat is
filed for consideration by the Planning Commission. The application shall state
fully the grounds for the application request and all of the facts relied upon
by the petitioner.
      2.   Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the petition, the Planning
Commission shall consider the application and forward a recommendation of
approval or denial to the City Council, unless consideration of the petition is
continued for further review. Failure of the Planning Commission to take such
action within the prescribed time shall be deemed a favorable recommendation by
the Planning Commission of the requested Special Exception to the City Council.
      3.   Within thirty (30) days after receipt of the recommendation by the
Planning Commission, the City Council shall uphold or overrule the
recommendation of the Planning Commission by a majority of its members after
discussing it in an open meeting with an opportunity for public comment during
the agenda item. Any failure of the City Council to render a final decision
within thirty (30) days shall be deemed a denial by the City Council.
      4.   The decision of the City Council shall be final. Any appeal of the
decision shall proceed directly to the Hearing Officer as an appeal on the
record before the City Council to determine if the City Council abused its
legislative powers and if the decision is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.
(Ord. 2021-10, 8-6-2021)
CHAPTER 6
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT
(Rep. by Ord. 2018-09, 7-19-2018, eff. 7-20-2018)
CHAPTER 7
CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Purpose And Intent
11-7-2: General Regulations
11-7-3: Site Development Standards
11-7-4: Open Space Provision
11-7-5: Open Space Preservation And Maintenance
11-7-6: Procedure
11-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Cluster subdivisions are intended to allow flexibility in neighborhood and
subdivision lot design by permitting the development of single-family and two-
family dwellings on lots smaller than normally required for the zone in which
the subdivision is located and by dedicating or reserving the land so saved to
needed open space. It is not intended that this type of subdivision be
universally applied but only where circumstances or natural features and land
use make it appropriate and of special benefit to the residents of the
subdivision and surrounding area. (Ord. 2002-13, 11-7-2002, eff. 11-7-2002)
11-7-2: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Zones Allowed As Conditional Use: A cluster subdivision shall be a
conditional use in R-1-11, RE-15, RE-18.5, and RE-20 Zones, and notwithstanding
any other provisions of this title, the provisions as hereinafter set forth
shall be applicable if any conflict exists; provided, however, that no such
cluster subdivision shall contain more than twenty five (25) dwelling units.
(Ord. 2002-13, 11-7-2002, eff. 11-7-2002; amd. Ord. 2019-01, 1-3-2019, eff. 1-
4-2019)
   B.   Lot Area Reduction: Where land is proposed for subdivision into lots
and a subdivider dedicates or permanently reserves land within the subdivision
for recreational use or open space, a reduction in the minimum lot area
required for the zone in which the cluster subdivision is located, may be
approved by the Planning Commission, provided the provisions of this chapter
are met; and further provided, that the cluster subdivision receives
subdivision approval.
   C.   Guarantee: The developer shall provide a financial guarantee approved
by and in the amount determined by the City Engineer guaranteeing the
completion of all improvements and amenities of the open space proposed by the
developer and approved by the City Council. This amount shall be held in escrow
to protect the City in case of default by the developer to complete the
project. (Ord. 2002-13, 11-7-2002, eff. 11-7-2002)
11-7-3: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area for dwellings may be reduced
below the area normally required in the zone in which the cluster subdivision
is located, but no lot shall have an area less than two-thirds (2/3) of the
minimum lot area required for such dwelling in the respective zone.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width And Yard Setbacks: The minimum lot width and side
yard may be reduced below the side yard normally required in the zone in which
the cluster subdivision is located, but no lot shall have a width or side yard
of less than three-fourths (3/4) of the minimum lot width or side yard required
in the respective zone.
   C.   Number Of Lots Allowed: Total number of lots for the development shall
be determined by the amount of buildable land rather than total acreage that
may contain unbuildable land such as, but not limited to, wetlands. (Ord. 2002-
13, 11-7-2002, eff. 11-7-2002)
11-7-4: OPEN SPACE PROVISION:
There shall be permanently reserved within the subdivision for recreation and/
or open space, parcels of land whose total area is not less than the amount by
which the areas of the residential lots are reduced below the minimum area
normally required in the zone in which the cluster subdivision is located.
(Ord. 2002-13, 11-7-2002, eff. 11-7-2002)
11-7-5: OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION AND MAINTENANCE:
Recreation and/or open space areas to be permanently reserved shall be imposed,
landscaped and maintained in accordance with a plan approved by the Planning
Commission and the cluster subdivision provision of this title. (Ord. 2002-13,
11-7-2002, eff. 11-7-2002)
11-7-6: PROCEDURE:
A preliminary plan of the cluster subdivision showing the areas within the
subdivision to be permanently reserved for recreation and/or open space, and
plans showing the proposed use, improvements and method of maintenance of such
areas shall be approved by the Planning Commission before the cluster
subdivision proposal becomes allowed. (Ord. 2002-13, 11-7-2002, eff. 11-7-2002)
CHAPTER 8
SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS FOR 1-2 FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
SECTION:
11-8-1:    Purpose
11-8-2: Scope Of Applicability
11-8-3:    Interpretation And Conflict Of Laws
11-8-4:    Definitions
11-8-5:    Subdivision Land Use Authority
11-8-6:    Subdivision Appeal Authority
11-8-7: Application Requirements
11-8-8:    Pre-Application Meeting
11-8-9:    Notice To Affected Entities
11-8-10: Review
11-8-11: Approval
11-8-12: Post-Approval Actions
11-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to comply with Utah Code §10-9a-604-604.9 and
increase administrative efficiency in reviewing subdivision applications. (Ord.
2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-8-2: SCOPE OF APPLICABILITY:
This Chapter applies to all subdivision-related applications or petitions where
the intended use is one- or two-family residential dwellings, including
townhomes and duplexes. This Chapter does not apply to applications or
petitions for other uses. This Chapter also does not apply to proposals to
subdivide land through a development agreement of the type described in and
governed by Chapter 11-9. (Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024; amd. Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-
2025)
11-8-3: INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT OF LAWS:
Where any provision in this Subdivision Chapter conflicts with state law, state
law shall prevail. Where any provision in this Subdivision Chapter conflicts
with other ordinances enacted by the City, the provisions in this Subdivision
Chapter shall prevail unless the City intended such conflicting ordinances not
in this Chapter to amend this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-8-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, as used in this Chapter, shall have the
following meanings. Words and phrases not defined here have the meaning
expressed elsewhere in this Title or, if not defined in this Title, the meaning
defined by state law:
IMPROVEMENT PLAN: A plan to complete permanent infrastructure on the
subdivision that is essential for the public health and safety or that is
required for human occupation and that an applicant must install in accordance
with public installation and inspection specifications for public improvements
and as a condition of recording a subdivision plat.
LAND USE APPLICATION: An application required by the City and submitted by a
land use applicant to obtain a land use approval; this does not mean an
application to enact, amend, or repeal a land use regulation.
LAND USE AUTHORITY: An individual, board, or commission appointed or employed
by a municipality to make land use decisions.
PLAT: An instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map or
other graphic representation of land that a licensed professional land surveyor
makes and prepares in accordance with §10-9a-603 or § 57-8-13 of Utah State
Code (as amended). (Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-8-5: SUBDIVISION LAND USE AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Land Use Authority under this Chapter, except where otherwise
noted, is the Planning Commission.
   B.   The Land Use Authority is responsible for the following, but may
delegate any task to the Technical Review Committee or other City staff:
      1.   Rendering a land use decision on all subdivision applications and
petitions under this Chapter.
      2.   Reviewing all applications under this Chapter in an impartial manner
and according to the standards and deadlines described in this Chapter.
      3.   Providing feedback to applicants in the manner required by this
Chapter.
      4.   Scheduling and holding a pre-application meeting with potential
applicants as requested.
      5.   Keeping subdivision application forms and related informational
material up to date and publicly accessible and distributing such forms and
materials to potential applicants.
      6.   Providing notice to entities and parties as required in this
Chapter.
      7.   Signing application and petition approvals as required in this
Chapter.
      8.   Ensuring that documents are properly recorded with the County as
required in this Chapter.
   C.   As Subdivision application decisions are administrative, not
legislative, the Land Use Authority is authorized to make any land use decision
described by this Chapter without City Council approval.
   D.   Except when operating as the Appeal Authority, the City Council shall
not require the Land Use Authority to approve or deny an application under this
Chapter. (Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-8-6: SUBDIVISION APPEAL AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Appeal Authority for City decisions relating to this Chapter,
except where otherwise noted, is the City Council.
   B.   The Appeal Authority shall hear appeals on final decisions made by the
Land Use Authority and shall hear complaints about the conduct of the Land Use
Authority in administering the provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   A party appealing or complaining of a Land Use Authority decision under
this Chapter must exhaust its remedies under this section (by appealing or
complaining to the Appeal Authority) before bringing an action against the City
in a court of law.
   D.   A party who has submitted a subdivision application or petition may
appeal or complain to the Appeal Authority under this Chapter. In such an
appeal or complaint, the party may appeal or complain only regarding the Land
Use Authority's treatment of that party's own application; a third party may
not appeal or complain of Land Use Authority decisions or conduct.
   E.   A party desiring to appeal or complain of a Land Use Authority decision
shall submit to the Appeal Authority the following in writing:
      1.   A brief explanation of the relief the party is seeking, the reason
the party submitted its application or petition, the Land Use Authority's
decision and treatment of the application or petition, and why the applicant
believes the Land Use Authority misapplied the provisions of this Chapter or
abused the discretion given it by this Chapter.
      2.   The most recent version of the application or petition the party
submitted.
      3.   Any supplemental documentation or information that the Appeal
Authority requests.
      4.   All appeals and complaints must be emailed or mailed to the City
Recorder using the Recorder's official City address and/or email account listed
on the City website.
   F.   After receiving a complete appeal or complaint in accordance with this
Section, the Appeal Authority shall deliver a decision to the applicant, in
writing, no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the Appeal Authority
receives the appeal or complaint. (Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-8-7: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   To be considered complete, a subdivision application must include at
least the following elements:
      1.   An approved land use application that describes how the property
will be used after it is subdivided.
         a.   If the intended use is permitted by right under City ordinances,
the land use application must include citations to the specific ordinance(s)
that the applicant believes authorizes the intended use.
         b.   If the intended use requires a conditional use permit or is
otherwise conditioned on City approval, the land use application must include
an approved, City-issued permit authorizing the intended use. Should an
applicant seek a use permit concurrently with a related subdivision
application, the subdivision application shall be considered incomplete until
the use permit is issued.
         c.   If the intended use is prohibited under City ordinances and
requires a variance, the land use application must include an approved, City-
issued variance authorizing the intended use. Should an applicant seek a
variance concurrently with a related subdivision application, the subdivision
application shall be considered incomplete until the variance is issued.
      2.   A plat: The plat must be drawn to scale, in detail, and in
accordance with generally accepted surveying standards and the acceptable
filing standards of the County Recorder's office. The plat must include:
         a.   The proposed name and general location of the subdivision, in
bold letters at the top of the plat. The proposed subdivision name must be
distinct from any subdivision name on a plat recorded in the County Recorder's
office.
         b.   The boundaries, course, numbering, and dimensions of all proposed
parcels. All lots should be consecutively numbered.
         c.   The lot or unit reference; block or building reference; street or
site address; street name or coordinate address; acreage or square footage for
all parcels, units, or lots; and length and width of the blocks and lots
intended for sale.
         d.   The names and addresses of all adjoining property owners of
record, or the names of adjoining developments and the names of adjoining
streets.
         e.   The address and phone number of the land surveyor and/or engineer
who prepared the plat.
         f.   Sufficient data acceptable to the City Engineer to readily
determine the location, bearing and length of all lines on the plat, and to
reproduce such lines upon the ground, and the location of all proposed
monuments, including contours at appropriate intervals.
         g.   Whether any parcel is intended to be used as a street or for any
other public use.
         h.   The names, numbers, widths, lengths, bearings, and curve data on
centerlines for all proposed streets, alleys, and easements (if applicable).
All proposed streets shall be numbered and named in accordance with the City's
adopted addressing system.
         i.   The location of existing streets, easements, water bodies,
streams, and other pertinent features such as wetlands, buildings, parks,
cemeteries, drainage ditches, irrigation ditches, fences, and bridges.
         j.   The location and width of existing and proposed streets, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, easements, alleys, other public ways and easements and
proposed street rights-of-way and building setback lines.
         k.   Every existing right-of-way and recorded easement located within
the plat for underground, water, and utility facilities.
         l.   Any known and unrecorded water conveyance facility located,
entirely or partially, within the plat.
         m.   Location and size of all proposed water, secondary water,
sanitary sewer, storm sewer, irrigation or drainage ditch piping or other
subsurface improvements, including detailed provisions for collecting and
discharging surface water drainage.
         n.   Whether any parcel is reserved or proposed for dedication for a
public purpose.
         o.   The location and dimensions of all property proposed to be set
aside for park or playground use, or other public or private reservation, with
designation of the purpose thereof and conditions, if any, of the dedication or
reservation.
         p.   As applicable, formal, irrevocable offers for dedication to the
public of streets, City uses, utilities, parks, easements, or other spaces.
         q.   One copy of the plat drawn on mylar for signing and recording and
seven (7) eleven-inch by seventeen-inch (11" x 17") printed copies for the
City's use in the review process. The applicant must also provide a digital
version of the plat.
         r.   Seven (7) sets of two (2) eleven-inch by seventeen-inch (11" x
17") aerial maps: one map showing a close up of the proposed subdivision (with
legend included) and the second map showing the area approximately one thousand
feet (1,000') around the boundaries of the subdivision in all directions. The
applicant must also provide a digital version of the maps.
      3.   An improvement plan, created in accordance with applicable portions
of section
11-3-5  and chapters 11-5 and 11-4 of this Title, for all public improvements
proposed by the applicant or required by City ordinances.
      4.   Certifications, including:
         a.   An affidavit from the applicant certifying that the submitted
information is true and accurate.
         b.   The signature of each owner of record of land described on the
plat, signifying their dedication and approval of the plat.
         c.   Certification that the surveyor who prepared the plat:
            (1)   Holds a license in accordance with Utah Code 58-22; and
            (2)   Either
               (A)   Has completed a survey of the property described on the
plat in accordance with state requirements and has verified all measurements;
or
               (B)   Has referenced a record of survey map of the existing
property boundaries shown on the plat and verified the locations of the
boundaries; and
            (3)   Has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
         d.   Proof of approval by the culinary water authority, the sanitary
sewer authority, the local health department, the local fire department, and
the local public safety answering point.
         e.   If the plat is to be part of a community association, signed and
binding documents conveying to the association all common areas.
      5.   An electronic copy of all plans in PDF format.
      6.   Payment of any application-processing fees required by the City.
   B.   The Land Use Authority shall produce, maintain, and make available to
the public a list of the specific items that comprise a complete land use
application, plat, and improvement plan and a breakdown of any fees due upon
submission or approval of the application.
   C.   The Land Use Authority may require, and the applicant shall provide,
additional information beyond the requirements of this Section or those
published by the Land Use Authority relating to an applicant's plans to ensure
compliance with municipal ordinances and approved standards and specifications
for construction of public improvements. (Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-8-8: PRE-APPLICATION MEETING:
   A.   A party intending to submit a subdivision application under this
Chapter may request a pre-application meeting with the Land Use Authority for
the purpose of reviewing any element of the party's proposed subdivision
application. The proposed application need not be complete for purposes of this
meeting and may-if the party desires-be limited to a concept plan.
      1.   If a party requests a pre-application meeting, the Land Use
Authority shall schedule the meeting within fifteen (15) business days after
the request. The meeting shall be scheduled at the earliest convenient
opportunity, and, at the option of the party requesting the meeting, shall
occur within forty-five (45) business days after scheduling.
      2.   The Land Use Authority (or a member of the body that makes up the
Land Use Authority) shall conduct the meeting, provide feedback on materials as
requested by the party, and shall provide or have available on the municipal
website the following at the time of the meeting:
         a.   Copies of applicable land use regulations;
         b.   A complete list of standards required for the project; and
         c.   Relevant application checklists. (Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-8-9: NOTICE TO AFFECTED ENTITIES:
   A.   Within fifteen (15) calendar days after receiving a complete
subdivision application under this Chapter, the Land Use Authority shall
provide written notice of the proposed subdivision to the facility owner of any
water conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within one hundred
feet (100') of the subdivision plat.
      1.   To determine whether any water conveyance facility is located within
100 feet of a proposed subdivision, the Land Use Authority shall review
information:
         a.   From the facility owner under Utah Code §10-9a-211, using
mapping- grade global positioning satellite units or digitized data from the
most recent aerial photo available to the facility owner;
         b.   From the state engineer's inventory of canals; or
         c.   From a licensed surveyor who has consulted with a representative
of an existing water conveyance facility that services an area near the land
the application concerns.
   B.   To give water conveyance facilities time to provide feedback on
subdivision applications, the Land Use Authority shall not approve a
subdivision application under this Chapter sooner than twenty (20) calendar
days after the applicant submits a complete application. This waiting period
does not apply to revised applications the applicant may submit during the
application review process.
      1.   A water conveyance facility owner's failure to provide comments to
the Land Use Authority about a subdivision application does not affect or
impair the Land Use Authority's authority to approve the subdivision
application. (Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-8-10: REVIEW:
   A.   The Land Use Authority shall review all subdivision applications under
this Chapter in accordance with the requirements of this Section before
approving or denying a subdivision application.
   B.   The review process begins when an applicant submits a complete
application.
      1.   The Land Use Authority shall not review an incomplete subdivision
application, except to determine whether the application is complete.
      2.   If the Land Use Authority determines that an application is not
complete, it shall notify the applicant of the incompleteness, highlighting any
insufficiencies and explaining that the application will not be reviewed until
completed.
   C.   After the applicant submits a complete application, the Land Use
Authority shall review and provide feedback to the applicant in up to four
"review cycles."
      1.   A review cycle consists of the following phases:
         a.   Phase #1: The applicant submits a complete application (or, if
after the first cycle, submits a revised version of the complete application).
         b.   Phase #2: The Land Use Authority reviews the application in
detail and assesses whether the application conforms to local ordinances.
         c.   Phase #3: The Land Use Authority responds to the applicant,
citing any missing requirements or areas of noncompliance and providing a
detailed list of necessary revisions to the applicant, within fifteen (15)
business days after the applicant submitted the complete application. For any
required modification or addition to the application or request for more
information, the Land Use Authority shall be specific and include citations to
ordinances, standards, or specifications that require the modification and
shall provide the applicant with an index of all requested modifications or
additions.
         d.   Phase #4: The applicant revises the application, addressing each
comment or requirement the Land Use Authority made. The applicant must submit
both revised plans and a written explanation in response to the municipality's
review comments, identifying and explaining the applicant's revisions and
reasons for declining to make revisions, if any. This written explanation shall
be comprehensive and specific, including citations to applicable standards and
ordinances and an index of requested revisions or additions for each required
correction. If the applicant fails to respond to a comment made by the Land Use
Authority in its review, the review cycle is not complete and will remain open
until the applicant addresses all comments.
   D.   The Land Use Authority shall not (nor shall any other representative of
the municipality) require more than four review cycles for a subdivision
application under this Chapter. If no further revisions are needed, the Land
Use Authority may end the review period early and approve or deny the
application.
      1.   This provision notwithstanding, for any subdivision application that
affects property within an identified geological hazard area, the City is
exempt from limits on the number of permitted review cycles and the City's
deadlines for reviewing and responding (Phases #2 and #3).
      2.   If the applicant makes a material change to the application not
requested by the municipality at any point in the review process, the review
process may, at the option of the Land Use Authority, restart from the
beginning of the first review cycle but only with respect to the portion of the
application that the material change substantively effects.
      3.   If an applicant takes longer than twenty (20) business days to
submit a revised application and respond to the City's requests for
modifications and additions (Phases #1 and #4), the City shall have an
additional (20) business days to review and respond to the revised application
(Phases #2 and #3 of the next review cycle or issuing an approval decision).
      4.   If an applicant takes longer than one hundred eight (180) calendar
days to submit a revised application and respond to the City's requests for
modifications and additions (Phases #1 and #4), the application shall, at the
option of the Land Use Authority, expire. If an application expires, the
applicant must restart the subdivision application process.
   E.   After the fourth or final review cycle is complete, the Land Use
Authority shall approve or deny the application within twenty (20) business
days.
      1.   If the Land Use Authority has not approved or denied the application
within twenty (20) business days after the fourth or final review, the
applicant may request a final decision. After such a request, the municipality
shall, within ten (10) business days:
         a.   For a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans,
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Utah Code §10-9a-508(5)(d) to
review and approve or deny the final revised set of plans; or
         b.   For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review,
advise the applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the application and of
the right to appeal the determination to the designated Appeal Authority.
   F.   After the Land Use Authority provides comments in the fourth or final
review cycle, the municipality shall not require further modifications or
corrections unless those modifications or corrections are needed to protect
public health and safety or to enforce state or federal law or unless the
review cycle reset due to the applicant making a material change that the Land
Use Authority did not request.
      1.   With the exception of modifications or corrections that are needed
to protect public health and safety, that are needed to enforce state or
federal law, or that arise from the review cycle bring reset, the municipality
waives noncompliant subdivision-related requirements that the Land Use
Authority does not identify during the review process.
      2.   The applicant shall make reasonable changes, unless prohibited
otherwise by a contract or deed, to the subdivision application to accommodate
the water conveyance facility to the extent required by Utah Code § 73-1-15.5.
   G.   The municipality may conduct one (but no more than one) public hearing
for the purpose of asking questions of the applicant and receiving commentary
on the technical aspects of the application from affected entities, interested
parties, and the public. If the municipality elects to hold this public
hearing, the hearing must occur before the end of the Land Use Authority's
review period in the fourth or final review cycle. Scheduling issues shall not
extend the review and approval deadlines in this Chapter.
   H.   Other chapters of this Title notwithstanding, the Land Use Authority
shall approve or deny a subdivision application under this Chapter after
reviewing a complete subdivision application as described in this Section. This
singular application and review process includes the combined elements of
traditional "preliminary" and "final" applications, as those terms are used in
Utah Code § 10-9a-604.2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1834.png]
 
(Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-8-11: APPROVAL:
   A.   The Land Use Authority shall approve any complete subdivision
application made under this Chapter that complies with applicable municipal
ordinances.
   B.   A subdivision application is approved when:
      1.   The Land Use Authority sends to the applicant a Notice of Decision,
signed by the Land Use Authority; and
      2.   The Land Use Authority certifies the approved plat, either by
signing the plat directly or by attaching a signed certification to the plat.
(Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024)
11-8-12: POST-APPROVAL ACTIONS:
   A.   The applicant shall record the approved subdivision plat with the
County Recorder's Office within three hundred sixty five (365) calendar days
after the municipality approves the subdivision application, provided that the
applicant has completed any improvements or posted any completion assurance
required by City ordinances (notably by chapters 11-4 and 11-5) or described in
the approved improvement plan. The applicant shall not record the approved
final plat until such improvements are completed or assured in compliance with
City ordinances and the approved improvement plan.
   B.   An approved plat not properly recorded within the timeline specified in
11-8-12 (A) is void, unless the Land Use Authority approves an extension.
   C.   As required under the City Building Code (
9-1-3 ), the City shall not issue a building permit for the construction of
buildings or other private improvements in a subdivision until:
      1.   The approved final plat is properly recorded with the County
Recorder’s Office; and
      2.   All public improvements required by City ordinances or contemplated
in the approved improvement plan are completed. (Ord. 2024-03, 3-7-2024; amd.
Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
CHAPTER 9
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
11-9-1: Purpose
11-9-2: Definitions
11-9-3: Form
11-9-4: Limitations
11-9-5: City Council Approval
11-9-6: Required Retainer And City Review Fees
11-9-7: Optional Term Sheet And Concept Plan/Map Review
11-9-8: TRC Review And Report
11-9-9: Planning Commission Recommendation
11-9-10: Public Notice
11-9-11: Recording
11-9-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of the development agreement process described in this
Chapter is to provide the City with a method of offering exceptions to existing
City land use, infrastructure, and subdivision requirements in order to attract
unique development opportunities that:
      1.   Align with the General Plan;
      2.   Improve more than one hundred (100) acres; and
      3.   Offer extreme benefits to the City. (Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter 9:
DEVELOPER: Any individual or entity seeking a development agreement, including
property owners, professional developers, and agents of the same.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT PROPOSAL and PROPOSAL: A formalized draft of a contract,
not yet accepted by all parties, prepared for signing and intended as an offer
by the developer to the City or vice versa. These terms do not refer to any
Preliminary Materials.
PRELIMINARY MATERIALS: Concept plans and maps, term sheets, and other documents
intended as tools for discussing the feasibility of a project and negotiating
the basic terms of a Development Agreement Proposal. (Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-9-3: FORM:
A development agreement is a contract between the City and the Developer who
proposes the agreement. Subject to any applicable federal, state, and county
regulations, a development agreement may bestow exceptions to City ordinances.
(Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-9-4: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The City may reject a Development Agreement Proposal at any time before
approval and for any reason, whether political or technical. Developers are not
entitled to Proposal approval, even for applications that comply with existing
City ordinances, that have been extensively discussed by the City, or that the
City initiated.
   B.   If the City rejects a proposal to enter into a development agreement,
the Developer may pursue approval of the project by complying with City
ordinances and submitting the required land use and subdivision applications
individually and in compliance with all existing federal, state, county, and
City standards.
   C.   In accordance with Utah Code § 10-9a-532(2), development agreements are
void to the extent that they:
      1.   Limit the City's future authority to enact land use regulations or
other ordinances and rules that are necessary and proper to protect property in
the City or to promote the health, safety, prosperity, morals, peace and good
order, comfort, and convenience of the City and its inhabitants; or
      2.   Require the City to change the zoning designation of any land in the
future.
   D.   Change Of Ownership:   
      1.   In accordance with Utah Code § 10-9a-532(2)(f), development
requirements, regulations, or controls described in a development agreement do
not run with the land and are enforceable only against the named parties to the
contract.   
      2.   If a Developer who becomes party to a development agreement is not
an individual (e.g., where the Developer is a partnership, corporation, LLC,
trust, or other entity), the development agreement shall remain enforceable
against the City only as long as the Developer, including any parent company,
is owned by the same individuals who owned the Developer at the time the
development agreement is entered into. Any change of ownership of Developer by
merger, acquisition, stock sale, redemption, or sale of more than fifty percent
(50%) of the Developer's assets shall, at the City's option, terminate the
development agreement and the Developer's rights and entitlements thereunder.
The City's option to terminate the development agreement for a change in
Developer's ownership may be exercised by the City Council and shall be
construed as an addition to any of the City's rights and remedies described in
the development agreement. The Developer shall not have a right to terminate
the development agreement in the case of a change of ownership described in
this paragraph.
   E.   Expiration: Each development agreement shall terminate no later than
ten (10) years after the day the agreement is executed. Upon termination of the
agreement, all vested rights under the agreement held by the Developer or other
private parties and concerning undeveloped or partially developed parcels shall
terminate. All vested rights under the agreement shall continue on fully
developed parcels. After the agreement terminates, the Developer may submit a
new Proposal to continue developing any undeveloped or partially developed
parcels. This paragraph shall be interpreted as an addition to any termination
effects or breach of contract remedies described in the agreement.
   F.   Milestones: To the extent described in a development agreement, the
City may require the Developer to meet certain milestones of development
completion as a condition of Developer retaining entitlements under the
agreement.
   G.   Amenities: To the extent described in a development agreement, the City
may require the Developer to construct certain infrastructure, improvements,
and community amenities and to do so prior to certain development phases. (Ord.
2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-9-5: CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL:
   A.   The City Council is solely authorized to enter into development
agreements with private parties and public entities:
      1.   Through a majority vote of the Council, evidenced by the Mayor's
signature on a Development Agreement Proposal;
      2.   Following a public hearing and recommendation by the Planning
Commission;
      3.   After reviewing any applicable staff reports;
      4.   After ensuring that adequate public notice was achieved for the
above actions;
      5.   After the developer has paid all fees and outstanding invoices from
the City; and
      6.   In accordance with Utah Code §10-9a-532, as amended.
   B.   The City Council may amend any Development Agreement Proposal before
entering in to the development agreement. The City Council may accept, revise,
or reject any Proposal terms suggested by a Developer, the Planning Commission,
or the TRC.
   C.   The City Council may review a Proposal indefinitely.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/602f4d307ee339a506b4081419c2722258509909/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2058.png]
 
(Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-9-6: REQUIRED RETAINER AND CITY REVIEW FEES:
   A.   A Developer seeking a development agreement shall be liable to
reimburse the City for the City's personnel costs incurred in reviewing and
revising Preliminary Materials and Development Agreement Proposals. The City's
personnel costs include the time of City employees and outside consultants,
engineers, and contractors, assessed at the City's standard hourly rates.   
   B.   Before the City reviews any Preliminary Materials or Development
Agreement Proposal, the Developer must:   
      1.   Provide a retainer to the City of at least twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00); and   
      2.   Acknowledge in writing the City's applicable hourly rates and
authorize the City to reimburse itself from the retainer at said hourly rates.
   
   C.   The Developer must promptly replenish the retainer to its original
amount at any time that the retainer decreases below four thousand dollars
($4,000.00). Unused funds shall be returned to the Developer at the time the
development agreement is signed or earlier at the Developer's request.    
   D.   The City's use of retained funds does not entitle the Developer to City
approval of any Proposal. In reimbursing the City under this Section and in
paying any other fee required by the City, the Developer proceeds at the risk
that the City may reject any Proposal at any time. (Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-9-7: OPTIONAL TERM SHEET AND CONCEPT PLAN/MAP REVIEW:
The Technical Review Committee (TRC), Planning Commission, and City Council may
produce or review Preliminary Materials and provide comments on the same to a
Developer. These Preliminary Materials and City comments on, concurrence with,
or suggestions based on the same shall not in any way be construed as binding
against the City. (Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-9-8: TRC REVIEW AND REPORT:
   A.   Upon the City's receipt of a Development Agreement Proposal, the
Technical Review Committee shall review the Proposal for feasibility and
desirability and compile all comments into a report for review by the Planning
Commission and City Council.
   B.   The TRC may discuss the Proposal with the Developer to request
information or suggest changes. The TRC may consider comments from outside
consultants contracted with the City and any City staff member or affected
entity.    
   C.   Once the report is complete, or upon request by the Planning Commission
or City Council, City staff shall schedule the Proposal for consideration at
the next Planning Commission meeting for which adequate public notice can be
achieved. (Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-9-9: PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall review all Development Agreement
Proposals and shall provide a recommendation on the same to the City Council.
The recommendation may be for, against, or for with modifications and must
include all written and oral objections received from the public.   
   B.   Before providing its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall hold
a public hearing and consider all written and oral objections received at the
public hearing. (Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-9-10: PUBLIC NOTICE:
All public meetings and hearings by the City to consider a Development
Agreement Proposal must be noticed as if the meetings and hearings were
intended to adopt or amend a land use regulation under Utah Code § 10-9a-205.
(Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
11-9-11: RECORDING:
City staff shall cause any fully executed development agreement to be recorded
in the County Recorder's Office. (Ord. 2025-09, 6-19-2025)
